ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e23	The representatives Erik Dalheim, Grethe G. Fossum, Bjørn Hernæs, Lodve Solholm, Inge Wohnning, Ingvald Godal, Tor Nymo and Arne Lyngstad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Rikke Lind For Oslo: Anders C. Shaastad and Dagny Gärtner Hovig For the North Trondelag County: Robert Eriksson For the Westfold counties: Trond Mathisen and Harald Solberg A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for the representative Anneliese Dørum from 10 October until further notice from the Norwegian group of the Interparliamentary Union to 104. Interparliamentary Conference in Jakarta, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, on the leave from 10 October to 20 October for the representatives of Karin Andersen, Ola T. Lånke, Kjellaug Nakkim, Astrid Marie Nistad, Torstein Rudihagen, Kenneth Svendsen, Marit Tingelstad and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from the representative Børge Brende on leave from 11 October to Thursday 12 October for participation in the EFTA meeting in Reykjavik from Trond Helleland on leave from Wednesday 11 October to Thursday 12 October for a seminar chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Copenhagen These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South Trondelag County, Borghild Winsnes Malum, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Ola T. Loaned leave from 10 October to 20 October due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Oge TovanFor Buskerud County: Hallgrim BergFor Hedmark County: Helge BjørnsenFor Nordland County: Hanne Dyveke Sweets HagenFor Uppland County: Terje Stenseng and Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Rogaland County: Helga RullestadFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Reidar SandalFor South Trondelag County: Michael Momyr and Øyvind HåbrekFor Eastfold County: Ole Kristian Kjølholdt3. Terje Stenseng and Kjell Ivar Fossnes are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Marit Tingelstad and Torstein Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e194	Åge Tovan, Helge Bjørnsen, Hanne Dyveke Sweets Hagen, Terje Stenseng, Kjell Ivar Fossnes, Helga Rullestad, Reidar Sandal, Øyvind Håbreek and Ole Kristian Kjöllhold are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e199	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinget meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e204	I suggest Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e209	Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e217	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e221	I suggest that students who take secondary education after a separate course should be entitled to shower in line with those who attend ordinary classes in secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e226	The representative, Jan Petersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e229	On behalf of Per-Kristian Foss, Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to allow for greater labour immigration and simplify the processing of work permits.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e234	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e244	Following a conference with the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate is held over two days, today and tomorrow, with a total speaking time of 7 hours and 5 minutes, excluding cord changes and 3-minute inserts. The number-time is distributed as follows: The Labour Party 165 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 60 minutes each, the Central Party 30 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 25 minutes, Left 15 minutes and the People's Party 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups and the Prime Minister and three lines with replies after speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more, as well as after the speeches of the Councils regardless of their length within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e257	The debate is one of the largest and most important debates of the year. To the extent that there is ample allocation of speaking time – the debate should go over two days – but despite this, the reply to the statements of the Councils is limited to three lines. It also limits the ability of the smallest batches to replicate. On that basis, I would like to suggest that it is also open to five lines after contributions from the Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e262	Is there anyone who wants to oppose this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e265	I think this is a strange proposal because the group leaders have discussed this for a long time and have had the same form for several years. That's the way parties get big, and sometimes they get small again. I don't remember that, sir. Enoxen was a bit of a positive because it was the opposite sign a few years ago, so I think it's a little remarkable that you're going to change the system as the growth of the Center Party or other parties and any falls. In particular, I think it is remarkable when we have so often heard that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party consider themselves to be a kind of block. Then it's entirely possible for the three batches within this block to distribute the lines that they'll get at all government councils. This is more of an internal center problem than what I think the Storting should change in relation to what has been agreed upon. I therefore recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote in favour of the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e270	The President will state that she has received the same enquiry that was now made by the representative of Enoxsen, also from the Socialist Left Party. The President has returned to the record of last year's throne debate, and there was no change in the line changes after the state councils. Then there were also three lines following the articles of the Council of State. But the President will, of course, leave the majority in the Chamber to decide on this matter. The president asked as openly as she did about who was opposed to this proposal, since she has received two such enquiries. Is it other than Carl I. Hagen who is opposed to the proposal that came from Odd Roger Enoxen? - It's not. The President will, of course, maintain his proposal. As far as she understands, Carl I. Hagen has been supported, and we take up the Enoxsen proposal against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e284	Then there will be five lines also after the statements of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e287	In the first debate on the throne of the new century, I think it is gratifying that we in Europe are seeing that we are likely to have a new democratic state. What has happened in Yugoslavia by the fact that the elected president now also becomes president of the country is joyous. Of course, we all hope that development will go in a really democratic direction. We'll be able to see that when it comes to elections in a new national parliament. Of course, democratic development is joyous, especially for all the surrounding countries and for Yugoslavia itself. However, this development needs to be monitored. I count on and hope that the neighbouring countries that have felt threatened by the army of Milosevic can now gradually regain security, so that there is peace and tolerance. What is now happening will hopefully be comparable to what happened in Europe in 1945, when people from Norway, who had fled to many other countries, could return with joy. We fully support the lifting of sanctions and hope that trade and relations will strengthen democracy in Yugoslavia and allow refugees from neighbouring countries and Yugoslavia themselves to return to their homelands as soon as possible in order to build them up. However, it is particularly important to follow developments in Kosovo, where we hope that the new president will follow up on the hopes of international society. I would also like to add that there will well be an important milestone in the settlement of the previous regime, that Milosevic will also be brought before the Court of Justice in The Hague. In recent years, considerable concerns have been raised in Norway regarding the development of integration policies and attitudes in immigrant environments. Even before last year's throne debate, there were revelations of forced marriage, how many Norwegian youths were forced into marriage against their will. This time it is the ‘state of the kingdom’s’ revelations of grotesque circumcisions, bodily damage, which is punishable, that rebel against the Norwegian people. This should mean ending the naive and blue-eyed integration and immigration policy that the majority of this room has supported. On behalf of the Party of Advancement, I made the following proposal last year: «The government is asking the Government to base its integration policy on the fact that oppressive traditions and cultures cannot be accepted in Norway.» And intersection is a cultural phenomenon, a traditional phenomenon, not a religious one. Nevertheless, all of the other parties voted against our proposal, and one of the results is that there has been no fight against these oppressive traditions. We hope that the other parties are now becoming more responsive to a sensible integration policy. In this situation where we have started to see some practical problems arising from the light immigration policy, and where Danish Minister of the Interior Karen Jespersen recently said that she found dangerous features in the lack of integration of immigrants, we should also take note of this and put in place a new integration policy, and we will be promoting proposals for a new communication on this. It is also remarkable that the Right Leader, Jan Petersen, is now proposing something that really means free immigration. Circumstances if you want to find a home or a job in Norway are so obvious that what the Right proposes is actually free immigration. We see no reason for this in the Progress Party. The fact that some employers, of which the government is one, do not want to pay market wages and that health services do not want to pay the wages needed to attract labour may not be a reason for importing cheap labour. At the time of the EEA negotiations, there was a danger known as ‘social dumping’. One must also consider the consequences if there is to be free immigration – 40,000, says the Director, plus family reunification: how will the impact on the housing market be? The cost of providing a place to live too much over 40000 per. more than years will destroy the economy of many young people today in terms of finding a home. We want to claim that by reorganizing ourselves in Norway, we can free up labour. We know that in our food production through efficiency and rationalisation over time, we can reduce the need for labour. We know that we're an over-administered country, we have a bureaucracy similar to a country of 20 million. citizens need. By changing laws and regulations and allowing people to decide more themselves without having to apply for exemptions, concession, permission, permission, permission, we can reduce the need dramatically, and if we get the county council closed, we will also release labour. We have also seen that it is claimed that the Labour Market Act says they do things they don't do, and if we only allow private employment services in the case of normal employment services, which have nothing to do with those who are on measures and those who are disadvantaged in some way, we can release quite a few thousand in the Labour Market Act. So there's a lot of things we can do to make better use of the labour force in Norway than we do, and it'll be our alternative to look at the supply page instead of what Right wants to open up for free immigration. The most disappointing thing in the census is the lack of the most necessary reforms in Norway. And there are three areas I want to take for granted. It is a state assumption of financial responsibility for the education sector, for health care and for care of the elderly. In the case of school, there are a lot of reports that testify to shortcomings and problems, as well as that costs per year. students vary from some and thirty thousand DKK per student. year to SEK 110 000 per year. years. A uniform financing based on unit prices, graduated according to where in the country it is and how pig-grown it is around, will ensure that the Stortinget gets the full and full responsibility for the school. Today, the school is a caste ball where municipalities that don't grant enough, possibly because they build cultural houses, cinemas and town halls instead of maintaining school buildings, owe it to the state, and the state owes it to the municipalities. The game that has been going on for so long should be replaced by a state acquisition of the funding of the schools. And we think that schools are more important than, for example, schools. the school leave scheme. There we think it would be natural for the government to follow up its own desire to let the municipalities decide more on their own, i.e. that it is not an earmarked grant. It should be for school activities. The school leisure system should also be included as part of the framework transfer to municipalities, so that the municipalities that want it, and of course there are many good reasons, can organise good school leisure arrangements. But it should be a municipal task. As far as health services are concerned, it is despite the fact that we are probably the richest country in the world, still the shortcomings that strike us in the eye. Also in that area there is a struggle between county municipalities and state. That is why we want to be given an overall state responsibility for all healthcare. It should not depend on which county you live in, whether you receive the necessary operation and treatment or not. In that country, all should enjoy the same rights to the necessary health care. I would like to add that within the hospitals it is fully possible if they get something more money, to hire office staff and service staff to take over the office jobs that doctors and nurses do today. There is a lack of money, said Director Schrøder at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø when it came to making better use of the resources and increasing the activity. We think it's sad that the government's answer is not a better funding to any particular extent compared to this year, and that it is to be paid in the form of increased self-esteem of sick people. We also saw in the News of the Day yesterday that the Government will increase the proportion and make it more difficult in terms of rehabilitation institutions, precisely what could cause people to come back to work instead of going over to disability, which is far more expensive. It's a pointless policy the government adds up to there, and it's heartbreaking to hear sick people say they have to stop medical treatment because they can't afford the props, which we've now witnessed to in many places. It's a situation that we won't accept. The world’s richest countries must be ashamed of themselves if we do not ensure that sick people receive the necessary medical treatment, and those who are disabled, who have been hit by traffic accidents, cannot afford to train our rehabilitation institutions. We also want to say that when we have a glittering foreign economy, we've got a hundred billion more than estimated in income just this year, we have to be a little bit more generous in terms of which drugs are printed on blue prescriptions, which are funded by popular fear. Most medicines are produced abroad, and there is no pressure in the economy if the sick and chroniclers can get more medicines on blue prescription. In the case of care for the elderly, part of it is under development. I am pleased that the government has now joined the Progress Party when we got the older package adopted some years ago, and has increased the number of seats by 5,000. That is exactly what the Progress Party proposed when the older package was introduced. However, we still feel that we should strengthen care for the elderly much more quickly and much better. We know that many municipalities are in the process of assessing the establishment of care services for the elderly in other countries, based on the voluntary nature of older people, including those with disabilities. It is claimed that there is a shortage of staff in Norway. It should be put on the agenda that the State does this instead of the municipalities, and we have made proposals from the Party of Advancement, which is under consideration, on a state-owned health care company to establish nursing homes and nursing homes in other countries, because it is also not inflationary. The government finances I mentioned briefly. We have a glittering economy, 12 pst. GDP surplus according to the Maastricht criteria, while other countries are struggling to keep below a deficit of 3pst. The challenge should then be: how are we going to use our revenues for the benefit of the Norwegian people? Of course, we're not going to put the economy under control, but it's completely possible to evaluate how we can organize ourselves to make the Norwegian people feel better. There is at least no reason to increase taxes and taxes for the most people, as the Government actually adds to its budget. We will, of course, come back to that during the budgetary procedure. And when, in the year 2000, – in the current year – we have received about DKK 100 billion more than estimated, we should at least, as the Progress Party has proposed, have granted 2,000 million. kr to hospitals, so that they can cancel their deficits, and obtain funds that they can use in a reasonable way to obtain full use of capacity in hospitals. We have long queues. At least then we have to be able to buy treatment capacity in other countries, and I have already suggested that an office be set up to purchase the necessary medical treatment and operations in other countries, so that we can bring down the cows as quickly as possible and get people back to work instead of being in a hospital queue. We have proposed to spend $3 billion – 3 pst. – of the extra income we have this year. Only 3 pst. will be able to get many people out of line and for medical treatment in hospitals in Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Scotland and Sweden. That will improve the situation for the inhabitants. Sometimes it seems that the government has forgotten that they are supposed to represent the inhabitants and not just people who look down on the inhabitants and scabbards and choose with them. It is said that oil money cannot be used to a large extent, but oil money is no different from other money. I would like to mention that we have looked at, among other things. Alaska. Alaska has the same situation that we have. There they distribute a profit from the return of their oil fund to the population. All residents of Alaska are paid NOK 17 000. I'm aware that it would make a finance minister here stagger, but there are ways to do it so that the population can benefit from what we have. So this pressure in the economy. Usually, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister say that if we use oil money, it becomes price growth and cost growth. They say that if people get better advice, they'll increase their purchases. The demand for labour will then be increased and the wages and costs of enterprises will be pushed up. It might happen in five – six months in case, and what is the Government's answer? Yes, they are entitled to and increase the costs of enterprises with an exceptional employer’s fee of 1.5 pst. The entire government's argument is then gone, for now they themselves immediately propose to do what it says is to reduce taxes and taxes or increase some appropriations for health and care for the elderly. It doesn't make any sense. The government warns against interest rate increase, but the government and the finance minister have no credibility. Last year, when the Workers' Party and the Bondevik government made the state budget for 2000, it was to prevent interest rises the most important thing. We've now had four increases in interest rates. The central bank manager indicates that this is due to inflation trends. We claim that inflation will be mitigated by reducing taxes in particular. Then you won't get any inflationary pressure, but a lower inflation, which will also give you hope for an interest rate reduction. We have proposed to significantly reduce the diesel tax and the petrol tax, so that we get a price in the pumps of between 6,50 and 7,00 kroner. What the government has proposed does not even bring the price down to the level this government and the previous government thought was a reasonable petrol price. It was NOK 8.90 when the Bondevik government and the Workers' Party made a budget. It is not the case that there are reductions in fees. In fact, there is no need to increase the price of petrol in Norway. We've been against that. It has led to the withdrawal of purchasing power, increased inflation and is also one of the reasons why we have just received an interest rate increase. If we had also gone in to reduce the tax on wages and salaries, we would have avoided the costs that came from the last part of the payroll. Reducing the cost to business of limiting taxes makes sense. We will also be allowed to mention the electricity charge this time. All these current charges and this inflation also have to be paid by the minimum pensioners. It is not the case that the rich are being hit through the tax increases — on the contrary. All those with a weak economy will notice the inflation effect of the government's arrangements, and the minimum pensioners do not benefit from any minimum deduction from the tax changes. Let me also mention that in the census I missed a real drive and fight against the growth of crime. We have repeat crime, and we shoot each other on the open street in Oslo, and yet there is no radical increase in police resources. You want to remove the helicopter service you've had in the eastern part of the world, instead of going radical in and increasing the penalties, refurbish the police and the judicial system so that we can react to criminals as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, almost nothing happens, and we find that disappointing by the Government. And let me end by saying that it is disappointing that it seems that the Labour Party – the government party – will once again throw Norway into a new EU debate. I believe that the Norwegian people are tired of fragmentation, quarrelling and fighting about our relationship with what is now emerging as the United States of Europe. There can be no reason to open up a new debate until the people themselves want it. There is no demand in the population for a new EU debate. The people are satisfied with the situation and respect the outcome of the referendum. That should also be done by the Government Party, especially now that the EU is changing its character to become the United States of Europe. Then we should say like that: now we leave it until the people say something else. We should be satisfied and concentrate on maintaining the EEA Agreement, which gives us a share in the important internal market. It is a much more sensible policy than the Labour Party now proposes, namely to open up a new EU debate, a new division of the Norwegian people. It cannot serve long-term Norwegian social interests. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: 1st@item: inlistbox ‘The government is asking the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the health care system in the country.’2 ‘The government is asking the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the care services of the elderly in the country.’3 ‘The Government asks the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals to enable the State to assume direct financial responsibility for the education services in the country.’4 ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a new integration message, including: based on the unacceptable acceptability of oppressive traditions and cultures in Norway.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e357	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e362	Also in his article in the debate on the throne today was Carl I. Hagen on the subject of how we facilitate the use of the resources that Norway has, primarily through the fact that we have become a major petroleum nation. And it's really with interest and not least amazement that I've noticed how Carl I. Hagen's use of these oil money has changed over the 1990s – from being the one who would spend the least of all, to being the one who's willing to spend more and more. In the 1991 financial debate, Carl I. Hagen said: ‘What is totally reprehensible and immoral is that this Greatness determines what the money of future generations is going to do.’ The year after Carl I. Hagen's scepticism deepened, and he said in the financial debate: «We have been saved so far by oil revenues, but our irresponsible economic policy, in which we are in reality becoming increasingly dependent on the oil price and the dollar price, is getting worse.» During the election campaign in 1997, the wind had turned upside down. Then the Progress Party and Hagen wanted to spend more money. They promised cheaper petrol, more money for hospitals, for schools, for the police – everything by spending more oil money. Almost two years after – the autumn of 1999 – the wind had turned around again, for then Carl I. Hagen proposed here in Stortinget to legislate on a ban on using money from the oil fund. In other words, Hagen wanted to impose a ban on a policy he wants to pursue today, because now – one year after – the wind has turned for the fourth time. Carl I. Hagen has once again signaled that he wants to spend more oil money than anyone else. So, in 1991, Hagen would not spend more oil money, in 1997, he promised to spend more money than all other parties, in 1999, he wanted to legislate against spending money from the oil fund, and in 2000, he says again that he wants to spend more money. My simple question is: what will be the policy of the Progress Party in this area until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e384	I thank you for that question. It was almost pre-ordered, because I had thought to say something about it in my post, but I did not. Firstly, 1991, it was ten years ago. Then we had a completely different economic situation, we had a completely different labour market situation, we were getting higher unemployment, and we were doing the biggest bank job of the century – as the majority in this room has done. Today I think we should look a little bit ahead, and there is a relatively clear consistent line in the Progress Party. We've always said that we want to move towards a fund-based people's security system, and we've always said that oil revenues must benefit the Norwegian people. In 1997, when we also received unexpected income, we proposed buying hospital equipment, purchasing cars for the police and buying other things from abroad that did not create domestic pressure, and we will repeat that later this autumn, so there is no change in our situation. And then to the Constitutional Bill: It's clear that if today we transfer what constitutes the state budget's payment of pensions – let's say we transfer 50 billion dollars in pension payments from the state budget to, as it says in our Constitutional Bill, being paid out of the oil fund and the National Fund's return, and possibly from the fund, we will release the corresponding 50 billion dollars in the government budget that can be used for tax and tax relief or other additions. We cannot spend money twice, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg has said several times. He must realize, then, that if we suddenly save a payment on the ordinary state budget – just to take an example, 50 billion kroner – and all the revenue in the state budget is there, we have strengthened the ability to do other things. There's no difference. You have to be Prime Minister or Minister of Finance in Norway in order not to understand anything so easily!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e393	It's always exciting on the right of the representative Carl I. Hagen, as well today. But I would like to repeat the question that Hill-Marta Solberg asked. If the Progress Party meant something about the Constitutional proposal, that one could not use this money for anything else, how could one say afterwards that it can still be? This doesn't hang up in a bunch. I have an additional question, and it's up to the North Norway bill. There is no doubt that we must take seriously the draft budget submitted by the Progress Party. There has been a suggestion to remove the North Norway bill, and one has also proposed halving support for agriculture. Is it possible to do this without the dramatic consequences of district policy? I thought Carl I. Hagen had to answer that. Similarly, what is the reality? It was first said that one should remove the North Norway bill, and then one was not sure what one meant. We could also take up the u-help, we could raise a number of other issues – areas where there is a difference between the Christian People's Party's policy and the Progress Party's policy. But I want to end up asking a positive question, because we also need to work together on important things. The Labour Party Government has again attacked the third sector — the voluntary sector. Can we count on Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party supporting a strengthening of the voluntary sector? If he cuts into the bishops of the public hill, will he join in taking them away? Is he cutting off social and humanitarian work? Will the Progress Party be involved in a policy that will make the third sector important in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e402	As far as the last question is concerned, I can at least confirm that we in the Progress Party have always been positive to the voluntary sector. We have always, when we are going to have something done, paid by the public, said that if there are non-governmental organisations or private organisations and institutions that can do the work, we prefer it rather than employing more people in public – so we have had a positive attitude towards this sector. But we will not now be able to respond to the details of the subsequent state budget treatment in terms of the individual objectives. In the case of care, I'm sure Mr. Lilletun that a few years ago we suggested that it should be a right under our social law and funded as a disease treatment. In the case of our Constitutional proposal – one more time: What we have said is that the payment of pensions is to be made after we have completed the development of a fund scheme. Law changes and a lot more are needed to get this in place. That's the principle we've been talking about. In the draft Constitution that has been resubmitted, we have written a few sentences so that these misunderstandings that you choose to pass on are removed. When the payments of pensions financed today by social contributions and ordinary taxes and taxes are transferred from the State budget and financed by the income of the oil and public funds and any fund, we still have social security income and VAT revenue, and that, of course, makes it possible to use the money that goes to pensions today for something else. It's quite possible, and then we have to keep the payment of pensions from the oil fund. But there are many changes in the law that have to be made before that. It's made a big, new system, we've established a principle, and it gives us full freedom of action in the other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e411	Now it's time to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e414	In the case of the North Norway grant: [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e419	Yeah, we'll see what Hagen and the Progress Party are doing this year. In any case, I note that the Progress Party, through its response to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg, has stated that in 1991, when we had the highest unemployment rate in the post-war period, the Progress Party would not use five more ears to combat unemployment. In 2001, where we do have at least the lowest unemployment in Western Europe, there will be an additional billions. It's okay to see that at least it's a policy. I disagree with it, and I disagree with the effects of it. So to something where I agree more with the representative, Hagen, that lack of labour has to be met with several kinds of measures: reducing the tax on work so that more people will also work full time and more overtime, better and more efficient the circulation of labour and reducing the drop-out – that is, not Hagen so explicitly – what happens through disability, sickness, early retirement, etc., and keeping people in the labour market longer. But then everyone who has the shoe on – to use an expression Hagen has used many times – the businesses and the labour market movement, says that we need to also open up so that more people can come to the country if they are needed, and if they can be secured jobs in this country. The companies are asking for it, while Hagen says no. Those who wear the shoe know where it presses, and they underline the need. Hagen sees another way. The garden used the expression heartbreaking in its post. I would like to ask if the representative Hagen agrees that it is also heartbreaking when a disabled person in a municipality in Sørlanden with zero leave after many years has not completed a post as a personal assistant to the disabled person, can get a foreign employee to take the job. Unfortunately, he comes from a non-EU country and therefore does not have access to the state to fill such a job. Is it heartbreaking? I'll put that to Mr. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e430	Per-Cristian Foss says we're going to throw out another billion, it sounds like this is a shellfish thing. I'd like to name it. What we are saying is that we should reduce some taxes: petrol taxes, diesel taxes, electricity taxes and other taxes, and perhaps consider a reduction in the VAT on food. It's going to lower inflation, it's going to lower prices, and most people get access to some increased purchasing power. Is it wrong for Norwegian citizens to get a little better advice? Is it wrong that those who have very bad advice today get some price reductions? We don't understand that -- that everything should be put in shares in Chase Manhattan Bank instead of dampening inflation so that we might get interest. Because that's what the governor is talking about. So we want the Norwegian people to benefit from better advice, and we find that Foss disagrees with that. There's a lot we can do on the labour market. We will rationalize a lot just by getting the full outsourcing of publicly paid services. I have mentioned some sectors and can include the energy sector and the transport sector – make it competitive as an instrument that reduces costs and makes better use of resources. Director Schrøder at RiTø has said that if they have more money, they have the people who can do the jobs. But they do not have the money to pay, and they do not have the money to upgrade jobs from half a day to full day. By getting that money, we're making better use of the workforce than we do today. In the case of disabled people: Yes, we have to invest a lot more in rehabilitation, building up many of the people who are currently ill-satisfied and who have a residual labour force they would like to use. That's why we can't shut down the CatoCenter, which the government's budget might lead to. The same applies to Red Cross Haugland Rehabilitation Centres in Sogn and Fjordane. There's a lot we can do, but it costs money to generate the workforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e439	In most of the polls in the last few months, the Progress Party has been the largest party in the country, and that is why there is every reason to keep track of what the party is doing and what it stands for. There is a reason to ask: how will the policy of the Progress Party affect the various parts of the country? According to the programme, the Progress Party will auction off the fishing rights and thus make the coastal population housed under foreign capital. Free imports of agricultural products will be allowed, agricultural aid will be halved and, in practice, Norwegian agricultural products will be phased out. You've been changing for and against the North Norway grant, even on the same day. In the morning, Carl I. Hagen was the North Norway grant, by contrast, because it was not based on objective criteria. At the same time, the Progress Party wants to open up a major urban grant, as if it were more objective. It is proposed and stands for dramatic redistribution between municipalities, where income from the small municipalities is taken and given to the larger municipalities. This means that there is less provision for the inhabitants of the municipalities. It's not like Carl I. Hagen says, that earmarking the transfers to the schools and to the health services will solve all of these problems. The municipalities also carry out a lot of other work: prevention for children and young people, drug prevention, cultural activities and transport. All of this will be affected by the arrangement that the Progress Party stands for. Social dumping calls Carl I. Hagen opening up labour immigration to a greater extent than we have so far allowed. At the same time, the Progress Party will remove tariff agreements and contribute to maintaining the settlement in District Norway by offering less pay to the district population, thus attracting businesses in District Norway. This is called Carl I. Hagen social dumping in other contexts. Lower pay for the rural population is what you have to offer. Or, as Carl I. Hagen also says to Today's Business 14th September: A bridge to an island society is in relation to investment in the road sector around Oslo, an example of unreasonable investment in relation to sensible investment. Where will Carl I. Hagen invest in District Norway? Is this Carl I. Hagen and the Progress Party having to offer District Norway? Natural rights shall be auctioned off to the highest bidder and the district population shall be made underpaid housekeepers under foreign capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e452	First just to a question from Per-Christian Foss that I forgot to answer or didn't have time to answer. Firstly, when it comes to the enforcement of Norwegian legislation, we do not want the Stortinget to handle the case. With regard to the companies that want cheap labour, I have no problem realizing that companies want access to cheap labour. But for once, workers in this country are now a little stronger. Instead of the fact that there are many applicants for few job vacancies, there are now more employers in line to hire an employee, and the employee is in a strong negotiating position. When the market wage is higher than it has been, we think the employees deserve a higher salary. For once, the workers are in a dream position, and then come right and want to import cheap labour – and I didn't, as Odd Roger Enoxen claims, use the terminology, I said it was the expression used in the fear of cheap labour in the EEA from other countries, and that's what the Right now wants: to import cheap labour to prevent wage increases for Norwegian workers. Otherwise, I just want to say that, sir. Enoxen may have to read a little bit more in our party program – not read it in a way that someone else reads the Bible and takes everything in the worst sense, but perhaps look at the best sense as well. We see it so that in the case of agriculture, rationalization is fully possible. Even Johan J. Jakobsen has admitted in this room that one can produce as much food in Norway as one third of the annual works. And if you added to a greater degree of processing agriculture, so instead of growing cereals in Norway, you put a little bit more on grass and imported power supplies than we can make ourselves, if we started a little bit larger in the production of meat products and other food products, it's clear that we could compete in many ways with Denmark. So there's a lot that can be done in Norwegian agriculture. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e461	We might be able to enjoy Hagen's economic theories and his leap back and forth in terms of the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy, if it hadn't been because this is gambling with the fate and well-being of a lot of countrymen. In 1991, when unemployment was high, Hagen thought it was morally irresponsible to spend more money in the economy. Then more money would mean more employment and more value-making. Today, the Norwegian economy is under pressure. Today, in order to accommodate the necessary health, education and welfare tasks, it is necessary to provide room for someone to do the job and work there. In that situation, it's using the unimpaired more money to cope with the values we're looking for to solve. In 1992, Hagen’s moral infection against the use of oil money was reinforced by an increasing dependence on oil prices and dollar rates. Yes, what are we today? What is the reason why the revenues are as high as they are? Is that the pension income that Hagen now wants to make more dependent on the oil price and the dollar price, or are there the areas of deficit in the government budget where we others are trying to clear up room for an extra effort? Hagen's economic theories change from time to time, but it's also hard to bear for the welfare of most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e470	Let me remind you again about the economic theories of the Labour Party Government and the Bondevik Government – we have seen how they work in practice – that they said the most important thing was to have a tight budget that prevented interest rate rise. We have had four increases in interest rates, and then I think the Workers' Party should be a little more careful in teaching others about economic theories. And I have said that lower taxes and taxes will just dampen the price and cost growth – a price and cost increase that the Government also warns against in its throne speech, but which they do not follow up. So for the risky and unimpeded use of oil money. GDP, the total economy is probably about $1,200 billion. 10 pst. Of that, 120 billion dollars, 1 pst. is $12 billion. I should like to see the company or the family that would claim that if you use 1 pst, you're going to override everything. or, where appropriate, more rationally. This dramatic exaggeration! 12 billion kroner would be about changing the budget in relation to GDP, i.e. an economic impact of 1 pst. It's remarkable how you have faith in economists who have gradually proved that they're making mistakes through the interest rate increases we've been given. So the fact that you have to be kind of dependent on the oil price and the course. Of course you're not, because the oil price and the dollar price have no effect either on the Social Security Fund or on the Oil Fund. It's the oil that's in the ground and that's to be sold, it has an impact, and where gambling Norway more than most others by selling everything in the spot market and everything is in dollars. But it's strange that we've never spent as little oil money as we have now – NOK 12 billion. A few years ago, there were 35 and 40 billion oil crowns that could be used. And what Jens Stoltenberg and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen are actually saying is that we should never use the oil money. Because if we have full employment, and if we've used all the resources, that means we can never use oil money. That's why I say that the challenge is, how are we going to spend oil money in a sensible and sound way, so that Norwegian society and its citizens get an advantage from it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e482	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e485	While the Norwegian uprising gathers for wide-ranging debate on the Government's tenor and home challenges, dramatic events take place in Europe and in the Middle East. The images that last week rolled over the TV screen from Yugoslavia and from the Middle East have made a strong impression on a lot of us. The victory of the democratic opposition over the dictatorship in Yugoslavia gives rise to optimism and hope. There were not many who just a few weeks ago dared hope for such a peaceful takeover of power as the one we have seen. Now it's up to you to back up on the democratic forces. But while a peaceful revolution takes place in Yugoslavia, we experience that the Middle East is again on the brink of war. The scenes of violence are cruel. Last Sunday, a 12 - year - old Palestinian boy was shot by Israeli soldiers. No one who saw the pictures of Mohammad who died in his father's arms can forget it. Many suggest that many years of peace work has suffered a severe setback. However, the international community cannot and does not give up. Nor is Norway. The Workers' Party will continue to contribute to international work for democracy and for peace. International solidarity has a significant place in the Labour Party's policies. Another good example of this is the vaccination programme for children in poor countries. The languages of the throne, which are debated for two days here in the hall, point out a clear course. In the presentation, many of the comments were pending, as it used to be. Many would see the follow-up to the state budget before they were sure of what the Labour Party government would want. Now this is known. The Labour Party will have a fairer distribution and social cohesion. That's why those who have a lot have to do more, and those who have a little, have to do better. The proposals for such a priority are on the Storting Table. Changes in the tax system shall promote fair distribution and efficient use of societal resources. A stronger involvement in housing policy is announced, with particular emphasis on helping young people enter the housing market. The census also offered increased income to municipalities and greater freedom to design policies according to local needs. Local democracy needs to be strengthened – decisions should be made where people work and live. This will be done by the Workers' Party, and now there is a proposal on it in the Stortinget. Increased efforts in the health sector are absolutely necessary. The government of Stoltenberg has therefore proposed the purchase of new hospital equipment, the expansion of cancer care and an increase in psychiatry capacity. The care of the elderly must also be strongly developed. The working party will continue to expand the kindergartens so that everyone will have an offer, and we want the kindergartens to be cheaper. Now this is proposed for Stortinget. For a long time we have discussed how to strengthen the school, not least by ensuring good learning skills. The Labour Party government has done something about it. These proposals give the Government's policy a clear profile: more health and care, better education, more kindergartens, a social housing policy. Good development for municipalities’ economies, reduced fuel costs, important value creation programmes in both agriculture and aquaculture are good rural policies. This has been proposed by the Government of the Workers' Party. On environmental issues, the main conflict between the centre and the Working Party is the exploitation of gas power. Here we disagree. But in budgetary policy, there is no great distance from this year's budget as the centre presented, and the Labour Party has proposed for next year. Enterprises and policies have several points of contact: the size of the budget adopts the annual government budgets; the authorities lay down the legal and regulatory framework; fiscal policy forms an important part of the business environment. Business leaders have often called for political prudence and have been eager to point out that government intervention can harm business and the reputation of business abroad. There is even a time when some people get out of the harvest hunt to tell us politicians that we need to show moderation in budgetary policy. Now there's a reason to turn this call around. Disclosures show that the top managers themselves need a reminder that their personal pay and contracts can have negative consequences for Norwegian business. Greed among managers expressed through options and parachutes may lead to several years of moderation turning to rage among employees. Such behaviour by business leaders may also weaken Norway’s reputation from abroad. The government has announced stricter rules. Then, through their own behaviour, the leaders get rid of the doubt that their own profits are sometimes more important than the interests of businesses and customers. Over many years, our country has been governed by minority governments, governments that have not had a clearly defined majority behind them in the Great Britain. It also characterises the current parliamentary situation. No one has any expectations that the two-day throne debate will change this. I dare say that this debate is not guaranteed to end in clear political promises. I will allow myself to point out what I think are political realities. It is a majority in the UK that wants a policy for better distribution, which wants to improve the economy of municipalities, which will give priority to health and care, education and international solidarity. It is the central parties, the Workers' Party and the SV that constitute this majority. Representatives of the central parties have pointed out on many occasions that good distribution policies can best be implemented at the intersection between the centre and the left side of Norwegian policy. I agree with the heart. Then it should also be a common task to reach agreement, as we did last year. The working party invites you to such a process. I have, of course, also noticed all the statements on what the opposition disagrees with regarding the policy of the Labour Party Government, and of course a debate on the throne will also raise such disagreements. But it also has to be that the same majority of people have to work together on good income solutions if they are to agree on how to use the money. If you want to help improve people's daily lives through fairer distribution and bet on public welfare, you also need to be able to solve the groups through negotiations on the income side. I would also like to point out that several of the Government's proposals regarding the state's revenues are related to proposals that the central parties themselves have promoted. The first weeks of this autumn, the political debate focused mainly on opinion polls, now the content of the policy is on the agenda. If political issues are put ahead of political tactics and games in the coming weeks, the Stortinget will be able to find good solutions this fall as well. The Labour Party Government has chosen a clear policy direction through the priorities pursued. Today's newspaper editor writes: ‘A change of pace is underway. It has been a long time since a government has presented a budget with such a clear political profile.» This is not the only quote that can be obtained that characterizes the policy of the Labour Party government in such a way. The Labour Party does not believe that political solutions in which the Progress Party has a decisive influence will give more fairer distribution or more investment on common resources, nor will there be room for international solidarity. The parties which, on the other hand, agree on such priorities should, in my view, be able to make use of their majority through negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e545	I agree with Hill-Marta Solberg that the budget presented has a clear profile – a clear political old-socialist profile. I have also noticed what she said when it was about minority governments, and we have noticed that the Workers' Party has opened several times now to a majority government. Then I would like to ask: is it so to understand that in the Workers' Party it is now being worked to extend the current government with the natural cooperation parties, according to the profile presented in the budget, namely the Central Party and SV? If the Central Party and SV come on board the government of Stoltenberg, they'll make sure it's a majority government. Is this a solution to this instability of minority governments that Hill-Marta Solberg can see? Then it will be exciting to see what happens to the modernisation policy that Prime Minister Stoltenberg has launched, but which at the moment seems to have gone into the forgotten book. So I would like to ask Hill-Marta Solberg this question: when will it be time for the oil fund to be used to secure the payment of pensions? It has been claimed by both the Government and the Workers' Party that a large reserve fund has been set up to secure future pensions. In what economic situation for the country of origin is it obvious that you can start using this money, for example. for pensions? As long as we have full employment, low inflation, stable economy based on the mainland economy alone – because that is what it is actually about to do – what are the economic parameters, what are the objective criteria for the time when the Labour Party sees the Norwegian people getting an advantage from the oil fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e554	First, I would like to say it is nice that the representative Hagen also makes it so clear that the employee party's profile is clear and clear in the manner that we have presented to Stortinget. I think that's important to notice. Then the representative asks Hagen about the parliamentary situation and how the Labour Party views the possibility of majority rule. To that I would say that it is difficult to imagine it in the current period, not least because the Workers' Party takes seriously the fact that the central parties are an independent government option. We take that seriously. We believe them when they say that and also relate to them that way. It was also the case last fall when the central parties were put with the government and the Workers' Party, of course, was a government option, but we just as fully chose to meet the central government in a constructive way and find solutions to the challenges of the Storting. So we're not going to invite anyone into government, it would be to violate the central party's own profile where they stand out as an independent government option. So ask the representative Hagen when we're going to spend these oil money. I think it is necessary to stress this: we have since we started making money as an oil nation collected NOK 1100 billion. Of the 1,100 billion, we have already spent 800 billion dollars, to the joy of those who live today, to develop well-being, to secure many of the good sides that characterize Norwegian society. So it's not like a political majority in Norway didn't want to spend this money. And the Workers' Party has been involved. At the same time, we know that every year, the government builds up large liabilities, not least in terms of pension liabilities. This year alone, government pension liabilities increase by DKK 185 billion. We can just solve it by spending money on the future. The alternative is to treasure our children in the whole world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e568	On 9 March, the government of Bondevik raised an important environmental issue, emissions from polluting gas power plants, and the government of Stoltenberg took over. Since then, the Workers' Party has insisted that they still want to pursue responsible and sound environmental policies. Well, I think the Labour Party must realize that much of their credibility in environmental policy disappeared as of the decision of 9 March. When the construction of gaseous power plants increases emissions by 5 pst. Instead of having a reduction in line with the intentions of the agreements on which Norway is obliged, it is clear that the Labour Party has both lost its vision of environmental policy and lost its concrete grips. Now Hill-Marta Solberg repeats here that it's with the center parties the Labour Party wants a budget solution. The Prime Minister has also been involved several times. And she claims that it's just in the matter of gas power that the center parties and the Workers' Party really disagree with environmental issues. No, it's not that simple. In the Energy Communication, the Government of Bondevik presented a plan linking an increase in the electricity charge with a massive research and development of new environmental technologies and a commitment to new alternative energy sources. I would like to ask the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party: what concrete measures are there in this year's draft budget of the Labour Party Government? And what signals are given in this year's census that would hide an invitation to the center parties for cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e579	In fact, it was the central government itself who chose to get rid of the gas power business; it was none other than the government itself who formulated its cabinet question to the Stortinge; I don't think it was anyone other than the Prime Minister himself who wrote it. So it was a choice the center government itself took. So I actually mean, as I said in my post, that it's primarily in the question of gas power that the center and the Workers' Party separate layers; here we see differently how this works for the environment. In fact, there are little differences between the focus of budgetary policy on the environment and that of the Workers' Party. Just listen: we have agreed that the electricity tax should be increased because it is an environmental measure. We are proposing to reduce the fuel tax. It criticises the environmental movement because it is environmentally hostile, but this has also been endorsed by the centre parties. A few weeks ago, even Prime Minister candidate Bondevik was in doubt whether the Labour Party government was going to propose a sufficient reduction in these charges. In the budget of the Ministry of Environment next year, there is an increase of 80 million. kr. It is not dramatic, but it is an increase in relation to the budget that Mr Bondevik presented to the Stortinget. So it's true that it's a little bit smaller for an increment measure; 57 million. kr was the reduction in that area in spring. If it is that the dramatic difference between the structure of the Workers' Party and the arrangement of the Centre Government in the budget for the environment is about 57 million. It should be affordable, since the distance is not large at least, we must be able to see that. With regard to specific measures on the environment, I would also like to mention that the budget – this should not be a budget debate, I am aware of it – contains proposals, not least on the research side, to research on the reduction of the impact of CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e592	Since also Hill-Marta Solberg started talking about Serbia, let me just make a little comment. I think we're all very happy and enthusiastic about the development that's now taking place. But before we take it all off, let me remind you that what will be the test is the extent to which the Serbs are willing to implement a reconciliation policy in Kosovo. That's the test, and that's what we finally have to talk about. I've seen that a little bit from the sitting government. But then to my question. I agree that this budget, which the Government has now presented, has a clear political profile. Yes, it's the biggest tax increases in your memory, and they're largely focused on the business life we're going to live on. The reasons why the Government and the Workers' Party want to direct this fist towards the business community are beginning to emerge clearly. According to NTB, the Minister of Finance, following the presentation of the budget, said that ‘the cyclical tax will lead to less employment in the private sector’. And Kjell Opseth expressed the same thing in the newspaper on Saturday in a somewhat more popular order, where he said that if the process industry is not satisfied with the tax and tax arrangements of the Government, they'd rather quit people. It is an expression of a negative attitude towards our competitive business that the Right is strongly opposed. We believe that the current labour needs of society must be met by the type of action that the Right has put forward in a number of proposals, namely how to increase the number of workers in Norway. Along that line, the Workers' Party doesn't come, there's no suggestion here. Why does the Labour Party not have proposals for this, which is the most important measure in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e601	I very much agree with Petersen's first observation, and I am also sure that he did not refer to my post when he suggested that you should not take off. I expressed myself in the following way: that it provided a basis for hope. But then I want to use Petersen's words by saying that now neither the Right, nor the Business to the extent, should take off when it comes to the budget's tightening-up mechanism – I think that's very little basis for that. When the temperature is the same as in the Norwegian economy, and if we are to steer economic development through the budget, then we also have to be willing to use instruments that help to cool down. That's what the government has proposed. And this isn't dramatic. A majority in the Grand Duchy has done the opposite when it was necessary. When, in the early 1990s, we needed to stimulate the activity of the economy because unemployment was sky high and many wheels were still, we did the opposite. Then we reduced the employer’s fee for two rounds to stimulate activity. Now we're using a fee as an instrument to dampen, and I think our business life can handle that. The representative Petersen specifically mentioned the process industry. With the small reservation that the information I have is correct, let me take an example. For a long time, Elkem Aluminium Lake has experienced a monthly surplus of 40 million. kr. It's going very well. The effect of this fee means about 20 million. kr on an annual basis, i.e. less than half a month's profit. That is the situation in that establishment. So you should not take off – I support Petersen’s assessments – on this question either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e610	When we also take into account that the government is proposing an electricity tax in the same industry as Hill-Marta Solberg now mentioned, the picture looks different. Now it's known what the Workers' Party wants, said Hill-Marta Solberg in its introduction. There is no doubt that there are approaches to something that can be good in the budget submitted, but there is no doubt that there are many areas that need to be improved. In my opinion, the working party shows a complete lack of understanding that the values must be created before they can be distributed and before they can be consumed. It's the business community and to a very large extent also the small businesses in District Norway that have to pay a large part of the increased costs. There is also a strong depriority in this budget for District Norway, which the Workers' Party has carried out over the years, and for which this government has also made itself a spokesman. For example, priority is given to: appropriations for transport in the budget and also in the national transport plan in a way that is totally unacceptable in relation to districts. One can claim that in direct district appropriations, there is a growth of 7 pst. to the next year, but when you go into that proposal and see that a large part of the increase is actually going to go to the capital of an IT centre at Fornebu, you can see how far the Workers' Party's district bet goes. It promises cheaper meat and cheaper spirits without taking distributional and nutritional considerations, without taking into account the fact that well-known researchers claim that it will mean another 300 deaths per year. years due to alcohol damage. But my question to Hill-Marta Solberg goes anyway in relation to gas power plants. The working party came to the government on the decision to build highly polluting gas power stations. Now we know that we want to make this possible without setting requirements for clean-up and without setting CO2 emission requirements. It represents an increase of about half of the Norwegian car park. Who is going to pay this price? Where will the Workers' Party next come up with proposals for reductions to meet the Kyoto commitments? Who is going to take those loads when gas power stations are not going to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e621	I think we're going to have constant debates where the government's abducted and disfellowshipped governments have a lot of money in important areas when they're no longer in government offices. I allow myself to say that when the representative Enoch points to what the Workers' Party is doing for municipalities and for roads. It would have been timely to ask back. I mention municipalities, because it's something that's been important for the centre parties every year, and also for the Workers' Party in terms of district policy, it's progress in the municipal sector. The Government of the Workers' Party has put forward a scheme for the municipal sector which has not even dared to criticise the Centre Party. This is very important for rural development. Here, too, there are a number of other measures that are positive for development, which I had in mind in my speech, not least the programmes for value creation in the primary industry on which there are concrete proposals in the Stortinge to be dealt with here in the autumn. This is important. So I've registered that the central government that wasn't able to provide the transport plan has a lot more money for it now than the workers' party government has proposed. It's a matter we're going to deal with separately in Stortinget, and we're going to see what the result is. Enoxen's question was about gas power. Yes, the Labour Party Government believes that the emission permit we grant in terms of gas power is not contrary to the Workers' Party's commitment under the Kyoto Agreement. In fact, we believe that the use of gas power contributes to reducing emissions and is therefore actually an advantage for the environment. Here we disagree with the centre – I think we can see that. A second majority in the United Kingdom is responsible for the assessment of the use of gas power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e633	I scratch my fingers after moving on to the gas power debate, but I will leave it in this round and come back to it in my post later. I want to challenge Hill-Marta Solberg in terms of the situation in Palestine and Israel. She started her article by describing what we all saw, namely how a 12-year-old Palestinian boy was shot for an open camera. The reaction of the Norwegian government was to distance themselves from violence on the part of both parties, and one was left with the impression that there was a sign of similarity between Israel that shot children with sharp, and rock-throwing young people on the Palestinian side, that there was a sign of similarity between Israel that occupys parts of Palestine, and Palestine that is occupied. And it is strange to note that in the Norwegian debate Kåre Willoch and SV are asking for a clear message about who is responsible for the escalation of the conflict that is now taking place in the Middle East. This case has been two rounds in the Security Council. First came an opinion without a clear responsibility position with respect to the parties, but then there came a sharper protest against Israel, as Norway then says they support. During the evening, Norway may be a member of the Security Council. We may have a place around the table, but I wonder what kind of policy the Labour Party thinks Norway should lead if you get a seat in the Security Council. Is that supposed to be a back-up policy? Should it be that Norway will only dare to give clear information about who is responsible when others have gone ahead? Are we going to go to the Filtøfler in foreign policy, or are we going to dry to place responsibility where it actually belongs when it comes to the situation in the Middle East and in many other conflicts? I can understand that in a campaign you may have gone a little quiet in the doors, but you have nothing to do around that table if you don't dare use that chance for anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e642	I think nothing was more natural than to initiate my post in Stortinget today by pointing to exactly the events that we see take place outside the world, also in Palestine. And as I said, we're in a situation where the Middle East is standing and squirming and maybe is on the brink of war. In such a situation, there is a remarkable internal Norwegian debate on wording, whether opinions come before or after, etc. I think this must be a very typical Norwegian debate. And I am convinced that our foreign minister will come back to these things later in the throne debate. But let me make it quite clear: it is said by the Government at the Foreign Minister that it must be that the party that has the real heavy powers is also the party that has to take the heavy responsibility. There is no doubt that this has also marked the government's reaction. But as I say, this is a typical Norwegian debate. Then ask the representative Halvorsen what we're going to do with our place in the Security Council. I also think I should leave the big pieces of it to later in the debate and have the Foreign Minister deal with it. But I must allow myself to say that at least we must not sit here in the main hall and act as if we at a place where has become a nation among those who have veto rights. Of course, Norway will also have to interact with other nations there, otherwise we will achieve nothing at all. So I've also heard on the radio today that someone has called it a after-career role. I think that is very misleading about the role that Norway has played and is playing as the initiator of peace processes and as peacebrokers in a number of places in the world. So I believe that is an unjustified criticism of Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e656	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e659	At the same time as two major dramatic international events this year, Yugoslavia is becoming a democracy, and we are therefore once again in the process of achieving one Europe. In the Middle East, the conflict has seriously flared up again, the peace process has suffered a setback, and the danger is that it will be completely destroyed. Yugoslavia is a strong reminder that Europe is more than the EU. That should also make our domestic Europe debate more effective. Norway can be an active participant in processes in Europe without us being an EU member. At the same time, the euro vote in Denmark brings interesting perspectives: perhaps we will have an EU with a more differentiated development with different degrees of integration. There is good reason to follow these developments, but not reason to ‘stress’ the membership debate. Norway has played an important role in the Middle East peace process. It is now under test. The alternative can be cruel: Bloody conflicts – yes, in the worst cases, outbursts of war. Therefore, it is vital now that all international forces are put in place to stop the acts of violence and get the peace process back on the rails. It is far more important than the shout of one-sided condemnations. After just six months of new labor party government, there is a reason to ask: What program does this government have for its business? What did the Workers' Party want to achieve with the government change? Modernisation of general government was a major concern of the Government. So far, this has ended in an internal disagreement in the Workers' Party, as we have seen in the debate on the future of the county council, the ownership of hospitals and the organisation of petroleum management. It is unfortunate that the Storting must wait for the National Labour Party meeting to be presented to the Government's policy. The Thrones didn't make any sense. It contained other issues and attitudes that most people can end up about. It will be the content and follow-up of the individual case that says something about the politics of the Labour Party government. Just like the central government, the workers' party government is a minority government. As well as government as opposition must show willingness to cooperate to find solutions. The Christian People's Party enters this last year of the ageing period with the same attitude we have always shown: the will to cooperate across party boundaries. The Christian People's Party will primarily be involved in further developing cooperation between the centre parties. We want to look for solutions with other groups in Stortinget. We all have a responsibility for the country. But the center has no special responsibility for today's government. It's the other thing that has. We also go to elections next year with the center as government option. We've shown that the center is controllable. So the election result will show us what possibilities we get. The Centre Parties will set up a Joint Working Group to prepare and subsequently prepare joint comments on the Government’s long-term programme. The Christian People's Party is committed to securing the Norwegian economy as a basis for the further development of the welfare society. It should also have an impact on everyone's position on the budgetary procedure this autumn. But it is even more important to ensure society a safe value base that is sustainable for present and future generations. In a time of increased consumer mentality and materialism, I had expected the government to be more concerned with the need for valuable mobilization and ethical awareness. Here the Workers' Party is strikingly weak. There is clearly also a need for ethical awareness among business stops. The culture that has now again been revealed in recent days with lucrative arrangements for some business managers is in itself reprehensible and has a very unfortunate signal effect on the population otherwise. It is also unfortunate for the many business leaders across the country who make a great effort and have a sober lifestyle, that there will be such a negative stamp on business. Now business leaders are getting fixed up! The basic unity of society is the family. That it works is essential for the growth of children, yes, for the need we all have for care, contact and proximity. That is why family policy is so important. The Christian People's Party will continue to prioritise it. We are pleased that the Workers' Party now appears to have accepted that the cash support has come to stay. But we notice ambiguity in some statements by government members. Therefore, there is reason to ask: will the government party again attack this fair reform in connection with next year's roll-call elections? In the future, the Christian People's Party will give priority to the role of fathers in family policy. Therefore, the lot will work to extend the paper issue in connection with birth. It is an unworthy situation for our welfare society that 70 000 children live below the poverty line. In the context of the announced Action Plan for the Follow-up to the Centre Government's Equalisation Notice, I specifically ask the Government to draw up proposals for action to improve the situation of these children. In our values, respect for the individual human being and the human dignity is the very foundation. The right to life is the foremost of all human rights. We therefore propose that this right should also be enshrined in our constitution. The right to life applies to both the born and the unborn in our own and in other countries. That is why the fight against poverty is so important. Therefore, work on increased road safety is so important. That is why the fight against drug life is so important. And that's why the Christian People's Party will not settle for the fact that in our welfare society we still experience that about. 14,000 unborn lives are lost every year by abortion. Although there does not appear to be a majority for fundamental changes to the abortion law, we must continue to work with preventive measures as well as with relief measures to reduce the number of abortions. Respect for life must also be consistent with the new opportunities offered by biotechnology and genetic engineering. I have challenged the Minister of Health to discuss this and do not think that his position on, among other things, foetal diagnostics and research on abortions testify to a clear enough position on such issues. Bio- and gene policy also has a foreign policy side in relation to the EU Patents Directive. The government has warned that it supports the case of the Netherlands before the EU Court of Justice against this directive, but has at the same time indicated that if the Netherlands loses, Norway will implement the directive. This is a far too defensive attitude. The Patent Directive raises at least three key questions: Should it be possible to take patents on parts of the human body, as provided for in Article 5.2 of the Directive? Could the Directive allow international capital to control and drain genetic resources in developing countries? Will the Directive conflict with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity? It is not enough through the European Court of Justice to clarify only this last question. The first two objections are also so serious in themselves that Norway can take up the fight against the Directive on its own basis and, if necessary, oppose its implementation in Norway. Here the Government has a defensive attitude. Our companies are going to create the basis for our welfare society. Norwegian business has many challenges. One is the cost of transport. The distance to markets is often high. An industrial policy to facilitate the innovation, conversion and development of strong business environments must take this seriously. Enterprise policy must enable capital to reach the best investments, not help to lock them up in companies that may have a great past, but not an equal future. We need a more predictable industrial policy, which does not change significantly from year to year. Business needs a stable framework. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. The costs of Norwegian labour have been an important part of the motivation for the modality line. The government's budget, which is turning new costs into business, is countering this line. We don't know our future business. Which businesses, which industries will grow, which will slow down, we don't know today. But we know that knowledge and competence are crucial. Therefore, research and development is one of the most important things for our future well-being. The Labour Party government came to power because it will build polluting gas power plants in Norway, if necessary by weakening the pollution law. The government has now opened up the possibility for the two planned gas power plants in the West to emit as much destructive greenhouse gases as half of the Norwegian passenger car park. And they'll be able to do it for free. It is an environmental policy paradox that gas power plants are to emit gases that destroy the climate without paying, while Norwegian drivers are to pay for the damage they cause to the environment. There is no logic that the principle of «polluting» shall not apply to gas power plants. The construction of Norwegian gas power plants will lead to a sharp deterioration in Norway’s ability to meet its Kyoto obligations. In March, the Labour Party and the Right stated that the total emissions would fall internationally if we built Norwegian gas power plants. After a detailed procedure, the Government now states that it is ‘most likely’ that emissions will decrease. So the sloping security is gone. It is therefore all the more surprising that measures to reduce other Norwegian climate emissions are not presented at the same time, when such an increase from gas power plants is reported. There is also reason to question the government's handling of this matter. The SFT, which administers the pollution law, has not been able to assess the emission impact of the construction of gas power plants. Thus, the government is at risk of taking a decision contrary to the pollution law. In the government statement of the Stoltenberg government, it was a key element for Norway to be a leading country in environmental policy. Permitting highly polluting gas power plants is not very forward-looking. The Roman Empire was also astonishingly silent about the government's environmental policy. The budget is also weak on the environmental side. Increased electricity charges are not followed up as provided for by a strong commitment to renewable energy sources and alternative energy sources. The visions of the Government's environmental policy are gone. The government's environmental policy is not an invitation to cooperate with the centre. Let me end by saying the following about some important issues for the Christian People's Party: We are going to fight for a family policy based on freedom of choice for the young children's parents. The Christian People's Party will facilitate a forward-looking school. Children shall have good education and the ability to develop skills in a safe school environment. Norway is well advanced in the use of resources in health and care for the elderly. However, we need to develop this care further in order for sick and elderly people to have a better offer. Many today do not receive the treatment they are entitled to. In particular, it is important to focus on building up psychiatry, cancer care and investing in hospital equipment. The development of care for the elderly has come a long way and should continue to be a priority. All older people must be treated fairly. We have a common responsibility for that. Later speakers from the Christian People's Party will elaborate on these issues. Modernisation of the public sector is important. But this doesn't have to be reduced to just about structures and organization. A good and modern service is more about humanity and human dignity than about organisation and structures. That's why we need to focus more on what really matters to people. The important thing is to get the help you need when you need it. It's more important how we meet in the hospital than if it's the state or county that owns it. It is more important that someone who is old gets a bath more than once a month than if it is the municipality that owns the nursing home. Structures and policies have no value in themselves. They must have one goal: to serve the individual. We need a more humane society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e734	The representative, Mr Bondevik, used part of his intervention in this debate to reiterate the claim that the environmental credibility of the Workers' Party is low. When Bondevik is going to cover this, he comes back to the gas power case. Yes, let us again note that in view of the impact of gas power on the environment, the centre and the Working Party disagree. On the other hand, it becomes a little more difficult when the representative, Mr Bondevik, is going to make a concrete statement in other areas where there is a great deal of environmental disunity. It's been raining a half year since the central government went off. We run the country today after a government budget presented by the government of Bondevik to the Stortinget, which was adopted by a negotiated solution with the Workers' Party. Looking at the environmental effort in that budget, it is difficult to see that there is a great deal of distance from what the Labour Party has proposed in its next year. On the contrary, the differences are very small. The working party and the centre agree that it is right to increase the electricity charge. As I have said before today, reducing the petrol charge may of course have an environmental backside, but at that point Bondevik has stood out as one of those who were concerned that the Workers' Party was not willing to reduce the fee enough. So at last we end up there again that's the gas power issue this big criticism bottoms up in. But the Workers' Party takes the centre's environmental exposure seriously, and then my question is to the representative Bondevik: if it is then that Bondevik wants a stronger profile on the environmental side, where do the Centre parties intend to turn to the Stortinget if it is not to the Workers' Party? Does Bondevik see elsewhere in the Stortinget where solutions can be found to help improve the environmental profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e739	As far as environmental policy in general is concerned, it is probably right to say that it is the centre and the SV that have been largely the drivers and have a common policy. But we are fully aware that it does not provide a majority in the Stortinget, and that therefore we need to build wider alliances in order to get through. And it's not right, even though Hill-Marta Solberg repeats and repeats it, that it's just the gas power issue that separates the environmental policies of the Workers' Party and the Centre. It has been demonstrated in the past, and I would like to re-examine it and for more examples that there are dividing lines in environmental policy. What we had expected, but where the Workers' Party does not come up with anything, was a plan for how the Government sees fit to reduce CO2 emissions in Norway, which we have to do regardless of gas power plants or not, in order to meet the Kyoto commitments. As far as I can register, the Stoltenberg government does not have a single proposal for measures to reduce CO2 emissions in Norway after it has acceded. It has announced a future quota system, but no other measures have been put in place. We had actually expected that when the government now opens up to increase the CO2 emissions corresponding to half of the Norwegian passenger car park. That's an important point. The second point — and this is not inconsequential either — is the lack of coherence between the increase in electricity taxes and the increase in the allocation of energy sources and alternative energy sources. This is the first budget we are now going to deal with after the energy message was dealt with. The Labour Party and the Centre agreed on such a strong commitment to renewable energy sources, as we escalate the electricity charge. There is no trace of it in the draft state budget. It's on the ground. It's resting. This is a breach of the assumptions in the Energy Communication. Thirdly, public transport: what we are now experiencing is that part of the collective means of transport, such as: shall compete with high-polluting air traffic for an increased cost. This is bad environmental policy. So there are more lines between the environmental policy of the Centre and the Workers' Party than gas power – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e750	The purchase of medical and technical equipment for hospitals exceeds a five-year plan, where the State pays 60 pst. of the expenditure and counties 40 pst. It turns out, unfortunately, that the county councils do not have their share of it. I have attributed all 80 hospitals in Norway with questions about feedback on how much medical technical equipment has been outsourced for the current operating term. So far, I have received a response from 30 hospitals, and that is a sub-balance sheet of 700 million. in medical devices which the county councils have not been able to afford to acquire in the current year. 50 pst. of which this is the maintenance and replacement of old equipment which is more than 15 years old and should have been discontinued. The present state budget does not take into account the delays now experienced by hospitals, and it is, of course, directly fatal to operate with defective and old medical technical equipment. The need for medical and technical equipment is also important in order to increase the treatment capacity of Norwegian hospitals. This is pointed out by all the 30 hospitals I have received a response from. My question to the representative Kjell Magne Bondevik and the Christian People's Party is: Will the Christian People's Party be able to support the Progress Party's proposal to provide more money for medical-technical equipment for our Norwegian hospitals in the current year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e759	I agree with the representative Alvheim that equipment acquisition for our hospitals is one of the highest priorities of health policy. After all, it was the central government that, in addition to the psychiatry plan and the cancer care plan, presented the equipment plan, which will last for more than five years. And as far as I know, this plan was followed up precisely by the state in the first two years in terms of the budget appropriations, and now we go – as I understand it – into the third. I recognize that if the county councils do not have the power to follow up their share of the intended expenditure, it can become a aftermath on the installation of new equipment and the maintenance of old ones. I can't get here from the pulpit telling what we're going to do. As far as I know, the Progress Party has submitted a proposal on this for the current year, and there will certainly be discussions on the state budget in relation to what we have to do for the coming years in order for the county councils to do their share. The best answer to this is to enable county councils to cope with their share, so that the distribution of expenditure on investments in equipment of which there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget region is not included. So this goes into the county economy. You have to be a little bit careful about rushing into and changing that key if there are problems, but this is such an important area that it will be Christian People's Party willing to watch. One of the benefits of equipment for our hospitals, which can also be purchased abroad to a large extent and which is used to replace old equipment, is that one cannot reasonably say that it is pushing the Norwegian economy. For it hardly requires anything more labour than the one already standing there and serving the old equipment. So we'll also be willing to look at such a question in that light.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e768	The main spokeswoman of the Labour Party concluded that this year's budget is the most politically profiled which has been presented for a very long time. At the same time, she assured us that there is a very small difference between the centre's view of economic policy and the views of the Workers' Party. I assume that on her part it was meant as a follow-up to the budget agreement you made last year. Now, the central parties have had some mixed experience of how successful that budgetary agreement was. For the Christian People's Party, it has been a main priority that the economy of children's families should not be pushed hard. Now, with the current year's budget, we have experienced four interest rate increases that hit exactly that part of the population extra strongly and have a rather unfortunate distribution profile. For 1999, the then central government received support for a budget line that the Prime Minister himself later declared to be unusually well adapted. The central bank manager stated the same thing: the budget for 1999 is the most adapted budget Norway has had throughout the 1990s. My question to Kjell Magne Bondevik is: How does he assess the experience of the 1999 and 2000 budgets, respectively, and what are the consequences of his approach to cooperation patterns for the future in Stortinget? A Workers' Party, contrary to itself, is not a good government basis. Centers sometimes also have difficulty marching in pace. But what everyone can see from the earthquakes in voters' attitudes during the summer is that, like many other European countries, Norway needs broader government coalitions and needs stronger governments to give greater confidence in the political system. I would also like to have challenged the representative, Mr Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e777	If the Labour Party's parliamentary leader is so pleased with this budget that she calls it the most profiled in a long time, it is not a characteristic that I am going well for. At one point, it is highly profiled, that it throws heavy burdens on business, especially the labour-intensive businesses, i.e. those that have a lot of employees in relation to production, and we find many of them in the districts. This is unfortunate, and this must be corrected in the course of Storting's treatment. With regard to the experience of budgetary conciliation, they may well be so diverse, either the central government would have to conclude them with one or the other. It is true that the 1999 budget, which had to be a very tight budget to cool down a heated Norwegian economy, produced its intended impact. But we also had to do some painful cuts and tightenings in areas where the center parties were giving high priority – with which we were not equally satisfied – because the Right and Advance Party, which is known to have not accepted a krone in tax growth, did not mean that there was any reason to go up in this way at a time when private consumption is rising and rising. This did not mean that we were simply very satisfied with the budget agreement, but it helped to cool down the economy. As far as the 2000 budget is concerned, the priority given to key areas in the development of the welfare society was in many ways better than the 1999 budget could do, but it has also contributed to a pressure in the economy that means that we must now hold back. So finally, this so-called earthquake. Then, I'm sure, wages are thinking about the progress of the Progress Party. Yes, it may require strong governments. But I must say that if the Right, which has unfortunately been unclear at this point, believes that a strong alternative should include the Advance Party in government, to which the party has opened up, is not a Christian People's Party. It will not be a strong alternative if it is to contain as much internal stresses as such an option would entail. There I had hoped that the Right was much clearer in its rejection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e789	Quite recently, the entire Christian People's Party has been in Israel on a tour, and I see from today's newspapers that Christian People's Party representative Anita Apelthun Säle is very offended that she was not allowed to join a TV debate yesterday. I suppose that's because the Christian People's Party has a lot of heart on the situation in the Middle East and criticism of the Government, but from the opposite side in relation to what Kåre Willoch and SV come with. Our criticism is that the government has not been ready to place responsibility, and that there is a difference between Israel and the Palestinians. But I expect that the Christian People's Party is of a different opinion. Therefore, I would like to give Bondevik the chance to explain what is the Christian People's Party's view of who has the primary responsibility for the conflict that is now raging in the Middle East, whether it is such that the Christian People's Party believes there is a difference between shooting young people sharp and young people throwing stones, whether it is such that the Christian People's Party has something to criticize the Government for and believes that it has been too tough against Israel in this process – be against the SV and Kåre Willoch think. I would also like to give Kjell Magne Bondevik the opportunity to say what the Christian People's Party itself had at heart when they met the different parties in the Middle East, because it is not of little importance how Christian democratic parties use the opportunities they have to influence the parties in Israel. Therefore, I would like to give Bondevik the opportunity to tell what kind of messages and what kind of opinions the Christian People's Party has expressed in relation to Israel when they were on their tour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e801	As for the Christian People's Party group's tour in the Middle East, I would say that it might be useful for more big groups and representatives to take such tours. It gives a deeper insight into and the background of a conflict that is enormously complex, and which is useful to have as a backcloth even when you are in an emergency situation like now. With regard to Norway's attitude to the acute situation, let me say that the Christian People's Party essentially shares the handling of this as expressed by the Government. Let me also say, as the Labour Party's parliamentary leader did, that it seems a little strange in some way that the Norwegian uprising is now, while the Middle East is on the brink of war, concerned with the attitude of the individual parties in Norway to who is worst in this conflict. With respect to reporting: What is required now is not primarily such a debate on the distribution of blame, but a massive international pressure and presence to get the peace process back on the rails before it is too late – and it may be about hours. Let there be no doubt that the Christian People's Party is taking a sharp distance from violence, including the Israeli, and shot at children. There is no question about it, and I would like to say that with great emphasis. But it is not possible just to stop there without knowing a little bit more about what is the background of the conflict that has triggered these shots. It's also a little bit related to what we had on the heart of the parties when we were down there. To Yasir Arafat we said clearly: use the chance you now have, while President Clinton is still sitting, while there is a Labour government in Israel, to get an agreement. Both parts may be completed in a short time. To Barak, as we also met: Take the chance now, make some compromises also in terms of delicate questions that have to do with Jerusalem, in order to put an end to the conflict. It deserves the Jewish people. I think that both parties are taking this seriously. It has peaked around Jerusalem. It has peaked around the Temple Height, and Israel has also been provoked by the fact that Arafat has denied that there has ever been a temple there. Such things have also contributed to triggering the feelings that now exist. It must not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e808	Of course, a chronology debate is the opposition's debate in the sense that it is open to bringing alternatives to the policy put forward by the Government in the Common Era. Of course. Likewise, of course, there is only one year left for the next elections, and that it can always shape such a debate. What kind of policy will be pursued in Norway in the coming year? If they wish to influence that policy, they can cooperate in two directions: either with the Labour Party and the Labour Party Government or with both the Right and the Advance Party. It's the practical options for what can form a majority in this room. Let us assume that there has been disagreement and disagreement between the intermediate parties and the Workers' Party on the construction of gas power stations. I do not think this should mean exaggerating the disagreement in environmental policy in other areas. On the contrary, when looking at the two practical cooperation options available for the intermediate parties, the possibilities of pursuing sound environmental policies will be significantly better through cooperation with the Workers' Party and that path. I fully agree with Kjell Magne Bondevik that we need a valuable mobilisation. Recently, incidents have shown that you should be a little cautious about shutting it down within a commission, because it can get completely unintended individual statements for which neither the previous government nor the current government are responsible. But it must permeate our policies in all areas, and not least the economic policy to facilitate most people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e820	For just short to take the last first, I agree with Tom Thoresen that a value debate cannot or shall not be closed within a commission. It has never been the intention of the Value Commission. It has, on the contrary, had as one of its most important functions to contribute to a debate in civil society, and of course it should continue. I hope that the Workers' Party will also be involved for a long time after the mandate of the Value Commission is completed next year. So to collaboration constellations. So now it's the opinion of the centre parties that we represent a centre of gravity, a grouping that sees itself free to cooperate with different parties in the Stortinget on a case-by-case basis – the block-independent policy. We led it when we were in government. It's going to be in opposition. That doesn't mean we're either just cooperating with the Workers' Party here in the house or just with the Right Party and the Advance Party. In the remaining year of this period, we will certainly see both cooperation patterns. Then I have to say that it is striking how happy the working party has now suddenly become in the center parts. In March, the Workers' Party was so eager to get rid of this central government. According to party leader Jagland, it was a danger to house and home, we put a bomb under the welfare state and what was worse. According to current Prime Minister Stoltenberg, this central government was outstandingly weak, which he repeated over and over again. But now these center parties are so uniquely good that they're just the ones you want to work with. What kind of line is there in this, then? Except, of course, you want power. Once you get it, things change for how you look at other parties. No, I think the Labour Party should have a line for what they're doing. The working party was eager to get back a working party government, eager to get rid of the center government. Fair enough – it's a struggle for power. In spite of this, we are going to act constructively in Stortinget. But we have no responsibility for this labor party government, therefore we see no reason to be dictated here and there in unreasonable compromises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e832	I readily agree with Mr Bondevik that there are many objections that can be raised against the Labour Party Government and against the policy it is pursuing. That is exactly why I think it is very important that we do not lose sight of ourselves in the snow that fell in March, but try to look forward to the next tests of strength. We have seen through the census, and not least the budget that has now been presented, that the Workers' Party is returning the clothes that they have borrowed. Someone believed at some point that they had been in the Right cabinet and borrowed, but they are on their way back to their own wardrobe. As State Council Giske so aptly expressed it when he presented the budget in the Drammen: this is good, old-fashioned labour party policy. The government of Stoltenberg began well, with the modernisation of the public sector as the big fan idea. For the Right, it is a dual objective with the modernisation of public Norway. It's both to enable us to take on the challenges of the globalized world and the open borders, and a lot of action is needed to make use of the opportunities offered by this open world. But it is also important and essential to modernise the public sector, so that we can transfer resources to the hospital, to the health care, to the schools, to build roads. What's interesting is that when people are impatient with the public, it's precisely when it comes to the public's core tasks that they're impatient. Then we have to make sure to create resources for these priority tasks by modernising public activities. So the question is, where did this idea of Stoltenberg become about modernisation? It's not in the languages of the throne. It's not in the budget. At best, we get some of the answers after the Labour Party has had its national meeting in a month. In this way, this debate is a debate pending the outcome of the national meeting. The government has now been sitting for half a year, and it knows even less now than when it started what it really wants to do. The need for reform is enormous. We know it's there in the hospital area. We know it's there in the case of two or three administrative units, the closure of the county. We know that the energy sector needs to be reformed. Not least, there's a lot of fat in the system -- excuse the expression -- that needs to be slimmed so that we can transfer money to what's most important. To be honest with you, we have to ask the question: why do we have a boat register that the boat owners don't want? Why should we send them a new bill to which the Government is now taking the initiative? Why are we going to spend 100 million? kr to a foreign student, who is merely a bureaucratisation and a line from which the Swedes are en route? And why should we invent new tasks in the county administration, when we know that the intermediates are a problem for the municipalities? You have to read well in the budget, but as far as I can see, the county officials are now going to issue so-called letters of expectation to the municipalities about future housing construction. The most important thing the statesmen could do was tell their environmental protection departments that they should keep their fingers away from the spatial planning of the municipalities. In that case, it would have speeded up the building. If there's one call I want to make to the government of Stoltenberg, it's just this: Get the modernisation back on track, because we don't, we can't solve the welfare problems in Norway. The second area where the Workers' Party is back in its old tracks is the area of fiscal policy, with the highest rate of increase in time. Yes, Norway sets up the taxes and charges at the same amount as the government of Persson puts them down in Sweden. And the Swedes are following a trend. We see it in the rest of Europe – in Germany, in France. What the government of Stoltenberg obviously believes is that Norway can be a different tax policy country, where we can conduct a tax policy completely regardless of how the world works out there. But if we look at the Swedish reasoning, we see that they've sat down and calculated it, and found out that even if they don't change a single tax rate, they'll still be able to lose 10 pst. of its tax revenue simply because competition is such that it loses the tax base of the rest of the world. And don't come and say that we don't know this in Norway, because the whole border trade is just an example of us being pressured out by the tax level. When we lose out in the competition for the new industries, it's because we have our own Norwegian tax system here at home that makes them simply unable to live with the Norwegian system and have to move abroad. So we know this. And when we hear what the truck drivers say, their desire is to bring the Norwegian diesel tax level down to the level that the EU has. That by everyone on earth the government of Stoltenberg should be the one talking about a different country in this context, is completely incomprehensible, and that's not how it's supposed to be. We need to ensure that our taxes and taxes are brought down to a European level. If not, we will lose in competition. And it's not even interesting to ask, "Well, can we afford this?" Because if we don't, the tax base disappears. That is why there is a need for innovation in this area. It is a new idea we do not see in the policy of the government of Stoltenberg. But no one may have given our clothes back with greater zeal than the finance minister and Kjell Opseth when they address a fist against competitive business by placing the emphasis of their tax increases on the very business of which we are going to live, and with the stated aim of transferring labour from the industries of which we are going to live, to other sectors of society. Yeah, it's actually an area where Schjøtt-Pedersen and Carl I. Hagen think alike. For Carl I. Hagen, at the end of August, the Business of Today was told that his economic policy would lead to the transfer of people from competitive business. And the question he then asked back was, ‘So what?’ – what then? It is the attitude that is now spreading in Norwegian society, whether it is in the Labour Party or in the Progress Party. And that's an attitude we say no to. It's not more than 16-18 months since we had oil prices that lay all the way down in the basement, with big problems for the petroleum industry, and we have now forgotten that these prices are going up and down in a battle tempo. If there's something you can't predict, it's the development of oil revenue. That's why we have to stand up to a really competitive business that's big enough – not because there's some tragedy if a company has to shut down or someone moves out, but it has to be a big environment that makes others take over, that it's new, that it's dynamic. You can't put this in the mill bag, as some of my competitors to the so-called right of me say, because if they're out first, it's no longer a dynamic environment that makes it new. Then we've lost, then we've become too oil dependent, then we'll have a problem with our welfare society in the years to come. And we know that oil revenue will go down, we know that we get big pension groups when my generation comes out into retirement. Then this will cost society money. We have to think about that right now. That's why Right now, and in other contexts, the light is at the heart of the challenge: we need to get more labour in this country. When you want to transfer from competitive business, it's because you need the labour force of other parts of society. And we recognize that it is important to bring labour into other parts of society. But then we have to be willing to take some grip. We have today made proposals for more liberal labour immigration, because we think it is more important for people to be treated than for them to be treated only by the Nordics. We know there are parties that think it is more important that people stay in the hospital queue than that they are treated by Filipino nurses. We do not believe this, we believe it is important to open up a larger workforce in Norway. We will remove the hopeless rules that exist today, for which we have seen a number of examples — for example: that an American nurse who wants to work in Norway comes to Norway to learn Norwegian and is told that you cannot be allowed to apply for a job from Norway, you must do so from the United States, so you have to go home again. It's completely meaningless, and it's part of strengthening the crisis in Velferds-Norway. And those who talk the most about what they want to do with Velferds-Norway are the ones who don't want to be on this kind of proposal. But this is not our only proposal; we have a series of proposals on how to get the workforce in Norway to go up. We believe that we need to solve the strict provisions of the Working Environment Act, we believe that we need to free labour through competitive outsourcing, privatisation and red tape, and we believe that we need to change the rules on disability insurance, so that people with residual working capacity are not depreciated and parked on unsuitable for the rest of their lives. We therefore need to look at the rules in order to combine work and social security. We want to strengthen the payroll schemes. And not least, we want to stimulate people to stay longer in work. The tax and pension system must make it profitable to work longer. However, this is such an important and large area that we cannot limit ourselves to one, two or three of these instruments. The whole key is that what we are now proposing is a broad package of measures, and we will hope and believe that the societal debate will gradually give us the right idea that it is more important that we think again in these areas than that we allow the welfare crisis in Norway just to evolve and evolve. Finally, there is the shortage of labour that is one of the most important challenges facing Norwegian society. This may be an expression that the Norwegian society has not fully addressed the challenges that the open borders subsequently present. We have an anxious relationship with the open borders, and it may be natural since we're a small community. But it's important to see that we're going to trigger the possibilities that we have in this country, and it's precisely in the global arena that this is possible. Coastal Norway's enormous potential can only be properly triggered when we get a real global free trade for food – not least for the part of the food we produce, what's under water. But it's hard to do. I think it's very important that we're just willing to open up. Many believe that the role of politicians is needed back from globalisation and are concerned about it. I believe in many ways that much of what has happened is very good – that individuals decide more than politicians, that through the market we demand what we want, and not least that we free more of the dynamics of society. But what we have to do is change the political role so that we do the right things. And in an open international society, one of the most true things we do is to bet massively on school and education. There I want to give a little flower to the Government. I think it was good that it took seriously the pay problem that Norwegian teachers have, and did something about it during the payroll. I remember correctly how much negative I heard both from the Labour Party and from the LO team when I mentioned quite a lot about this during the election campaign last year, but it is at least good that when it has been half or three months, the government has nevertheless said that they agreed. And that's good, because I think the key to the future school is to get motivated young people into the teaching profession. Then there's another area where I've given the government credit for commenting on the throne, and it's about investing in research, because it's related to school and education, and that's the key. And there it is, unfortunately, so that when we look at the budget of the universities, look at the research, and look at the VAT reforms, well there is a danger that I took my mouth a little too full when I praised the Government at this point. It is a pity, because here is exactly one of the keys that Norway should be able to seize the opportunities that open borders provide. But it also tells us that the Right Challenge is just as clear: now let's make sure to go ahead in this area too!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e862	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e865	Jan Petersen is pleased that the Workers' Party is returning clothes they have borrowed. He'll have to do that. But for us, that's not exactly the main point. For us, the main point has been to be properly attracted to each occasion. If the situation is that there is a great deal of slack in the Norwegian economy, unemployment threatens, it is, of course, right to stimulate business so that you can get more and more people to work, without jeopardising the economy. On the contrary, it increases the value creation of society and what we all have to live on. But if we're in a situation where the Norwegian economy is heavily under pressure, how important areas are struggling with labour shortages, where we've already seen more unpleasant interest rate increases than we want, and at the same time we need to clear up the room for what Jan Petersen himself called the public core area, it might be right to wear a different suit. And that's what you've been trying to do, among other things. in order to accommodate strictly priority and important public tasks in the tight economy we have. So to level, it's true that the Swedishs have reduced their taxes and taxes. They have reduced it to a level far higher than the overall tax regime proposed by the Government in the State budget submitted. And if Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen were to compete with Bosse Ringholm, he still has quite a few thousand copies for the benefit of each of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e872	I find that the Workers' Party is returning the clothes, but I am not happy about it. I had hoped – and I think many with me had actually hoped – that the Workers' Party had been clearer, for example. as to what they would do with the modernisation, or would have wanted them to avoid what they are doing now. But we have to respect the Labour Party because they are now expressing what they think is the right policy, and that is different from the policy that the Right believes is right for Norway. I think we both agree with the Minister of Finance that the main problem is labour. Our disappointment is that Schjøtt-Pedersen did not then in his financial speech draw any consequences from this, but that, after the record from NTB, he satisfied himself with it in the press conference afterwards. But the reality is that there are two main strategies here. So the main strategy of the working party is: let's add a business cycle tax and other burdens on business, including electricity taxes. And that's okay. This is the Labour Party's position. The right position is: rather, let's make sure that we get more labour in Norway in all the areas I mentioned. Instead, let's make sure that the supply of labour is increased. These are completely different strategies. Yes, that's the way it is – there's a difference between the Right Party and the Labour Party in important areas of economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e886	Today, Jan Petersen presented proposals for increased immigration to Norway. I want to ask you a little question about that. The first question is, how many new immigrants do you think there is a need for every year? Is it true that the right is in line with the Director of Labour, who has suggested 40000 per. years, or does the Right have no concrete number? I have registered with today's Evening Post that the Right makes assumptions about both employment contract and not least housing, before coming to the country. We therefore lack housing, at least in some press areas in Norway. Does that mean that the Right, given that they are now opening up to 40,000 new immigrants per. years, it will also facilitate the conditions for 40000 new dwellings per year. years? And in that case, where are those dwellings going to arise? Or that means that the Right in Oslo is now going to work to move the Marka limit, like, for example. The Progress Party has proposed very many years, without the Right being willing to support it? Or does that mean that there are companies that want this labour force to Norway, which will be responsible for providing housing, which in that case means that these companies will go into and into something we already have a shortage of, namely housing, and thus drive prices further up and make it even more difficult for all those who are trying to enter a hard-pressed labour market, especially in Oslo? The fact that the Right will allow companies to provide cheaper labour will I leave in this round. But if this proposal involves allowing permanent immigration to solve a seemingly acute problem in some industries, I would like to ask: When does the Right believe that the effects of this are going to be fully impacted in the Norwegian economy? This means that new labour will also demand goods and services and bring pressure to bear on the economy. Or does that mean that the Right wants labour immigration to be temporary, i.e. on contract, which the Progress Party has proposed earlier, and the Right has voted against?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e896	I have to admit that, at first, during Siv Jensen's posts, I thought it was an interesting angle, because it seemed that she was interested in listening to what is the main issue in the Norwegian economy at the moment, namely the lack of labour, a deficiency that makes us have problems in Velferds-Norway. That was a slightly different attitude than the one that Carl I. Hagen expressed this morning. He made a post that would delight his employee Hedstrom very much, I think, when I heard the contexts he put it all into. But I realized very quickly that Siv Jensen obviously does not want to do anything about this labour problem. Then it is better that the queues are in Norway. For our proposal is just as she described, that we're starting from those who get fixed work. We believe that they will contribute to the common good in Norway. We know that there is demand in a number of places, both where housing is good and where housing is not quite as good, and we believe that it will contribute to creating a demand that makes housing also built. The problem of housing construction in Norway today is not least the plan bureaucracy that Norway has been experiencing. It's possible to do something about it. It is possible to build more dwellings if you are willing to release the markets more freely. We think that would be right. So I don't see any contradiction in this area. When Siv Jensen calls this ‘supervisory’ acute problems, it testifies that the Progress Party has not understood the main problem in the Norwegian welfare society and in the Norwegian economy today. We don't have enough labour. We have to stop putting people in line just because we're not willing to do the necessary grips. And those who are the least willing of all are just the Progress Party. Therefore, they are unsuitable for solving the welfare problems we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e903	I noted with interest the proposal put forward by Jan Petersen today before we started this debate, and have also noticed that the Right has changed its view on immigration policy in essential areas. I have briefly understood the proposal to allow labour immigration from all countries – not only from the EU and the United States, but also from outside these areas, for example. from Africa and Asia — given that he has a job to do. Right does not want the Swiss system that prevents family reunification, where workers are at risk, for example. have to go out again if the situation in Switzerland is to change. Thus there are indicated tones in this which I think are very interesting, and I would like to praise the Right for that change in the direction of immigration policy. In isolation, Norway needs more labour and if we are to be able to build the welfare society with the expectations it creates, it is necessary to increase the workforce in order to avoid pressures in the economy. Immigration may be one of the measures that can be used, but it is, as Petersen pointed out in his article, also other additional measures that need to be included. I assume that once the Right has changed its view of immigration policy, it is not only due to self-interest and to solving Norway's need for a larger workforce, but also to deepen it. In any case, I have noticed for my part the dialogue that the Right has with the immigrant groups, which indicates that this is stabbing deeper. Since Petersen did not comment on this in his speech, I would like to invite the Right parliamentary leader to elaborate on the human rights and human rights considerations that have been the basis for the Right's change on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e910	I think this was a pleasant and positive tone from the Steensnæs side, and if it means that he is willing to follow us on the proposals, that is even better news. What Steensnæs probably wants me to elaborate, and which I'm happy to deepen, is the following main point: I think it's important that we develop a society here at home where all those who live here, are supposed to contribute, that they all be included, and that we don't mention those who live here in the country, in such a way that you light up under the contradictions of Norwegian society. This is not a new position from the Right. One of the important elements of last year's election campaign was not a debate between the Right and the Advance Party in this area, but it was that we so clearly showed in our practical attitudes that we had a completely different view on this issue. We don't have any scary relationship with people from foreign cultures coming here. We assume that they contribute to Norwegian society according to the laws and conditions of Norwegian society. We also need to respect the diversity and the peculiarity that people draw with them – but, as I said, with respect for the laws and conditions of Norwegian society. Our proposal is not just aimed at the countries mentioned by Steensnæs. Among other things, I mentioned: that we have had a number of demands from the fishing industry in the north that they must have the opportunity to build more bridges inwards towards North-West Russia, to both joy. That is why our proposal aims to ensure that we do not point out special countries, but that we should be open where the need is. But at the bottom is the self-evident conservative view of equality and respect – and respect for man’s peculiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e921	‘Differences in Norway are decreasing.’ The background to Bergen’s recent headline was the Statistics Central Bureau’s income statistics for 1999. The consultant who commented on the cases from the Statistical Central Bureau said that the main reason for this is the increase in the minimum pension from 1998. The central part was a trigger for an increase in the minimum pension. The right, together with the Labour Party, rejected this proposal in the spring of 1997. I want to give tribute to the Right for turning around in the autumn of 1997, supporting the central government and seven for a decision that actually raised income for more than 300,000 individuals in this country. The antialiasing message sets the search light on additional actions. One of the strategies is work for several of those who are out of work today. Another strategy is better public services. It's in the municipalities people cage. The framework for municipalities is decisive for the efforts for a better growing environment, for a good school, for support hours and for cultural and care provision. How will Jan Petersen meet all the Right Spokespersons who in these days are asking for increased frameworks to avoid decisions on new cuts in the supply of schools, care and prevention? Is the answer really what he was about in his post, less popular government and more market? What groups of the people are going to win at that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e930	It is good to hear that former government councillor Meltveit Kleppa is not now focusing on the issue of differences, but precisely on the most difficult of all, namely that some fall below the floor that should be. That's why it's very important when she now says the same thing that the Right has said every year, that's that there's work that's one of the main strategies against the development of poor Norway. Because that might be a better expression than talking about Difference Norway. I'm assuming that the Center Party will follow in that area as well. When in my post I just put so much emphasis on changing a good part of the rules that apply in the Norwegian community, it is to include more in the workforce. Our proposal on labour immigration is just one of many elements, and I believe in many ways that the package of measures that I mentioned in my article is one of the most important contributions to getting something done about the issue of getting more people to work. However, this also means that we need to pursue an active policy to ensure that jobs across the country are truly established. The new business cycle tax is an estimate of that type of job. That's why we say no to it. We believe that one of the most important things that now happens is that we conduct a business-friendly policy, and that we conduct a policy that provides proper communication in this country. I noticed that the Center Party has said a lot about the need for more communications. It is nice, but I would like to remind you that they did as well when we adopted Norwegian road and road traffic plans in 1997. But every time we came to the annual budgets, the centre party was unfortunately gone. I hope that the Center Party this time not only says it in general, but that they are in the process of making the actual decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e944	When you hear The Right Leader describe the conditions for Norwegian business, you can sometimes get the impression that you live in Bangladesh or at least in a completely different country. It should not be believed that there are conditions for doing business in Norway. But what is the reality? It's of course that Norwegian business actually goes better than ever. With few exceptions, there is a large surplus in private Norwegian business. It yields greater dividends on shares than ever, and on top of all, fortunately, it's relatively full employment. That means that when you hear Right Care related to business, I think they describe a reality that the few business leaders know about, because the reality is that Norwegian business has the back to bear more costs than anyone today does. But it wasn't my main concern to the Right Leader. There's been a lot of talk about Right wardrobe here today, and the Right obviously has now put on the windshield and forgot that there are more clothes in the closet, because one important point is the Right Leader doesn't talk about at all, and that's the environmental policy. And it's really strange that the Right does not affect it, because one of the civil virtues is that you have to take responsibility for your own actions and take responsibility for future generations. In many important areas, the Right has now chosen to make progress in environmental policy. They have chosen to ally themselves with the Workers' Party in terms of releasing 2 million. tonnes of CO2 without having to pay for it. It has now been decided to go into a petrol tax haven, which has been chosen to say that transport, i.e. more road construction, are the important questions. The question is really: if the Right wants to appear as a responsible conservative party, shouldn't the Right begin to get its green nods and be more concerned with what's called generation accounts, not only in an economic sense, but also in an ecological sense? A conservative party cannot drive and run for Carl I. Hagen in such important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e951	It's probably with line changers as it is with exams, you never get the problems you had prepared for. This is in that case SV's first line without asking about Kåre Willoch and Israel. I should also not answer that question, but go straight into what Djupedal was interested in, just via the following comment: If he does not believe that the business community is familiar with the problem of the cyclical charge, I think Djupedal needs to get into the real business life. This also applies to the electricity charge. However, with regard to environmental positions, I have to say that I do not have the slightest conscience for Higher Environmental Policy – rather on the contrary. I still believe that gas power plants are well-founded from an environmental point of view. I've been on that, I still think so. But there are elements in what we're doing that should delight Djupedal more than what he's now expressing. The very last environmental policy debate we had in Norway took place a three-four weeks ago. Now we're going to launch impact assessments for Beiarn, don't we? And Djupedal might remember that it was the Right Group that was crucial to get this on. So I have a good conscience in that way. I do not think the position Djupedal has on petrol taxes is a particularly good environmental position. It is based on the assumption that driving depends very much on the size of the petrol price. I think he'll soon see that elasticity isn't there. The petrol tax is a significant burden on business and individuals and the settlement we have here in the country, and that is why it is a poor position. I would also like to say that I cannot understand and understand that having a bad road network is good environmental policy. Not least when you think that our road network is a significant element of road safety, it costs a lot of lives, I'm willing to stand for good road construction. Unfortunately, the right is the only party that flag it as high as we're willing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e962	The cord shift is over. Before we move on to the list of speakers, Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen will have the floor to clarify a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e967	Let me clear up a manifest misunderstanding. The representative Petersen has given the impression in several contexts that I have expressed a desire to reduce employment in Norwegian business. Of course I haven't. There is growth in employment in Norway. Growth will continue next year, both in the public and private sectors, compared to the estimates provided by the Government. Thus, despite the economic cycle tax, there is an estimate of an employment growth. What I have said is that it is quite obvious that given that all other conditions are constant and that a private sector levy is imposed, employment will be lower than it would otherwise have been – and in this case, the growth of employment will be lower than it would otherwise have been – it is not an active desire of the Government for lower employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e975	Schjøtt-Pedersen and I have been in debate in the New Year's Eve, and then I gave him the record that NTB gave. He provided the basis for the further debate. The report is as follows: At a press conference on Monday, Schjøtt-Pedersen decided that the cyclical tax would lead to less employment in the private sector, the sentence. And that's the effect. It's getting smaller, and he's moving resources over. If Schjøtt-Pedersen doesn't mean it, Kjell Opseth clearly believes it when he says that if people aren't satisfied with the fee, they'll get to quit. It's two sides of the same thing. I am not quite sure whether Mr Schjøtt-Pedersen should continue this debate far too far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e980	I must admit that in the last attempt to resolve a misunderstanding, I agree more with Jan Petersen than with the Minister of Finance. Norway is in a unique state budget surplus situation that few, if any, other countries can refer to. We have large natural resources that will provide the country with future incomes and a well-developed welfare system. We have better opportunities than most people to further develop society, so that we can ensure the basis for value creation and fair distribution. We have the resources to further develop the school, to further develop the public sector, to further develop the provision of health care, to improve care for the elderly and to improve and ensure the growth conditions for children and young people. The will for responsibility, for fair distribution and for solidarity on which society is built remains strong in the population and is among the basic values on which we must build. So far, the starting point is good and provides the basis for optimism. Norway is in most areas in a unique situation that many countries can envy us. Of course, that doesn't mean everything's right or should be. In many areas there is cause for concern. We see an increasing tendency towards crime and violence. We see, especially among youth, unrest and dissatisfaction in school. We see increasing problems related to drug abuse. We see a development that both parents and societies need to take seriously. The centre party will therefore focus on the growing conditions of children and young people. That's where the main effort has to be deployed if we're to reverse the unfortunate development we're now seeing. It is necessary to invest more resources in school. The number presented in the media a few days ago is saying that 57 pst. of the teachers who were retired last year, went into disability pension. It speaks its clear language. This tells us that more resources are needed for the school. Greater adult density is needed in primary and secondary schools, more teachers and more environmental workers are needed, and resources are needed to provide better care for those children who are currently outside the traditional school. There is a need to strengthen the school leisure system, where very many children aged six to nine spend many hours each day. There is a need to strengthen police prevention; there is a need to reduce the sector boundary between professional skills in auxiliary services; and it is especially important to think fully and prevention when planning and developing community environments. This costs a lot of money, many will object. Yes, it does, but in fact it costs a lot more both in government funds and in personal suffering if the problems are to get attention only when the repair bill comes. The trends we see in parts of business are alarming. When set above other values, greed and consideration for its own gain must be borne by farms. The culture that is revealed among some of the top-notch people in the business world, we must strongly distance ourselves from it. Traditionally, Norwegian business leaders have had their loyalty to employees and to society. There's a lot that now suggests a mentality change. Own profits are given priority over the community. Short-term gains with a focus on exchange prices are put ahead of long-term value creation, often because managers can realise their own profits through the purchase and sale of shares or options through such short-term gains. At the top of it all, we also see signs of a cannibalism among some business actors who won't serve either themselves or society in the long term. Do these peoples think that it is possible to operate in their own sandbox – isolated from the outside world – without what is being done will have consequences? How are you able to overlook that both employees, customers and society will be affected by the mentality these leaders display, and act similarly? How can one think that everyone else should show moderation and solidarity and put the interests of the enterprise and society first, when owners and leaders seem to prioritise their own profits above all else? When I spend time on this, of course, there is a connection between this kind of attitude and the behaviour of individual managers, and the implications for policy-making and the framework conditions for business. Of course, fraud, operations on the edge of the legality and illegality must have consequences, no matter who they are. Stricter rules, e.g.: on insider dealing and more stringent controls such as: it is therefore necessary to assess in the form of a share supervision. And then business remembers when, in the next round, they complain about difficult economic conditions and rigid legislation, that they themselves are responsible for that. The 2001 State Budget proposal presented by the Government carries elements that are of course worth discussing and that should provide the basis for discussions between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. This will in no way weaken the centre as a government option, but as responsible parties, we will of course do our part to help the country get the best possible budget to meet people's needs as much as possible. This does not mean that we will be guarantors of the Government's agreement to the budget submitted, but that means that we will enter into discussions with a view to achieving the best possible result. We choose a responsible and constructive line, as opposed to the Workers' Party, which, after giving up government power in the autumn of 1997, set itself on the sideline of Norwegian policy for two years – without showing the will for responsibility, without showing the will to make political compromises for the benefit of the country’s inhabitants – which in the autumn of 1998 was willing to enter into close and committed cooperation with the Right to regain government power, and which, according to Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland, used the budgetary agreement in the autumn of 1999 as a step back to government power. Work on government authority more than willingness to assume responsibility has marked the Workers' Party during this large-scale period. It's the Labour Party's choice. So let's pick a different one. We choose accountability and, on that basis, we will go into the budget work of the harvest. Although the budget submitted should be the starting point for discussions in which all lots must give and take, there is still much to separate the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the other Centre Parties. The working party's environmental policy is approaching a bottom line for what a government can expect. Opening up the construction of highly polluting gas power plants that will increase CO2 emissions corresponding to about half of the Norwegian fleet is the worst example. But in other areas too, the government is failing: funds for alternative energy are being cut heavily, and the means proposed are mainly being used to invest in gas. Public transport will be made more expensive by introducing VAT on transport. It's part of the Government's environmental profile. Also in relation to the European Union, this government stands for a policy different from that of the Central Party. Thorbjørn Jagland has taken on the role of a perpetrator in order to convince the Norwegian people that we voted incorrectly in 1994, when a majority said no to membership. The Yes page will obviously not surrender until we have become a member. There is no reason at all to open a new EU debate or to make a new application. There has been a sustained and strong majority in the Norwegian people against membership all the time since the 1994 referendum. We haven't experienced the capital flow that the yes-side predicted would come, we haven't experienced investment droughts, we haven't experienced increasing unemployment, nor have we experienced that the business community can't sell its products in the markets. On the contrary. Furthermore, the EU is developing precisely in the direction that the No side of 1994 claimed would take place: more and more towards a United States of Europe, with common policies in more and more areas and increasingly using majority decisions that reduce the influence of small countries. There is no need to reconsider the membership issue. Thorbjørn Jagland has said several times this year that it will be dramatic for Norway if Sweden and Denmark say yes to the single currency euro. Denmark has now said no after 27 years of membership by an overwhelming majority. It is based on strong popular commitment and high electoral participation – a result across what the big parties wanted, and across the media’s influence. It was no, and the dramatist Thorbjørn Jagland was waiting, was missing. Thorbjørn Igland can go to sleep well at night again and put the whole EU debate aside. The centre party is in favour of a VAT reform. It is high time that the basis for VAT was extended, but the proposal put forward by the Government, which includes, among other things: a slight reduction in VAT on meat, while excluding other foodstuffs, is not good enough. It is necessary to base both nutritional and distributive considerations on the resulting VAT reform and to extend the basis to other foodstuffs, such as food. fish, green and fruit, not least from a nutritional point of view. How can we use the financial freedom we have for the benefit of most people? It is unacceptable that people are in a state of health for years and are out of work. It is unacceptable that the Norwegian health service is not organised and does not have the financial freedom to work as efficiently as possible. It is unacceptable that we are unable to maintain the infrastructure that we have built through generations. Roads and railways are becoming worse for every year. School buildings fall due. We're hearing about school classes missing school books. There are countless examples of this development, which are unacceptable to all of us. It's a goal for the Center Party to take care of the values that are built up. It is an objective for us to strengthen education and research to ensure future value creation and well-being. It is an objective to strengthen the efforts of children and young people so that we can avoid more and more problems, and it is an objective to expand the welfare sector and work for the fairest possible distribution. We have financial freedom of action. We lack labour in some areas and in some industries, among other things. in the public sector, which has been identified by others. Therefore, the Centre Party will work to maximise participation in the professional life through maximum flexibility, even in relation to those who, for various reasons, are unable to work full-time. We will also make thorough assessments of regional and industry gaps in unemployment in order to target efforts towards those areas where there is less pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1023	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1026	I listened with great interest to the comments of the president of the Central Party on the willingness to negotiate from the Centre and the Centre in an opposition role in spite of the haranang he took time to discuss what was the role of the Workers' Party when we were in opposition. But if that piece of history served a different purpose than just to give the Workers' Party a negative stamp, Enoxen in the name of justice should also have taken into account that the Workers' Party was the last harvest involved in negotiations with the Centre Government and, in fact, the only co-operator the Central Government has had in the Stortinget who has been behind a budget and has taken full responsibility for a budget arrangement. That's part of the history writing. Odd Roger Enoksen, of course, also takes time to promote the central party's policy. He points to the importance of a good framework for the municipalities. He wants more freedom for the municipal sector. The Labour Party has also proposed this. We have proposed a very good framework for the sector. He wants a fairer distribution. In fact, the centre party called for share taxation in order to create a better distribution and equalisation before leaving the government quarter. They're to reduce food prices. The Labour Party has proposed the first step. There was no such suggestion as the central government was heading. Now there's such a suggestion in Stortinget, which is a step in the direction that the Center Party and the Enoxen want to go. Of course, all the parties in the Storting should deal with the parliamentary situation as it is, even during the rest of this period. That's been the case in the first few years. But there is, however, a large coincidence in the importance of priorities between the Centre and the Workers' Party, which I stressed in my article today. My question to Enoxsen is, what is the role of the Centre Party and the Enoxens this autumn? Will the Centre Party and the representative Enoch use his position in the centre to draw the centre towards the Workers' Party? And is his opening in the nations today in terms of the economic cost, an expression of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1037	I would like to thank the Workers' Party once again for helping the Centre get an impact for 99.6 p.m. of the draft budget we presented last autumn. As I also said, I acknowledged to the Labour Party that they made a budgetary settlement. But we heard in March the head of the Labour Party claimed that it was a step on the way back to government. When, in retrospect, one performs to say that the entered budgetary settlement and the willingness to cooperate were primarily meant to be an attempt to regain power, it has a certain bismach. But I'll leave it. As I said, it's the Labour Party's choice. In many areas, we have common goals, and we want to have some of the same developments. But there are also many areas that divide us, and that is in the areas we have to go into during the year's budgetary procedure. I thought I had clarified quite well in my main post what will become the role of the Central Party in the budget negotiations in the autumn. We intend to be responsible. We intend to be constructive and try to achieve the best possible result. But it is a result that goes in the direction we want, among other things. in the field of district policy, environmental policy and industrial policy, to mention some areas. It is quite right, as the representative of Hill-Marta Solberg points out, that there is a strong pressure in many sectors and in many areas of business, and there is a shortage of labour. But we do not share the Workers' Party's view that the cyclical fee proposed by the Workers' Party and the Government is the best solution. It hits flat. It affects all companies equally. I strongly disagree with what Kjell Opseth has said, that we should let the companies that are unable to cope, quit people, let them liquidate and free labour in that way. A few years ago, the Norwegian fishing industry was a through-subsidized industry. The farming industry lay with its broken back and had a lot of bankruptcies. It is no more than one year since the Labour Party accused the centre of not taking seriously the situation in the Norwegian shipbuilding industry and not putting in enough action – a labour-intensive industry that is facing a huge increase in the cost of the cyclical tax. Everyone claims that these industries will be the Norwegian industries of the future. [[President clubs]] Are we going to build them up by charging them extra charges, or are we going to target the efforts towards the sectors where we really should release labour? [[President clubs]] – This time I didn’t have time to say anything about it either, but I’ll probably have time for that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1048	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1051	The leader of the centre party made a contribution to the reform of VAT. We all know that the Central Party has for a long time had reduced food VAT, harmonisation with Swedish level, as a matter of flag. At present, the Progress Party is also considering the reduction of food VAT. We now think that Norway is in an economic situation that can cause Kari and Ola Nordmann to get lower food prices. So we can agree with the Central Party that the VAT compensation proposed by the Government, which is equivalent to a VAT reduction of 5 pst, is going to be too shaky. In Eastfold, the border trade union over something, from which I come, one laughs at what the Government has proposed. The Swedish border will still be a single long trading desk and Stroemstad a clone. The problem in this situation is that the farmer has made a cut in the primary prices of food, but it does not benefit consumers. We've had three agencies that have assessed this lately, and they don't agree on who's taking out a bloated profit. In 1993, we received a VAT investigation, a NOU, which assessed the differentiation of VAT. They found that it would have very small distribution effects, and that would mean a large control apparatus. If the Centre Party had a majority in favour of a real reduction in the food tax, how would this party ensure that it benefited consumers and thus make Norwegian agriculture and food production more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1064	I am pleased that the Progress Party now seems to have changed its position in the view of reduced food tax. We can only hope that that position has a somewhat longer shelf life than when one morning was to keep the North Norway grant, but in the afternoon again was against it. We're going to think that at least it's going through the treatment here in Stortinget. Reduced food tax is the easiest way to target it and see that it benefits the consumer. It is a discount on the charge that can be measured directly on the price to the customer. The only way we can ensure that reduced VAT benefits the customer is that it is measurable in a good way. I also believe that the business will be set up in contrast to what we have seen when the Progress Party has been a driving force to reduce the income of the farmer, where the reduction in income has mainly ended up in the pockets of a few merchants. So a little bit back to the question from Hill-Marta Solberg, which I didn't have time to answer in full. It is not right that I opened a business trip fee in the form proposed by the Government. It's true that we can assess other models, other models that are more targeted and that have the same purpose, namely to reduce activity in the Norwegian economy. It's not money we're missing, it's real resources. We lack labour to put into the sectors where we need it. Over the last five years, nearly 70 billion dollars have been invested each year in, for example, the service sector. It's in the sector we've also had the strongest growth in employment, if you ignore the growth of municipalities. It is against this sector that we should, in the first place, focus our efforts on ensuring employment in the industries that will be the export industries of the future, which will ensure export revenue to the country in the period after oil revenue has dried out. We have seen strong growth in the services sector. We should now try to slow it down. That is why the Centre's proposal for an investment levy, an additional short-term investment tax, was a good proposal, which the Workers' Party in its time rejected, but which is a proposal that should now be re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1075	Interestingly, it may seem that Øystein Hedstrom and Odd Roger Enoxsen find each other in the intersection between border trade and agricultural policy. I guess it's the six billion Hedstrom is going to cut in agricultural transfers, which is going to be used for the reduced VAT, so it's going to be asked if that is going to go up. Odd Roger Enoksen said in his reply with Hill-Marta Solberg that the budget cooperation in the autumn of 1999 was a step back to the government of the Workers' Party. The strange thing is that not the Senter party saw it in the autumn of 1999. The working party saw enough. Now it's like the Center Party has a rhetoric that's very targeted at the districts. What may be a little bit of a shame for the Center Party is that they have so unilaterally invested in an industry in the districts where the number of annual works is reduced by 2,500 per. This is the case in the EU Member States, where there is a significant increase in the number of young people in the EU and where there is a significant increase in the number of young people in the EU. But it was in a line that Enoch had earlier this day after the article from Hill-Marta Solberg, he hurled at the fact that in the state budget for this year, 165 million has been raised. kr in expanded share capital of IT Fornebu, which is estimated in relation to alternative use in districts. It is centralized here in the most pressing areas. What's interesting to see then, and what's my question, is: Can the Enox guarantee that he's not going to vote for that capital expansion, spend 165 million. kr at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1086	It is a majority on Stortinget that has decided to build an IT and knowledge centre on Fornebu. All of the center parts, including the center part, had a different profile and a different device on that proposal, and of course we'll also review that again in the autumn. But the decision has been made. My point of remarkableness in the budget was more that the Workers' Party and the Government have performed to add 165 million. kr to share capital of an IT centre in Fornebu under the district investment in the budget, not primarily in terms of the size of the amount, but in terms of the performance of calling it district investment by adding it under that item. It is quite obvious that we saw the risk that budgetary cooperation with the Workers' Party could increase the risk of a government crisis. We saw that. But despite that, we chose to go that way, and I would have chosen that again if I had got that choice, first of all because the central government and the centre party are concerned that we should look for solutions in the directions where we can get the best results and achieve results that are closest to what we want. In some policy areas it is in cooperation with the Labour Party, in other areas it is in cooperation with the Right, and it is with the Progress Party in some areas. But we were willing to do so, despite the fact that we realized that the Workers' Party could at some point use that budgetary agreement to withdraw government power. It happened, but as a responsible party, it is still our task to work for the benefit of the country's citizens and to seek political solutions that are as close to what we want, not primarily to seek power for the sake of power, but to achieve political results. That's what we're working for. I would have made that choice again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1091	The leader of the centre party says that the Workers' Party's environmental policy is at a bottom level, with gas-fired caskets as a major concern. That's the whole thing. Our problem is: what will the Centre's environmental profile become in the future negotiations? Which kind of positions will they occupy? There's a reason to ask about it, not least based on the reaction of the Center Party's own leader. When some heavy goods vehicles came out on the roads and there was someone who spoke in capital letters, he wanted to reduce the diesel and petrol charges. He said that in a really populist way. So the question is, where do we have the Center Party? Is it so that they go for increased traffic, more goods on the road, less on the road? If that's what becomes the central party's profile in the negotiations, then it's not good environmental policy. And as the representative of Enoxsen knows, the problem is not the fuel price and the diesel tax. The problem is the price of collective supply. In 1970, a litre of petrol costs $1.25, and it also costs the bus ticket. Today, a litre of petrol costs NOK 10-11, while bus tickets cost NOK 20. There has therefore been a clear long-term discrimination in this area. That's what the challenge is. The question for the Central Party will be: Will the representative of Enoxen play with all the youth organisations in Norway minus FpU, and with the SV syta, because there is no question of high petrol and diesel taxes that are the problem? It's easy to say that you're doing something about the collective service. Where do I have the Center Party there?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1098	It is a paradox that the government is presenting a proposal that involves more expensive public transport, more expensive trains and more expensive buses, while proposing cheaper petrol. This is a proposal that the Central Party is totally opposed to. But we also have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once. We want a stronger commitment to public transport, especially public transport near and in the major cities where the need is great and the opportunities to address traffic challenges are greatest through the use of public transport. At the same time, we also have to realize that we are not able to expand the same collective offer around the whole of District Norway, and that in large parts of the country you are far more dependent on a car as a means of transport than what you are elsewhere in the country. It must therefore be possible to step up efforts in the field of public transport, to combine the strengthening of public transport with road pricing to increase the cost of using cars, while, on the other hand, reducing the cost of petrol and diesel, i.e. fuel costs, both for the transport industry and for those who depend on cars. Thus, an environmental profile can be achieved by preventing a strong increase in urban car traffic, while also facilitating the absence of strong cost increases in District Norway. It would be enough to remember that petrol and diesel prices have increased by almost 40 pst. the last year. Despite the fact that prices are still at a level that we had for some years ago, this is a strong cost increase in a year, and I am therefore pleased that the Government has made such a strong contribution to reducing fuel costs to people most of the way they have done. The problem is that the environmental profile of this proposal is missing and that at the same time the price of public transport is also increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1103	That's enough for us to agree on the history of gas power plants and the departure of the previous government in the course of these two days. However, it is a reality that what was asked cabinet questions about – I think otherwise it was the first time that a government went off not on the government proposal, but on the basis of a proposal presented in the Stortinget, a rather special form of cabinet issues really – was about changing the pollution law. That's what this was about at the time. But we're still likely to disagree on the consequences of gas power plants. We therefore believe that it is better to reduce imports of Danish coal and Swedish nuclear power, rather to have gas power plants in Norway and develop them as an industry. It gives cleaner environments, but it's not sure it gives such good rhetorical points. However, I would rather take care of what I thought was very positive in the contributions of the representative, Enoxsen. It was said in a reply here earlier that the representative of Enoxsen agreed on the need to mitigate the activity, as a comment on the business cycle fee. He'll do it another way, yes, well, but we think it's an essential point if we agree that we're going to move activity from the private sector, which is now going so on, and something left on unsolved tasks in the public sector, health and care for the elderly. I'll take that as a very good sign. I also take it as a very good sign that the representative, Mr Enoksen, has so far not commented on the contributions of the representative, Mr Solberg, in the area of municipal economics. I take it as a confirmation of what we have said, that in the case of the municipal economics proposal, it has been very well received, and it is very good if the centre parties in particular agree with that. Yes, because the scheme that has been put forward is actually so good that we have not only kept what we promised in May, but until all the over-measures have kept what the centre parties promised when it was a municipal economy, in May. It's probably the first time that the central parties' promises about the local economy are being kept, and they're being held by us. I take it as a positive signal that so far it has not been commented on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1113	It is quite right, as I have said several times, that there is a need to dampen the activity of the Norwegian economy, especially in some areas, and I think it must be a challenge for us all to work purposefully to dampen the activity where it is the largest, where it creates the greatest press effects in the Norwegian economy, and where it creates the most inflation. If we can do that, I think we've done a good job. So it's also that there are, of course, elements in the budget that are positive. The government's commitment to the municipalities is a step in the right direction. It is also true that the increase in the municipal economy to which it is now being added is broadly in line with what I said while I was a municipal minister. So it was before we knew the effects of the income statement, before we knew the effects of extended holidays, before we knew about the conversion of the pension system, which increases the cost, and before we knew that the state's negotiations with the teachers that led to increased costs for the school sector and thus also increased costs for the municipalities. But we'll have plenty of time to get back to that. The Bondevik government chose to leave because a majority on the Stortinget was willing even to weaken the pollution law in order to build highly polluting gas power plants. It was willing to use all the means to build these gas power plants. And then you say it doesn't mean increased CO2 emissions, and it doesn't mean increased pollution. Yeah, that's okay. You can measure it the way you like, but when the government on the other side of the proposal for next year's budget also performs to reduce the allocation of alternative energy and for renewable energy, you also show that you don't charge clean renewable energy. Gas is used for everything it's worth, including domestic use, and gas power plants are being built. In this way, the environmental profile is weakened and pollution is increased. The government has now also expressed doubts at the top of the whole of itself as to whether gas power stations will really help reduce emissions globally. We are still of the opinion that reducing energy consumption and investing in alternative energy, on clean, renewable energy, is the best way to reduce emissions – not by building gaseous power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1124	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1127	As usual, SV has a lot on the heart when there is a throne debate and, as a matter of fact, always. But I'm going to try to concentrate on some of the main challenges and some of the main objections we have to the government's policy. It concerns environmental policy, and it concerns the international challenges we face, in particular in the light of the fact that we can join the Security Council during the evening or night. In one of the richest countries in the world, we belong to the political generation that has more opportunities to shape the future than any other generation before we have had. No one has had as great a chance as we have to make any clear political choices for the future, and the test of whether we are believers is about the results of the small steps we take today, tomorrow and in connection with this year's government budget, leaving to the next generation a society and a globe that is better than the one we ourselves were given to manage. Is it so that the majority of adults should tell their children and grandchildren, perhaps even their great-grandchildren, that, yes, in 2001, great-grandfather was on the Stortinget. That was the year I managed to get the 2 kroner. Cheaper, little friend. That was the year when the gas price went down by 1.20 kroner. More could drive more. It was a party. We grilled with the disposable grilles inside the car and with the engine on, because we saved so much money on it. What? A bit of an honorable legacy. This year's debate on the throne and the talk of the throne are exposed to ambitions in environmental policy. Last week, when the Minister of Finance presented the state budget for next year, he boasted that for the first time, a finance minister was now cutting down the fuel taxes. And at the same time, Norway is one of those countries in Western Europe that spends least public money on public transport. In 2001, more bus routes will be laid down, and there will be fewer take-offs with the NSB. It's starting now, there's been a series of announcements next year. It's simply a policy that goes in the opposite direction to what the majority of people say they want. Because in all transport plans and in all celebrations you say that you want a transition from car to track, and especially in the central lines. With open eyes, the opposite is being done, facilitating the growth of private car transport, while reducing the share of public transport. You know what's going on. It is simply that public transport loses its share of traffic because the subsidies are so small. In Trondheim, Bergen and Tromsø, efforts towards public transport have been reduced by 10 p.m., while in Europe the average is that public transport is subsidized by 50 p.m. This means that many other major cities in Europe have significantly better public transport services than we have. There have also been reductions in Oslo, but in Kristiansand there has been an increase. The one that has increased its most in recent years has been Bergen, while they have been reduced in Kristiansand. And the speech of the numbers is very clear. In Bergen you run less public transport now than before, while in Kristiansand you have actually managed to have a growth. There is one recipe to get people from private cars to railways and public transport, and it is simply to bet on public transport and not to spend all the money – a total of DKK 2.5 billion – to make petrol and diesel cheaper. Then there's someone who thinks it's good district policy to put down the gas price. But neither is it! It is simply not that it is primarily in the most pig-sucking strokes in Norway that people are driving most cars. It is mainly in the districts around the big cities that people drive the most cars, and it is well-guested men in good cars who drive the most, and they run the most food-packing. So it's the ones that get the greatest pleasure that the gas price goes down. And then what's going on? Well, then probably the queue on the roads to Oslo will be a little longer. And then what happens? Then the pressure increases for several of the road billions to go to the central eastern region, because here you're in line, and then you use a few billion more to build more roads in the central eastern region, and then we move the queue a little bit further down in Westfold and in Eastfold, and then we almost don't use any dollars on the railway. Then it's going to happen that has happened before, that it's in the districts, where you need more effort on the road, better standards, racial protection, the opportunity for business to get their goods out, you're going to get less money on the way. And then the whole pressure is going to come in the east. And when this is supported by a different twisting of the charges, namely by increasing the annual charge on a car, but making it cheaper to drive a car – i.e. more expensive to have a car, but cheaper to drive a car – the opposite way goes. What you should do was come up with a system that was like removing the annual car tax in those areas of the country where we know that public transport cannot compete, because it is right that buses and trains in many places are not going to be an alternative to a private car, while in central lanes, where you can bet collectively, the effort on the collective offer is essentially aimed at getting a transition from a private car to a train. It would have been a forward-looking policy. Then you could see children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren into your eyes and say: Yes, in 2001, we took the course. Then we strung out a course that made the pollution in the cities less, the CO2 emissions went down, several went over from car to runway. It would have been a forward-looking, real environmental policy! The majority of the population is going to do the opposite – with open eyes. It is also reassuring that one of the important issues of struggle for the Government, which is really the basis for this Workers' Party government, is the struggle to build gas power plants in Norway. It is with open eyes that you open to increase CO2 emissions by 2 million. tonnes. No reassessment has been ordered from SFT. SV thinks it's striking. Therefore, we have submitted a proposal that the Stortinget should ask the Government to ask State pollution control to assess the impact of no requirement for reduced CO2 emissions in the construction of new gas power plants. This opening from the Government is going to be anchored, and it can be very important for the appeals that SFT actually says. It is not like Dag Terje Andersen and other speakers from the Workers' Party say that if we build gas power plants here, it will automatically mean that we will get less emissions from coal-fired power stations down in Europe. It is quite simply that both the Minister for the Environment and other figures from the Workers' Party say: it is a matter of faith, we cannot prove it, but we believe it. So it does not stick to environmental policy! This means a massive increase in CO2 emissions, while we should have gone the other way. This does not include issues of faith in environmental policy. During the evening, it becomes clear whether Norway will become a member of the Security Council. Earlier in this debate, SV has challenged both this government and the Christian People's Party to speak clearly in connection with the Middle East conflict. Then I realized at Bondevik that it is almost unheard of that discussion in Norway. Now you have to do something in common, and it is unheard of to discuss what kind of political demands you should have with Israel and with the Palestinians. Excuse me, President, but it's actually like you don't make peace in the Middle East if it's not a fair peace. And then it's not useful to say that here both parties are equally evil. Then it's not useful to say that this is where you just have to make sure you're friends. Here you have to make sure that there is a fair peace. If not, there will be no peace, unless there is no basis for lasting peace in the Middle East. It is simply that Israel has pursued a policy in which they have allowed new builders to establish themselves in Palestinian territories, where they have forced Palestinians, where Israel shoots with sharpness, and where, of course, it is young people filled with rebellion, hatred and resistance that throw stones at an occupying power. But you can't get anywhere in the Middle East without a fair peace. I am therefore pleased that the Government has become much clearer over the last few days in relation to where the responsibility for the conflict in the Middle East and the escalation there is now, and the UN Security Council as well. However, we have more tasks, not only if we were to become members of the Security Council, but also if we are not. But let me take some challenges from SV: First of all, the biggest challenge of world society and the United Nations is to be able to prevent conflicts before anyone steals weapons. It's always too late when someone pulls to the weapon in a conflict. All the time after the Cold War, the world's conflicts and wars have been characterized more by civil wars than by wars between nation states, not with the supermodern new technological weapons, as is often believed, but with old-fashioned mauser and situations in which assaults against the civilian population, women and children, are the way to wage war. But when it's so far, it's almost always too late. A major challenge for the United Nations is therefore to have such a good overview and knowledge that you know where conflicts can occur – not tomorrow, but in five years, ten years. This is primarily a challenge for parts other than the Security Council. The Security Council is much more focused on the actual conflicts, but that is the main perspective. This means that all that is involved in combating poverty, which is about not explaining conflicts based on ethnicity or religious differences, is one of the most important peace efforts we can contribute to. The second challenge from SV is: we need to have a different sanction policy from the world society towards states and despots you want to punish. I think the way the sanctions have worked in relation to Iraq is a challenge for the world society, because we know that it is the civilian population that we are concerned about to get better status and that we want to protect, that suffers primarily from the sanctions of world society. That's why there's no way to go, so the sanctions need to be changed so that you get them targeted at the elite you want to weaken, and not so that you say with open eyes that all the children in Iraq who get leukemia, just have to die because it's a consequence of the sanctions. The sanctions work so well here at home and the consequences make us feel so terrible about Saddam Hussein. Internationally, it is a difficult, demanding debate to take, but it is extremely important that Norway dares to stand up, primarily against the United States, but also to change the sanctions. Thirdly, Norway's role in the United Nations and the role it plays, for example. may have in connection with the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new countries and new groups on the nature of the work they do themselves. Norway is still a member of a defence alliance based on the first use of nuclear weapons. It's hard to believe that with morals, you can raise your index finger to India and Pakistan and say, "No, you shouldn't want nuclear weapons, but we'd like to reserve the right to have a so-called defense based on the first use of nuclear weapons." Norway needs to run a much tougher line. Nuclear weapons are not defence weapons, and it can be a very important signal for a country that wants to combat the proliferation of nuclear weapons and is based on peaceful solutions. To sum up in clear terms in the last few minutes: Norway has nothing to do in the Security Council if we are to act as runners for the United States. We have a lot to do if we dare to use the independent role we have as a non-EU member country, with the job we have actually done, and we are doing as contributors to peace processes around the world. There's a lot I could have on my heart, for example. in the fight against poverty in Norway, which has been the subject of many. My challenge is: there's no need to investigate this anymore. If there is a political will to ensure that there is no poverty among children in Norway, we will do so when the state budget is dealt with. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1161	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1164	I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed to the representatives, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1169	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1174	The representative Halvorsen was so kind that she gave me a visit in her post. Otherwise, I think the article is positive, because it addresses many big, forward-looking questions. As for what she referred to for me to be a believer, it must be due to a misunderstanding, at least on the matter of gas power plants. It is not that we, who believe it is right to build gas power plants in Norway instead of importing coal power and nuclear power, do so only on the basis of faith. On the contrary, we know very well – so we know – that we are importing this force today. We're building it on an actual knowledge. That's why we want to replace it with something that's at least a little less polluting, and that's why several of us went in to expand what we said earlier we were going to build in Upper Otta. It is pure force to replace contaminated foreign power. Just that question is not a question of belief, it's a question of knowing. Moreover, in the previous round we discussed this, it appeared that both SFT, SINTEF and other bodies had identified the consequences of building gas power plants in Norway and pointed out that emissions were likely to be reduced. It's now done again in this round. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has used both the Frisch Centre and the Central Bureau of Statistics, and they immediately conclude that it will bring about a reduction. What goes on in the taxes on petrol in the districts is not a matter of faith either. I've seen that the Transport Economics Institute theorizes that statistically speaking people live around the cities, depending as much on a car as people living in the districts, but it's going to turn the case upside down. The reality is that those living in the districts have fewer options to choose instead of a car. That's why we think it's right to put down the gas price. We can't continue to let people in the districts pay expensive petrol, and use as argument that the tram in Oslo rarely goes for people in Engerdal and Trysil to pay expensive gasoline.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1183	If the representative Dag Terje Andersen can bear that I'm joking with him, I would say in relation to him being so persuasive as to believe that building gas power plants in Norway will reduce polluting emissions from coal-fired power stations down in Europe, that it reminds me of someone I met in a prayer house environment in the Grenland area in my youth. He didn't just believe in virgin birth, he knew it! He knew intensely that it had happened! The problem is that the Workers' Party cannot prove that the construction of new gas power plants will in fact replace the import of coal power and that it can happen instead. But at least what we can prove is that the government's efforts in the field of alternative renewable energy are terribly poor. This is the area where we should have had a lot of effort, because what legs are we going to be on when the oil comes to an end? What is the future-oriented new one? After all, it is to ensure that Norway, which has had competence in the power sector for many years, uses that competence for what is the new form of energy for the future. When Denmark can have windmill technology as its second largest export industry after bottle, it is because they have systematically invested in it. So there's nothing less blowing in Norway than it does in Denmark. In which areas we are going to build competences for the future, there is a question of political will. And that's one more thing: there aren't many years until the Kyoto agreement imposes a significant reduction in CO2 emissions. Then we have a huge job, a huge drag to do again when both private cars are increasing, and when CO2 emissions from new gas plants are increasing. Which sectors will it take? That's not what the Workers' Party is talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1192	It might be nice to have spun on this with him who, after meeting Kristin Halvorsen, knew that the virgin birth had happened. But I'll leave it. Kristin Halvorsen said she had a lot on her heart that she didn't have time to say anything about, but I'm going to challenge her in an area, that's on proposal no. 6, which SV voted against the last time this was happening in Stortinget. I just came from the United Nations, where I've been for four weeks. One of the interesting themes we've been through was being taken up in a movie and in a panel debate where we were present, that's just an honorary drop. It was also tied up against the circumcision. Then it might be interesting to know if it was a mistake that SV voted against the proposal last year, when we have now been documented that both atrocities and circumcision are going on among Norwegian citizens. If it doesn't happen in Norway, at least it can happen among Norwegian citizens. Is SV now willing to join in doing something about a culture that, in our opinion, cannot be accepted in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1201	If we're going to have a little visit to the prayer house environment in the Grenland area first, I think I can admit that with the virgin birth he was a little inexperienced. It is possible that he has changed his position gradually. And it's possible that there's a little hope for the Workers' Party in the gas power case, too. But then to what are very serious questions. I totally disagree with the representative Solholm when he calls this "unculture". The things we're discussing here, whether it's about intersection or honorary drop, have nothing to do with culture. It's crime, and it's unacceptable. It is simply that it must be worked intensively not just that it does not happen in Norway, but that the attitudes that are behind it for the purpose of making atrocities and circumcision are being combated in Norway, so that no one living here is subjected to such mutilation and crime. That is why I am voting against proposal No. 6, because it seems that we have had a policy of integration in Norway that accepts austerity and circumcision. That's wrong. This has never been accepted in Norway. We must not pretend to have an integration policy in Norway, where this is called culture, and where this has been accepted. What you have to do, on the other hand, is hang the bell on the cat and say, "This is criminal, and it's punishable." And if someone calls for that in Norway, they can be punished for it in Norway. The revelations of the past few weeks have shown, not only that this is happening anywhere in the world, for we have known, but that religious leaders living in Norway have encouraged unrevenues in Norway, for example. to be circumcised because the family wants to. This is about criminal policy, and also about a policy towards the girls and their families, because it is a very heavy burden for them to be excluded from the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1208	Around the country, many small and medium-sized enterprises are struggling to survive. Often these are women's jobs, which, despite particularly high costs and often difficult location, are deficient. On several occasions SV has underlined the importance of turning the taxes and taxes on labour. In the lot’s work programme for this period, they are used to reduce the employer’s fee. At the same time, the lot notes that the overall level of taxation for industry and business should not be substantially increased. Although our party disagrees with regard to the taxation of capital, here I see that we can agree that it is not reasonable to increase the levy on labour. Such a change will only particularly affect the companies that have many employees, but do not have a strong capital base, just the type of enterprises that I mentioned initially. Increasing the levy on working hands will affect everyone equally, irrespective of their profitability. Will SV insist on its programme formulation for the rest of this large-scale period, and thus go against the Government's proposal for a short-term cyclical tax, which is in reality an increase of the employer's fee of 1.5 pst. And what charge will SV fight to reduce to compensate for the increase in the electricity charge, for which they are likely to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1216	It is true, as we are told here, that SV has both programmed and previously agreed that the employer’s fee should be reduced. In particular, during periods of high unemployment, there have been SV policies to encourage enterprises to employ more people. SV agrees with the main approach of the Workers' Party that they want to move a significant number of billions from the private sector to the public sector. We can discuss how to pull in those heads. This is about approx. 51⁄2 billion for next year's budget. If you didn't, we're afraid the local economy would get worse. There is now likely to be a status quo in school and education policy. It should have been a bet, but it could have been tightening and cutting. It's been a long time. So initially, we could think of a tougher tax on profits, or an even tougher one on dividends. But we want to be involved in discussing how we can move SEK 51⁄2 billion from the private sector to the public sector, because this is about the fact that it is in private consumption and in the private sector the really great growth has been in recent years, while the public sector has become lagging behind. That's what we see every day, that the standard at school, for example. is much worse than many are used to private. And I think the business community should think a little bit about it. They depend just as much on the fact that you have a well-qualified workforce for the future as anyone else. That not Norwegian business is much more concerned with what is really the standard in school, much more concerned about whether the forms of work practised in school are the way in which the working life outside school is? I think it's amazing that no Norwegian business leaders take a round at the nearest school, ask to sit on the back bench, follow the kids through a school day and say, well, we need a couple of dollars to renovate the school, because that's the basis for value creation for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1223	SV and LO leader Yngve Högensen was among those who were most enthusiastic when the state budget was presented. And that's understandable, because in economic policy, the Workers' Party is taking many steps towards SV and away from the centre. But it is incomprehensible that SV has been involved and covered over many of the poor distribution practices included in this budget. In fact, many weak groups and many small groups experience dramatic cutbacks, and there are groups that do not have strong organisations behind them or the head of the Central Government of the Workers Party. Cut in adoption aid is one example of poor distribution policy, and there are many others for those studying a budget that has had the primary objective of contributing to cheaper spirits. I am also among those who believe that the short-term cost is a poor distribution policy, because it affects the whole country – all businesses, regardless of whether they go well or bad. And it contributes to weakening, among other things. of the districts and for centralisation. And I experienced far along the way the answer that Kristin Halvorsen gave to Höie, as a confession that this is a bad grip. At least the effects are dramatic. In his contribution, Kristin Halvorsen had a massive settlement with the Workers' Party's environmental policy. That's why. Today, the Workers' Party has contributed to a poor approach to environmental policy after it has taken over. And my question to the SV manager is, isn't it that the change of government was an accident for Norwegian environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1234	I'm trying to train my musicality in understanding the difference between the notes from the center, because I understand that the Center Party has thought that there was a lot of good politics, so-called old-fashioned social-democratic policy, which came from the Workers' Party, while the Left's well is a little more against. It is not that SV is overly enthusiastic about the Labour Party's budget. If Kvassheim had followed my entire post, he might have seen that that's not how I am when I'm excited, to say it like that. But if we get a little bit better known, we're going to sort it out. There is a lot of bad policy in this budget, for example. support for adoption and environmental policy is at its worst. But it is also true that if we really wanted to fight poverty in Norway, we could do so in the budget. It's a challenge to the center as well. We don't need any new clarifications about it, we know that it's about housing policy, about social assistance standards and about children's needs should have something to say about what the level should be. Yeah, just jump on. SV has lots of suggestions. Here you go, jump on. So Kvassheim would like me to say that the change of government was an 'accident' for environmental policy. Yeah, we didn't vote for that government change, we. We agreed with the centre, with the Workers' Party and the Right, with regard to the gas power case. But the challenge both the central parties and we are facing is that the Labour Party has a majority with the Right and the Advance Party, and that they are going to have it this period and probably the next period and the period then to ‘run’ a bad environmental policy. Therefore, I would like a little bit tougher tones from the centre about the connection between the gas power plant and the budget. If we – you and SV – are willing to use power and tie some fists in environmental policy, there is therefore a possibility. It's not like the government from the Workers' Party is calling for help to get off.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1243	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1246	It's been a little over six months since the Workers' Party and the Right went together to clear the center government of the road. The premise was the need for progress in the plans for the construction of gas power plants with high greenhouse gas emissions of CO2. Only now before the weekend did we see the Stoltenberg government's arrangements for how gas power expansion is intended to be realised. In March, an opening to change the pollution law was crucial for the Workers' Party. This need is obviously gone now. Away is also the central role of the SFT as a professional body, a role that they were assigned by the Jagland administration, which in its time dealt with the matter. Away are all alternative strategies to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The government's proceedings appear to be an exercise of appropriateness, not even as an attempt to pursue a consistent environmental policy. Jens Stoltenberg in his time characterised the Bondevik government as “uniquely weak”. I think it is right to say that the environmental profile of the government of Stoltenberg is difficult to get a better certificate, which also seems to be an overall environmental movement. I believe that opposition leader Stoltenberg in his assessment of the Bondevik government as ‘uniquely weak’ was injured to confuse the completely necessary process against majority voting for a minority government proposal with weakness. The central government was given a majority in charge of the budget for 1998, 1999 and 2000, although the Labour Party chose to remain completely outside the budget for the first two years. The draft budget that has now been forwarded to the Stortinget from the government of Stoltenberg is probably more suitable to alleviate the dissatisfaction of trade unions and their own parties than to obtain a majority in the Stortinget. In 1998, a party leader, who has been very present in the Chamber today, said to today's industry that the tax ceiling had been reached, on the contrary, that it had to look at the possibilities for reductions in taxes and levies in the years to come. The party leader said in the same interview: ‘We cannot continue to pay for politicians’ promises and needs with ever higher taxes and taxes. Then you won't get up the new business to carry this. Then it is no longer possible – with the global economy of which we are part – to bring up the entrepreneurs that are necessary”. It wasn't so stupid to say, but it wasn't my words. Neither Jan Petersen's nor Carl I. Hagens, if anyone would believe it. The man behind the crystal clear statement that the tax ceiling had been reached was the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland. It is difficult to see that these positions characterise this government's proposal for a government budget. That the government in the budget for next year is proposing tax increases for business over DKK 10 billion, must mean one out of two. Either the central government's industrial policy was successful, or it means that we have a government that believes symbolic concessions to the left side of trade union movement and party are more important than a government budget that addresses Norway's long-term challenges when oil revenues end. The most striking thing about this year’s census is not what it says there, but what is not there. In key policy areas of the Left, the Labour Party has turned the other way around. Not least in environmental policy, where the census shows an almost total lack of ambition. It is a logical consequence of the way in which the Workers' Party came to power, but nevertheless alarming that the party passes the millennium with a partly passive, partly direct reactionary environmental policy – the very basis for the living conditions of future generations. During one week, the Government was able to present a national transport plan that does not address urban environmental and traffic problems, a government budget that makes public transport more expensive and cuts in alternative energy spending, and to provide gas power stations with a blank authorisation for free CO2 emissions. For the Left, it is totally unacceptable to be involved in a policy that, in sum, is as environmentally hostile as the Labour Party government is now demonstrating. Within what was supposed to be the government's taboo, the renewal of the public sector, you can talk about the mountain that gave birth to a mouse with the throne and the state budget. It is obvious that the government here took its own party on the bed and has had to make full retreat. The Bondevik government had much clearer ambitions in this area, and were among other things. well in progress with the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. Now this is parked, and simplification and renewal are missing. A third main area for the Left and the Government of Bondevik was research and an innovative small business-friendly business policy. Here, too, the Workers' Party has put the gear in reverse. The commitment to research and higher education is much lower than the research report provided, with the Workers' Party eagerly pushing on the unconcerned opposition days of the party. Still, the basic understanding of how value creation takes place in a new era where people can create their own jobs to a far greater extent than before. Tax policy in the state budget is nothing more than a poorly hidden call for the Norwegian people not to spend their savings on innovation and long-term investment in Norwegian jobs. At the same time, the Workers' Party will spend several billions on massive state purchases of existing enterprises. Together, this is becoming old-fashioned socialism and destructive to innovation and small businesses. With a massive state investment company as the main industrial policy instrument, it is the large groups with good channels of access to the corridors of power that take precedence. The Labour Party's uncompromising fight in recent years to provide IT fornebu and Fred. The oil sucks down into the treasury, obviously was just a warning of what was coming. The Left shares the Workers' Party's objective of fair distribution and social welfare policy. But fair distribution is not achieved through harmful symbol policies, where taking away from the rich is nothing but a policy to weaken small businesses, districts, Norwegian ownership and Norwegian-based innovation. The fight against poverty, care for the weakest and well-functioning health services is also likely to be achieved by more targeted instruments than cheaper spirits and meat. A particularly important area for the Left is a more offensive housing policy for young people and people with a weak economy. However, the left is positive that the Government is signalling the follow-up to the Sandman Committee's setting. We will support measures to facilitate access to the labour market for people who do not reach it today, for example: due to rigid rules on disability pension. But this cannot solve Norway’s labour needs alone. Why is the Government so reluctant to allow for increased labour migration? Is it the fear of the Progress Party or the resistance of the LO that the Government will not pursue an immigration policy that is crucial to solving important welfare tasks and preventing high interest rates in the short term, while at the same time getting a more diverse society and a new honest door to Norway? The Left hopes that the Alliance between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party in this area will soon crack, so that the Workers' Party will join and create a majority for a more open immigration policy. Whether this is a left-hand proposal that is distributed in the places, and which I am referring to here. In the Common Era, the Government says: ‘The fundamental values of our welfare society are the will for shared responsibility, solidarity and fair distribution.’ These are basic values for the left as well. However, unlike the social democrats, we believe that these are inevitably dependent on another basic value: individual freedom. Socialists see this freedom almost as a threat. A liberal sees freedom as the very prerequisite for sense of responsibility, community and genuine solidarity. It is precisely by taking freedom from peoples, as it is done in a social democratic model of society that is to regulate life from cradle to grave, to create a bed of powerlessness, materialism and egoism. The left wants to give individual people, community and institutions more freedom. Those who wear the shoe know best where it presses, and must be given confidence, not detailed control and control until the pointless. There is still the great ideological distinction between socialist and liberal thinking. Here lies the key to a more in-depth renewal of society than social democrats can think of from their technocratic social point of view. The left wants reforms for a new period of freedom. We'll make sure that choices for the individual are actually present, and refrain from interfering with the individual's life in offensive ways. Society needs to be adapted so that people are different and choose different solutions. The left will also have a policy that stimulates private creativity and value creation instead of hitting its legs. At the same time, a national education, research and culture commitment is needed to ensure that everyone is actually given the opportunity to develop their abilities and creativity. In these areas, we will have more – not less – public efforts. The practical policies of the government, as identified by the new state budget, unfortunately do not go in the right direction on the basis of any of these criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1308	Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1313	Sometimes when I hear the representative Sponheim, I get a certain feeling that he thinks he's the leader of a big party in a very difficult country, but the reality is different. When the Storting in our treated economy to the municipalities, the center parties said, rightly without the Left: ‘... a priority must be given to solving the most important welfare tasks rather than to increasing private consumption of those with the highest income and wealth.’ And on the other hand, «This can be done by reallocation from other sectors... by increasing taxes on large capital income.» Looking at the left draft of the program, it looks like the left supports this when they say: ‘Helping those who have at least a better life is more important than moving money between the vast majority of people who already live in material wealth.’ It is precisely this first Workers' Party in its approach to the development of Norway. That's why it's a little hard for me to know what the Left really wants when the Left's leader now uses a lot of energy to attack the Government's goal for a better Norway. And that's in particular the income side, taxes and taxes, the Left's leader is attacking. This is also very strange because it's especially what has a relationship with suggestions from the former central government, where Sponheim himself was involved. My question will then be: Does the representative Sponheim not see the need for a business cycle tax – which is the withdrawal of private consumption, which can reduce interest rates in today's economic situation for the country? He himself was concerned about giving freedom of choice. The lower interest rate is, of course, giving freedom of choice to individuals and businesses alike. And part of the proposals for the Workers' Party could just give it effect. So my question to Sponheim is, does he believe this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1332	Let me say to the first invitation, that I think I'm the leader of a big party in a big country: I think it's more right to say that I know I'm the leader of a party that stands for a great ideology in the country of opportunity. And that's what I'm trying to design and express a policy for. I'm concerned that we're going to have a real redistribution, but I don't accept this old-fashioned, social-democratic idea of doing something for the community, for which the Left is for, then you have to bring down the business, which is going to create income for the same community. It's this combination of social democracy always stands firm in it. But the point is to have a strong Community sector that takes care of the weakest in society – and we have many unsolved tasks, homes for young people, many who serve too little, etc. – yes, we must have a strong income side in society. That's a clear assumption. It may be possible in the short term to move some money, in the long term this is not good for the poorest. Therefore, we must be able to combine a strong Community sector with a commitment to value creation and business. It's gone in the budget presented here. Then it has to be real redistribution. But is what the Labour Party is doing in its proposal? Taxes on dividends on shares. Yeah, all of the ones that we really want to take, the ones with the big stock dividends, they're going to have a lot of ways around it, and we could probably spend a long time explaining how it can happen, but this leads to little or no real redistribution. The government itself says that it is on a very unclear basis that you estimate the revenue that lies here. And then for a business cycle tax, which is not on any profit, which is left after one has managed to cover its costs, but which goes right into the core of the costs of many of the most marginal businesses, namely paying for the labour force. It contributes to a reorganization program where the government, at least those who dare to talk about it honestly, has said quite clearly that the weakest companies have to give up in order to shift labour to the public sector. That's not a good solution. Here it is possible to imagine a redistribution, and we will come back to the budgetary procedure in the autumn how we can get a real redistribution where the extent of the injustice is high, between the low tax on capital income and the tax on labour income, which is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1345	The Left Party, with the parliamentary leader Lars Sponheim at the head, has long argued that they would better facilitate business in general and for small businesses in particular, which we also heard a few, but beautiful words about in the representative Sponheim's posts here today. Unfortunately, we saw little to this when the Left was in government, where the representative Sponheim also sat as Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Now, the situation is that the left is back in opposition, so now it might be easier to show that someone thinks something about it in party speeches and in other ways to better facilitate relationships for the business world. I would therefore like to challenge the representative, Sponheim, as follows: Will the Left already undertake to accept the proposed cyclical tax and the electricity charge for industry? And: Will the representative Sponheim support the Progress Party's proposal for a reduction in the diesel and petrol tax and be involved in and contribute to the rapid treatment of the proposal, so that both industry and people get the most fuel prices they can live with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1352	The President will remind you that this is not a financial debate, it will come later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1356	Let me first comment on this post office that Mr. Waksdal is presenting here, and as many with him have said in recent years, little happened in the field of industrial policy. When we see this state budget coming now, I think there are a lot of people who see here that there was an industrial policy that many people now want to go back to. And the interesting thing is, for example, what was actually happening during the Bondevik government period, namely that we got a flare in a huge growth in the business form field. Many people have said that we did not succeed in getting it down. I admit that we failed to get it down, but we got to a flare. Now we can see the statistics, and it shows how the countries around us, which have exactly the same evolution, have had a formidable increase in the years when we were able to get this out. So something interesting has happened that has been noticed internationally. This is an investment that was made by Bondevik's government, and this is something we're excited about whether today's government is able to maintain, or whether we're going into the same crazy form carousel that the countries around us in Northern Europe are inside. I think many in the business world now experience that when they see the state budget that has emerged from a government that does not conduct a business-friendly policy. Yes, the Left will fight this increased employer’s fee during the autumn budgetary procedure. That's the opposite of what we've been dealing with every year, that's a shift from red taxes to green taxes, that's to tax what's bad and we should use less of in Norwegian society. That's why we're going to fight the cyclical tax. But it's something fundamentally different from the governance tax that we have to do on the agenda of the environment. The left is in favour of a good industrial policy, which many people want in this country, and we are in favour of a good environmental policy, which many people want, but which the Progress Party does not stand for; they are in favour of the dramatic opposite of what the Left stands for. So we want to use the charging system to stimulate companies to produce environmentally friendly, to have environmentally friendly behaviour, not to confiscate money, but to give them back in other areas that stimulate environmentally friendly production. Therefore, it makes sense – and it is one of the few things that I can say really makes sense from what the government has proposed – to spend on an increase in the electricity charge. The electricity charge has to rise in Norway to stimulate alternative energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1363	It was an interesting observation the representative Brørby had made, she had the impression that it was a party leader for a large party in a large country. Now I don't believe in any way that Sponheim wants to create such an impression, but I can't say he's trying hard to drive it back. But he went through part of these pennies from the Bondevik government's time, and I must also give him the right in that much is good intentions, some were done, and some more could certainly have been done, I see in no way away from that. In a previous exchange of lines today, Enoxen said that it was clear in the Bondevik government in the autumn of 1999 that entering into a budgetary settlement with the Workers' Party in a way could be a sort of first step towards the liquidation of his own regime. And given that Sponheim also saw this, I must say that one acted very unreasonablely, and not only unreasonablely, but in reality assumed that there would actually be a policy in retrospect that would harm Norwegian business, which he has now talked about. Because we know what the result was of this budget agreement, there are four interest increases, while the effect of the two previous budgets, which Sponheim and the rest of the government with good reason went around and boasted of, was that everything that was going to go up, went up, and everything that was going to go down, went down. My question to Sponheim is: So he saw this, and how could Sponheim, if he saw what Enoxsen saw, participate in a budget settlement in the autumn of 1999, where the choice of partner was actually to sign his own death certificate? How could he help weaken the Bondevik government's ability to continue? That's what Enoch says, you saw that choosing a partner would mean a weakened chance of survival. How, then, could we, given the results we had seen from the previous two years' budget, choose what seemed to be the least attractive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1374	There could have been much said about the assessments made in the previous government last autumn, given the options and opportunities ahead of the government. If I don't want to use the same words as my good colleague Enoch has used, then I would say that from my point of view we knew that we moved into a somewhat more uncertain waters after we entered into budgetary settlements with those who were most keen on taboo rights, if nothing else, when it came to government power, namely the Workers' Party. But we probably didn't have any idea that the Right was so eager to present such a budget as we have now had in terms of business and tax increases, that they were concerned about – as eager as we were to see them over the spring – changing government. And now when we have a throne debate that sums up half a year with a new government, which was a consequence of the Right Voting here in the Chamber, both the Right and the People who follow a debate like this, should think through the situation we are in, it was not possible for the Workers' Party to get to it alone, it was totally dependent on the active help that the Right helped to get this government. And those around Norway who are now dismayed by increased employers' fees, tax on dividends and very much other things that celebrate innovation out of Norway should also be able to send a small thought to the Right representatives in this room, who actively contributed to the fact that there is a rather heavy budgetary base to start on to create a budget for the country. That's probably the story of the last year that led to the situation we're in now, which some of us could have happened, but we didn't think the Right would actually be in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1381	There will be something pompous and violent when Sponheim describes the situation for Norwegian business. It's not today's business we're going to live off when the oil ends. Over the course of a 20-year period, we know that 800,000 new jobs need to be created in Norway, and the oil age has a lifetime far beyond that, so that the jobs we will live on when the oil ends are not today's jobs. The business cycle fee is primarily a matter of redistributing. It has little impact on jobs. It is possible that job closure will be faster than without this charge, but that this charge will have the consequences that Sponheim is trying to describe, it is exaggerating. We know that there have been large profits in business in recent years, and then it's right and fair that it is transferred from the private sector to the public sector to solve the many tasks we have in the public sector. So over to what's really my question. It is a matter of environmental policy. Today’s government is leading a ‘reactive environmental policy’, Sponheim said. Then we can discuss the term «reactionary», but I agree with him that in terms of gas power, we are on the wrong roads, and also in terms of petrol and diesel taxes, we are on the wrong roads. But a green policy needs Sponheim. Is it green policy to reduce the diesel tax and the petrol tax? We know that there is a link between price and consumption, and a lower price of petrol and diesel will increase the consumption and therefore the emission of CO2 gas. Is that a good environmental policy? And is it a reactionary environmental policy, as was tried to describe the Government's environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1394	It must be allowed to use the engine you have, to channel the involvement you may have, and then the representative Rikham must characterize what he wants. No, there are many uncreated jobs we're going to live on. And what do these unborn businesses need today? Well, they're going to need capital. What does the Labour Party do with its draft budget? Well, they say that you have savings capital, the tax system should be such that the savings capital should not go to the corporations, but go to capital deposits or something else because it provides lower taxes. That is what is actually happening with this proposal on tax on dividends, over which SV is cheering. This means that no one will place their savings capital in these new businesses that are coming, and it is the weak businesses in the first few years that work the most, among other things. with the labour costs. What do you do with this cyclical tax? Well, you actually put a grace blow on the companies that are not yet born, and that are going to live a two-three-four-five years without being able to deliver profits. And they're not going to get capital. Then I agree that we need a green environmental policy, and we want to cooperate with SV on that. But at least it is not a green policy to contribute to making public transport more expensive and the use of private cars cheaper. The sum of these two impacts is an unusually reactionary environmental policy. But that's something that's absolutely crucial, and I'd like to spend a few seconds saying it. There was a very interesting postulate born here on Wednesday by the Minister of Finance. I think someone called it the "Law of the Schjøtten" because it was interesting how much space was left in the glass and not what was left in the bottle. I very much agree with the Minister of Finance on that. But it can also be transferred to the CO2 account. The glass is full, we're going to reduce it, but on Friday the same finance minister blew up CO2 in that glass. Mass has to go out, and then it won't be like this summer, when Norwegian owners of cars irritated the petrol pumps and drove election campaign propaganda for Hagen; we're going to experience stops on the pumps, and there's a note saying "Kyoto obligations" and "quotes". That is the payment for the gas power decisions, which the Norwegian people have not yet heard of. And then the drivers will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1403	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1406	Of course, one should be very careful to minimize the political contradictions and perceptions of the Storting. However, having heard representatives from all parties in this debate, there must be reason to have some cautious optimism about the possibility of forming cooperative constellations that form the majority in this Chamber, whether it be the budgetary procedure or other important issues we are facing. It is not an idyll, but it is at least an objective political tone that puts in sharp relief the problems others are wriggling with in these days. Yugoslavia is, hopefully, on the road to democracy, although I agree with those who have also said in this debate that there are many and important steps before this democracy is guaranteed. The Middle East has also been given some attention. And for my part, I would like to say the following: Of course, it's true that it's those who have the most powerful means of power, who have the greatest responsibility when people and children are shot in the streets, but if we were to make this a kind of battle over who should be the most condemnive in all situations, we have to think of one thing. Norway has been able to make an important contribution in the Middle East through the Oslo process because we have had confidence on both sides in this difficult conflict. It is this trust we must maintain, and it is in relation to the outcome, to achieve lasting peace in the Middle East, all our political efforts must seek. Of course, the fact that I say that there is a hope of possible cooperation in the light of the debate we have had so far does not mean that one underestimates the difficulties that lie there. But it is striking that, with regard to the main tasks we are going to do, the main tasks on the expenditure side of the budget are a relatively broad consensus on what should be given priority. There the government has probably done well by its own priorities in this area. It's also partly a follow-up to what other parties have prioritised. Then we'll get to grips with how this is to be financed. But most importantly, of course, we're financing it in a way that doesn't mean we lose other important things along the way. The finance minister has said, and like Sponheim, I like to quote him, that the most important thing is what goes in the glass, not what's left in the bottle. I have the impression that most debaters and actors in this room understand. So that means that even if oil revenue increases, even if the dollar price goes up, and even if the oil price is at a historically high level, it doesn't just mean that there's more going on in the glass. That doesn't mean we automatically get more and better teachers. It doesn't automatically mean that we get more and better doctors and nurses. It doesn't automatically mean that money can solve the problems we're facing. But that means that if we overexploit the oil economy we have, we can cause irreparable damage to the interest rate, which may be the most important thing for the private economy of ordinary people and for a number of other areas. There has been a lot of talk in this debate about how Hagen has spent oil money up and down in his rhetoric in recent years. But there is still a satisfactory answer to how he wants to solve the real problems facing Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1421	As this is the last centenary debate in this period, there is an excellent opportunity for me to draw some conclusions and point to some things that the Coastal Party has been and is incredibly important. National ownership is and will be one of the most important factors for us. We are a nation reaping from natural resources, which is the basis for all the wealth we have in this country. I don't just think about fishing and fishing. But what would Norway have been without us having the oil resources to harvest today? It is also a natural resource, although it is not renewable. We have sea areas seven times the mainland of Norway. Then it's with wonder that I'm recording that the defense is to be dismantled. We have received the Defense Study 2000, which the Chief of Defense has been commissioned to investigate. How much defense do we get for 25 billion dollars? What's amazing is that central politicians interpret this as if it's the Chief of Defense's recommendation of what kind of defense we need. The Chief of Defense has not been assigned to that task. He has been asked to point out what we get for NOK 25 billion. It's about preserving our sovereignty. It's about showing the flag. It's about being out in the ocean and showing that we're able to take care of the resources that we're over. The Coast Guard, for example. missing 25 million. kr in the draft government budget submitted to maintain the activity from last year. In a short period of time, it shall be decided whether Reitan should remain as Headquarters of Defence in North Norway. Einar Skorgen, a senior commander, has said it so clearly that if Reitan is shut down, the defense in North Norway is gone. Some will be very satisfied with that. I don't doubt that. But at least it's against our perception. There is today a bit for bit-sales of Norway. We have a surplus on the State budget of NOK 192 billion. Nevertheless, it is about selling national assets, selling natural resources. The last shot on the stem is the proposal of the Minister for Fisheries to auction out the new salmon concessions. I have to put a big question mark on the legality of it. Does the State really have the opportunity to confiscate large areas of the sea in the municipalities? Does not the Planning and Building Act and the Planning of Land Area have jurisdiction over its areas? Can the State really go out and auction out land? Because that's what happens when you auction out concessions. I doubt it. I think it's an entirely behind-the-scenes proposal. Who is it then left open for? Well, they're listed companies. They're big giants. It's a fund. There may as well be people on the New York Stock Exchange who run the farming industry in Finnmark or in Tysfjord, or in Austevoll. My question is, is that how we're going to feel? The state has already confiscated the free circulation. There's nothing called free fishing anymore. It is not yet auctioned but distributed. I guess it's just a matter of time before we talk about buying rights. Already in concessional fisheries, you have to buy in. It is also a matter of time, if you don't have a law, before the same listed companies will buy up in the fishing industry. And with the EU adaptation and to the extent that the MAI adaptation that was going on, it is also a matter of time before we have cheap labour working both on farms and in the fishing fleet, while the traditional fishermen and the people who work there have to sit and watch. For capital, the maximum return on its investments is required. On Thursday we will deal with a new law, the law on water resources. Then the country makes a new attempt to confiscate the private ownership of water. Is this an attempt to prejudge the debate and the requirements of the joint debate on the right to land and water? If the law is passed on Thursday, the state has been empowered to expropriate and deprive people of the right to water. Then together has also lost their right. They tried in connection with the mineral law, but it was so obvious that people discovered it, so that law was revoked. It's amazing that the Center Party is an architect for this. In the state budget, it's eminently omitted that we need new charts. I was on my dock the other day, and then I looked up in a roll of cards that lay there. It was maps from 1863. This is the survey that was carried out in 1863, we are still sailing on large parts of the coast of Norway – maps up to 140 years old! Norway’s maritime mapping works need approx. 400 million. kr to update the chart and to create an electronic chart. To illustrate, there is just as much money as the increase in grants to kindergartens in the draft budget submitted. So you can consider, is that a lot of money? Is that some money? For the Navy, there's a lot of money, but on the state budget, there's a museum in the sea. In terms of coastal safety, it's almost unreal that it's not being prioritised. The problem, however, is that the Swedish Maritime Agency is located under the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It's a matter I'd like to raise that's incredibly important, which comes to treatment in Stortinget, and which is today a hot topic between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence. There are new rescue helicopters. The Fostervoll committee has presented a setting for the kind of rescue helicopters we're going to have. We shall have rescue helicopters that take at least 20 passengers and have a crew of five. This has been decided by the Storting. Nevertheless, there is intense effort to create a unit helicopter to meet the requirements of the Coast Guard, the frigates and the Army – a helicopter to be adapted to everything. And when it's about the action radius, one says we can pause with a larger number. If the helicopter has an action radius of 150 nautical miles and the Hagarist is 250 nautical miles of farms, it won't help if you put in ten helicopters, they only get 150 nautical miles out, while two helicopters that have an action radius of 250 nautical miles, could do the job. With regard to the proposal to reduce the helicopter crew from five to four, it has already been tried. It was tried when we got Sea King. The proposal was totally unsustainable. You had to go back to five. When these matters are under consideration, you have to engage. People who sail at sea, the oil industry, everyone who travels at sea, are entitled to a proper rescue service. We must be able to maintain a rescue service independently of the Defense. This is also not inflationary, for the helicopters are to be purchased from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1453	No one has asked for the word in reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1456	In his statement on the 2001 state and national budget, Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen did not have a single word about the importance of the roads for Norwegian business and the settlement in our country – not a single word. Transportation and good roads were totally absent, and his posts lasted almost an hour. The Minister of Finance must thus be able to go into the history of Norway’s first finance minister who has made such a long presentation without mentioning road construction in one word. The Minister of Finance has even been elected from North Norway. Today, the Norwegian road network appears to be a road network in some developing country and not in the oil nation of Norway. We have the worst road network in Western Europe, and soon even Eastern Europe is ahead of us in a better road standard. Only the lag on the road standard has now reached an incredible 8 billion kroner. The main road network, which is our main road network, appears to be a patchwork of small stubble instead of well-developed two- and four-field motorways, such as our neighbouring country Sweden has. Last year's transport policy has been so totally absent and worn out that it is a horror. It is sad that the Labour Party government will never understand that it is in these rich times that we can and should expand our road network to meet the time after the oil age. In fact, the Workers' Party has built up the road network for many small islands, costing what it will cost. Well, we might afford it in the oil country of Norway, but it gets a little weird when we've spent a whole hundred million. kr on a tunnel to Nordkap, while in the year’s proposal for road development by the State it is worth 38 million. kr on our main year of navigation, E6 Oslo-Svinesund. About 2000 in the construction industry is out of work today. These are people who can't be put into kindergarten development, even if the prime minister wanted to. These are well-qualified people in road construction, and that's what they're good at. In addition, we have a lot of people in the Road Service who actually also know this with road construction. The need for fast and good roads for business is also well known. So Norway has the need, we have the free capacity to expand, and above all, we have the money. It is then a little strange for me to read the Workers' Party's proposal for a budget for transport. It's no longer gray, it's black. Norway should immediately set in motion a large-scale expansion of the four-field motorway on the E6 Oslo-Svinesund, E6 Oslo-Trondheim and E18 Oslo-Kristiansand, and around the cities of Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, and with large sections of the road network in and around Oslo as the six-field motorway. Furthermore, the rest of the main road network should be expanded with the Class B motorway as a minimum standard. Of course, large parts with high daily traffic should be Class A. I am aware that this will lead to considerable costs, but do we as a nation at all afford not to do so? In order to cope with this neglected expansion, which has been neglected for many years, the state has to add a minimum of NOK 2-3 billion per. years. In addition, we need to open up an extensive OPS extension – Public Private Cooperation. We have companies that want and can build both domestic and foreign, we have free capacity in the construction industry, and above all, we have the money. All we're missing are future visions and will from large parts of this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1477	The Christian People's Party will also facilitate a different value creation than the material one. People need stable relationships and social networks. Individuals — young and old — need unity. Individualism, and to an even greater extent egoism, of which our time is strongly influenced, is a threat to man's social needs. The Christian People's Party believes that the family is the basic unit of cohesion. There, children and young people learn about values, care and social inclusion. So society must make good arrangements for the family. Of course, this applies to all families: couples with children, single-parent families and single-parent families. There is reason to stop and make some reflections about family challenges in tomorrow's society. The family pattern has changed radically in the last 30 years. The notion of the family as something timeless and of course not true when we look back on our history and to other parts of the world. In 1950, for example, only 5.5 pst. by married women in Norway in gainful employment. Today it is approx. 81 pst. by women between 25 and 54 years of age in gainful employment. There has been a quiet revolution, with great consequences for children, women and men. Even newer is the law of partnership, which was adopted in 1993. In 1998, 122 partnerships were registered in Norway, and 13 pst. by lesbian women and 8 pst. by gay men have children. Divorce patterns in 1998 suggest that 42 pst. of the younger marriages will end in divorce. There has been a great deal of focus on increasing numbers of children experiencing the negative consequences of divorce. Research shows that the most marked difference between cohabitation and marriage is in the danger of a crime. In nine out of ten cases, there are fathers who are not bowing with their children after fractures. In other words, we see new family patterns and new challenges. At the same time, it's important to emphasize that 80 pst. of all children in Norway grew up with both mother and father. However, the single parent family is the type of family that increases most. All in all, this situation presents us with an additional challenge when it comes to thinking about the future of their children's best in families that, for various reasons, are extra vulnerable. What is then said in the Commons about how the Government will meet these challenges I have outlined? It is positive that the Government will present a growing-up and living conditions message for children and young people in Norway. The central government provided a good basis for an offensive family and gender equality policy. The government will also build more kindergartens and evaluate cash support. It's interesting to note that what was described as a puzzling pediatric bet, now has become an offensive policy. I hope the government has noticed how popular the cash support has become with young children's parents. The last number shows that 75 pst. of those who have children of a cash-assisted age benefit from it. Nearly two thirds of the children for whom a cash subsidy was received were mainly matched by parents. Cash support has come to stay. But what is the government's holistic family policy thinking for the future? Family policy has never been an independent policy area for the Labour Party. It now appears to be a major weakness, because we are all facing a more complicated family pattern than before. The family is under strong pressure. Family policy exists in the field of tension between individual and community, individual and society, private and public, and between stalls and arrangements. That is why we need a forward-looking family policy with more than single actions. So a little bit about culture. Culture gives insight and builds bridges between people and nations. Cultural experiences and artistic experiences lead to an increase in the quality of life, and therefore we must give all the peoples a good opportunity to do so. In the Common Era, much attention was focused on the renewal of the public sector. I lack the focus and acceptance of the important and good work volunteer organisations represent within culture and other areas of society. Has the Government ignored the important role of voluntary organisations in local democracy, including the as important value and tradition intermediaries? The Christian People's Party believes that voluntary organisations are involved in developing individual and social characteristics for participation in society. Voluntary organisations have been important value and tradition intermediaries, not least to children and young people. It is important that these become very good framework conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10.ana.ud808e1495	The time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately up. We're now cancelling the meeting, and we're going to set a new meeting at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
