ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e29	The representatives of Haakon Blankenburg, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the West-Agder province: Dagrun Eriksen For the state of Hedmark: Helge Bjørnsen For the province of Hordaland: Terje Søviknes and Magnar Lussand For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For Oslo: Anders C. Shaastad and Heikki Holmås For Sogn and Fjordane County: Gunn Steinhovden For the Telemark counties: Thorleif Vikre For Vestfold County: Anders Anundsen From the representative Karin Andersen there is a notice that the application for a permit granted for the period from 26 May to 31 May is hereby amended to cover the period from 26 May to 30 May only. – This message is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e88	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament for next week’s meetings – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e93	I allow myself to propose Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e98	Kenneth Svendsen has been proposed as president. Other proposals are not available, and Kenneth Svendsen is unanimously elected president of the meetings in the coming weeks. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that case No. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e121	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and up to five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e132	Having heard the Minister of Culture's first and the second media policy statement in Stortinget, I'm beginning to get a little calmed down. It is known in this case that the Workers' Party has been skeptical about replacing the annual messages with this statement, but now I think the form is starting to be good. The Minister for Culture made a meaningful statement, and took the necessary steps to implement media policy quickly. It is clear that we have been given leadership in the Ministry of Culture, which is committed to having a high level of ambition in media policy, and at the same time clearly defines media policy as part of our cultural policy – perhaps the most important, at least the most dynamic part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture – which has the power to weaken cultural policy objectives if we do not take clear action and governance from political groups. I record that the Minister of Culture has ambitions to do so. What's bothered me for years is the inability of government offices and also of the Stortinge to see how technological developments go across our traditional responsibilities. When the Ministry of Transport begins to provide clear leadership for cultural policy through networks, convergence and framework conditions, and culture is equally active in both transport and industrial policy, extensive cooperation is required. The same is true of the Storting. Digitalisation of the media will follow parallel digitalisation in the rest of society, and what kind of network transports a signal may not be the most important thing. It stands in stark contrast to what we experience in the analogue world, where transmitters have to be built if people are to get a signal. It is not that easy to get an overview of this, which is not least revealed when proposals are made for the differentiation of licences and for the compulsory development of certain channels. In fact, it could contribute to a delay in the spread of digital technology and thus ensure that districts are primarily at the back end of broadband development. Of course, it is popular, perhaps especially in our own constituencies, to claim something like this, but I think that as politicians we also have a responsibility to see the whole of this. In the IT statement, which we discussed here last week, it was emphasised that the Workers' Party has a goal of making the technology available in all parts of the country. Then it's important to remember that it's not a net type that is necessarily the important, but the sum of the network types. In addition, I have repeatedly stressed that it is an independent goal for the Workers' Party that districts will also have access on many more channels, as the central struts have had it for years. Then I think it becomes a little obvious that there are district representatives in this room who are concerned about going against this. It says a little bit about how difficult and challenging this area is. Now, however, there is reason to stress that in the context of the NRK2 and the debate on licensing, there were clear leads for popular applications to be made available to all, and then through NRK1. It's been NRK so far, and I expect the same practice to be carried on. But the Storting has nothing to do with the content, so we get to keep our fingers far away. The same problem I have also encountered in connection with P2's morning broadcasts, which it is impossible to get into the north. I assume that the NRK will find a solution, because it is of course in the interests of the company that people listen to what they are actually sending. In the context of the debate on the digital TV message, we in the Workers' Party stressed that in half a year we should decide what kind of broadcasting platform should be the basis. Developments have shown us that there is likely to be a solution that includes several different platforms and that uses free capacity where it is available at all times. This makes national coverage much easier and cheaper than we could fear. Now it is important that the digital terrestrial network is also realised, so that it can help pushe developments on the broadband side. Not least, it will be important and perhaps also crucial for the districts. I think the Minister of Culture is giving clear and good leadership for it, and I hope it is possible to get it to quite quickly. In the debate on the previous media act, I tried to add some leads to the individual issues dealt with by the Ownership Authority. When the Council of State now signals that it is time to move forward on the line that Stortinget has pulled up, and look at the possibilities of allowing regulation to include electronic media, I think that's quite right. However, it is important that this happens in such a way that it does not hamper the development of new media — but with the experience we have gradually gained with new media, there is little reason to fear that it will happen. That's how much reading we're presented for when the Public Broadcasting Council is presenting its advice to us. It is good to see that the development has started again on TV 2, and I will not at all wonder why it has taken so long. But I expect you to follow up on the facts presented to the concessionaires who do not meet the requirements. Now so many years have passed since the start of the concession periods that you should eventually get into the goal. The end of concession periods is approaching in fact, and in that context, it's okay that processes start. It has been wanted by Stortinget for almost two years. It is for a long time until the concessions expire, but it is important for the actors to get clarifications quickly. We fully support what the Minister of Culture has put forward in this area. That also means that we are opposed to the proposals of the Progress Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber. Digital development is one of the reasons, when we know how capital-intensive it can be. The requirements that need to be set in that context and on which the Council of State was involved will contribute to further strengthening the possibilities of Norwegian culture. I think, to preserve Norwegian language, traditions and culture, you're totally dependent on choosing an offensive line. We have opportunities, and we can't just focus on the domestic market if we're going to achieve the goals we set. That leads me right into film policy as the perhaps most obvious example. There's a lot going on in Norwegian movies and film environments right now. Now it's actually up to us gradually to be able to add the frames that are needed to secure a place in the film sky. It will also be a good business policy. It requires one thing: a level of production that ensures continuity and development. In this context, it's also important to look at how we use movies in school. We have a great curriculum in this area, it's just about getting someone to take it seriously every now and then. At the same time, it's also important to watch movies as it really is: a work of art, a miracle in line with what we find in other parts of Culture-Norway. Then it's suspicious to see to what extent we're still running censorship of art expressions. I've said it before, and I survived as far as that time too: it's been a long time since we removed the censorship of pictures and books. Maybe it's time at least to give the movie arenas where it can also be shown as the art expression it is. Yesterday came the setting of the Daily Press Committee. It states and confirms, to the extent that the Workers' Party has claimed for several years, that the development of press support is a safe path to newspaper death. If possible, in order to repair some of the damage that has occurred, this sample proposes to grant 100 million. kr extra for the press stand. After I understand, it must happen next year in order to minimise the damage. Yeah, it'll be a bit of a challenge for us. Then there may be some reason to look at how it can be financed, because it is not certain that the social economists are cheering for this proposal. It's kind of not the signals we're getting from that group right now. I think it's unwise to start giving very clear signals today at the recordings we got from the Hill Committee yesterday, but one thing is at least clear: the situation is serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e166	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e169	To the representative Alstad: As long as we have NRK1 and NRK2, and approx. 600,000 people don't get the signals from NRK2, it's no wonder that many are furious. You feel like you're paying for a product you don't get, compared to other licensors. Hasn't the representative recorded that the General Broadcasting Council also says that the NRK must be careful with an extensive programme sharing between the two television channels as long as the coverage of NRK2 is low in parts of the country? There has also recently been a major rotation of programmes from NRK1 to NRK2 and that NRK2 has become the film channel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e176	I have a great deal of understanding that it feels unfair, among other things. Because I'm one of those people who don't get NRK2 in. That is precisely why the Stortinget informed in its time that the NRK2 was not to be charged to the licensees, it was to be realised within the framework that was already there, precisely because not everyone would be able to get it in. I'm not going to go into a program discussion about how the editor of the NRK chooses to program his channel, I'm just recording that the Danish Broadcasting Council is pleased that they meet the public broadcasting objectives. I'm counting on, and I'm assuming, Storting's intentions when we created NRK2 are also being followed up by NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e183	The Christian People's Party is also committed to ensuring, like the representative Alstad, cultural policy considerations and cultural policy influence over the more telecommunications and competition policy aspects of media policy. In addition, we are very concerned about helping to find tools that can prevent Norwegian media recipients from being exposed to what might be called an injuring influence. In my reply, I would like to ask the representative Alstad about how he views this. He mentioned film in particular, and he gave the impression that almost all the films have to be considered as artistic expressions. But there are also well known productions that have very negative content. How does Alstad see that we can ensure a good cultural policy impact on media policy in the light of the aspects I mentioned? I also want to ask a question that goes on this with the announcement of the TV 2 concession. I noticed that the representative Alstad said the 'concessions', i.e. in a majority, but I didn't notice if he also mentioned the radio. Should P4's concession also be outsourced? Will the representative Alstad recommend the Minister to do so? A third question that we have been concerned about in the past, and that I want to ask the representative Alstad, goes along with the terms of the concession when these concessions are announced. We have previously agreed that we should also base the applications of concessionaires as part of the concession terms. Will the representative Alstad confirm that we still stand together to think in those paths?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e194	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party – and I will be surprised if there are any other people who have a different starting point – determines that culture should go ahead of technology. It's just to find the system that enables us to use technology in such a way that we strengthen the culture, so that we don't experience the opposite. Because there's a very obvious danger that that's exactly what can happen. So over to this with offensive influences. I remember that the representative Lånke and the undersigned had a discussion about this earlier from this pulpit. I don't think it's either my job or Stortinget's job to go in and define what is artistic expression in film. We've actually created bodies that are able to deal with this. The government's film surveillance has clear leads for them to go in and make these assessments, and I think the state's film surveillance is in a good development in this way. But there you have to start taking a little bit more into account what is the serious art. The existence of areas within AV production that are speculative and commercial should not go beyond those that actually work seriously with film as an artistic expression. With regard to the TV 2 concession and, where appropriate, the use in relation to the radio, I expect the concessionaires to be treated fairly equally. But I would recommend that the representative ask the question to those who are right for it, because, as I said, it is not Storting’s job – we may not have said that either – to go into the details of this. It is the department of the concession authority that is to take care of. I expect that the representative will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e203	The representative Alstad was in his post concerned that the film was work of art, copyright, and he was busy getting the film into school. He said little about the reorganisations and changes in Norwegian film policy announced by the Minister of Culture in his presentation. Earlier in this spring in Stortinget, the Minister of Culture confirmed in the spontaneous Question Time that the report by Ernst & Young was to be part of the basis for the review of film policy. The representative Alstad spent a lot of time and energy criticising this report and saying that it should not be given weight. Does the representative of Alstad now think that the report from Ernst & Young should be given priority? Does he think that there is anything at all in this report that should be emphasised, or is it such that the representative Alstad will leave to the film environment himself to design the film policy and support mechanisms, as he has previously mentioned? Then the representative Alstad was – naturally not so much – within the Daily Press Committee, which presented its position yesterday. One of the main conclusions there was, as expected, that they would have more in press support, more in production aid, 100 million. kr extra, especially to save no. The two papers. The question is then, because Alstad had a slightly cryptic remark in his post that this should really keep away from the social economists – I don't know if it was the prime minister he then thought about: What is Alstad going to give priority to? Will he give priority to stepping up press support in a pressed cultural budget, or will he give priority to cultural allocations, to which there is more than enough need to grant? In the choice between stepping up press support and securing cultural appropriations, what will Alstad support?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e212	There are some lines that require the entire talk, so I'll take it gradually. But that's one thing I forgot about Loan's line. These are the terms of the concession and the grounds on which the application is to be made. The Labour Party has been clear on this before, and we're still just as clear on it. Then go to the movies. The Ernst & Young report, which the previous government started, and which made some conclusions, I have put very little emphasis on, and I will continue to do so. I do not think it provides an overall review of film policy, and that is what we could have needed first and foremost – that we could also have seen film policy along with cinema policy. We didn't get that, but it's now. The fact that the Ernst & Young report has managed to bring some obvious conclusions that have wandered around the system for a long time will be such a matter. I'm a little unsure whether it's because of luck, or whether it's because you've actually managed to think about it. But it is clear that some of the conclusions contained in the Ernst & Young report will be followed up. They would have been followed up whether the report had been there or not. Now I've never suggested that the film environments themselves do the job, but I've called for recordings from the film environments on this, not least to get independent to go through our entire film policy in a proper way. And as far as I remember, the Labour Party and the Right also stood together on part of the remarks in the budgetary procedure. Then you move into the position of the Daily Press Committee and ask if we should give priority to press support or culture. It's not so strange that the Right does it, because the Right has never defined the newspapers below the Cultural Area. You just want to put them down. And then you're going to leave to the market to keep some newspapers going. For the Workers' Party, it has always been an important cultural policy objective to have a diversity in the newspaper environment, and we believe that this is important for Norwegian languages, for Norwegian culture, for Norwegian traditions and not least for identity. But that discussion will give us the full opportunity to come back to when the budget is under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e225	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e229	Minister of Culture Ellen Horn said in his statement on Tuesday, May 16, 2000 that we are living in a media revolution, that it affects us all all the time, and that it is a reflection of the changes that have occurred in society. This, of course, is a proper consideration. The further question is how and to what extent we, as politicians, should be involved in steering this development. Of course, we can take the whole job and get a development the majority of politicians want, through transfers, regulations, economics, etc. Then we might have a society that, according to the view of the Progress Party, is largely not desirable. A society must be based on the wishes of its inhabitants about how they want their everyday lives, and their ability to reach them. The majority must then be taken into account to a large extent, while at the same time respecting the wishes of the few. Now you can sometimes think it's the opposite. Today, of course, IT competence is divided differently, and the Progress Party understands that those who want to acquire such competence must have the opportunities to do so. The price of IT products has been greatly reduced, while access to education has increased. A more comprehensive infrastructure is also expected. This will give individuals a more equal opportunity to get what they want, whether they are entertainment, knowledge or information, regardless of where they are in the country. The same applies to work related to technology. This means that you become more and more independent of where you live as technology reaches and expands. In the case of one of the oldest media in recent times, the newspapers, these have not been noticeably changed in the last ten years. ==References== 80 pst. the population uses this medium and averages 33 minutes each day to read newspapers. One might say that the daily press has renewed to some extent and also clearly the technological and market changes in a good way. Some politicians claim that this is thanks to the press support, and of course this can be right, but we don't know how the papers were doing without this support, which came in 1969. Maybe we had a different and better newspaper world then. Although the Progress Party has not achieved an impact on its view on the closure of the production supplement over a period of two years, the Stortinget has reduced the aid in the last two years without noticeably reducing the number of newspapers. This is probably a debate that will be exciting in the future as well. The point of view of the Progress Party is that the most important thing must be to have a press that is economically completely independent of the politicians. Only then will we get a completely free press. This will benefit everyone. So another important and popular media actor, the local radio. Norway probably has about a quarter of its population. 200 large and small local radios with an innumerable staff, some paid, but most of them unpaid. This shows an enormous amount of effort, which you need to create enough programs for a day and not least get an economy so that the fixed costs can be controlled. A local radio is often tied up in the community. This is where big and not least small issues are addressed, which means a lot to them. Here you have the opportunity to get messages, listen to local programs, music, competitions, bingo, etc. This is also a medium that can give messages to the population very quickly. We received that, among other things. have experienced during the great flood of the East for a few years. Then the local radio was invaluable both in terms of locality and flexibility. The current framework is largely satisfactory, but certain adjustments may be desirable. Close and constructive cooperation is important here. Otherwise, before I go over to comment on TV and its tearing development, I would like to say something about Norwegian film production and cinema screening as a result of this. It goes without saying that as a movie on the cinema has won a competition, the number of visitors will decrease somewhat, but if we compare ourselves to the other Nordic countries, we still have a fairly high visit. What worries someone, obviously not the Progress Party to such an extent, is where the film is produced. Norwegian film has a market share of approx. 9 pst. The Progress Party believes that this shows that we in Norway are not good enough to produce films that Norwegian cinematographers want, and that should be noted by filmmakers. Therefore, to the extent that we need it, Norwegian film support should have strict demands on the quality we expect, as well as on the possibilities for people to want and want to see the type of film to be produced – this, of course, under the condition that they need support. So over to public broadcasting, and this is the case as NRK, TV 2 and P4, which operates its programme activities according to this principle. In this context, the GSC has the task of advising the Ministry that the principles are being followed. The Progress Party notes that the Public Broadcasting Council objects to the transmission of insufficient programmes in minority languages on the national network. Otherwise, the Council says that the NRK must be careful with extensive programme sharing between the two television channels as long as the coverage of NRK2 is low in parts of the country. In the case of the new nostril section, the Council considers that it is too low in NRK1, P1 and P2. The desire is approx. 25 p.m., but this seems somewhat too high in the view of the Progress Party when it is known that the proportion of the population of Norway who uses this writing language is significantly lower. Back to NRK and NRK2. The Party of Progress has registered the increasing transmission of applications from NRK to NRK2. In fact, a program has been divided between NRK and NRK2, and the NRK also says that NRK2 has now become their new film channel. When we know that approx. 260 000 licensors, i.e. approx. 600 000 people, do not get in this channel and thus have to go to the step of buying a satellite dish and satellite dish card, or connecting to a cable network, this seems unfair. Originally, the licence fee was defined as a fee for having a television set, but we know that today this fee is earmarked for the production of programmes and the operation of the NRK. For this reason, the Progress Party believes that these are approx. 260 000 licensees should receive a lower fee, i.e. that the NRK licence fee is differentiated according to the possibilities available to people to receive NRK1 and NRK2 over the regular transmission network, and thus promotes proposals to this effect. So to TV 2 and their concession. This will expire in 2002, and it will be necessary to decide within this period who will receive it, what content should be at the bottom and what should be the cost of this concession. The current TV 2 concession does not guarantee renewal, but indicates that renewal will be normal. Under the EEA Agreement, we are now obliged to publish this concession. The Party of Progress does not wish to determine who will receive it, but that the State should have certain counter-performances. This is that the general broadcasting principle is applied and that the concession is auctioned on the open market to a maximum bidder. Then we get a TV channel with a varied program, and hopefully we get a significant amount of money. I am also promoting proposals on this. So, finally, a little bit about digital television. Norway is facing a very exciting development, which will give users a whole new day of life with many new opportunities. The Progress Party notes that the Council of State is in favour of Norkring AS signaling that they want to develop a digital ground network for their own account and risk, and that the Council of State says that it would not be appropriate to close the analogue broadcasting networks until the entire population can receive digital television. This is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e259	The representative Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e264	There was a lot of work to do here. I'll stick to two things. One is this proposal for a differentiated licence in addition to the country, based on the possibilities of receiving NRK 2. Now it is that the license has never been increased because of NRK2 and no television viewers have had to pay for a service they do not get, as claimed in Document No. The 8th proposal. It is difficult to see the proposal as something other than an intervention in editorial freedom, because it will have consequences for the economic framework of the channel. Is it the Progress Party, or does one think it's quite right that an intervention in that way? In addition, the plural points to something that I think is quite right, that it is difficult to practice such a scheme. It might have been nice to hear if the Progress Party had any thoughts about how to do this in practice. So for the press: the party of progress has quite consistently argued that there should be free competition, that no one should be supported – the strongest should win. When I sit and listen, I wonder if they mean it so absolutely, if they believe it as absolutely as they say. In a small country, it is quite impossible to imagine that we can keep a shortage beyond, at least, Oslogryta – barely there – if we did not have press support. I've bid in two cities where no. The two papers were put down, and it was quite sad. At least it didn't mean that there would be more fun and more tension in some way, and it didn't mean that there would be any more problems, but rather that there would be more simplicity and more uniformity. It would be exciting to hear if the Advance Party were concerned about this, or if they thought it was completely uninteresting? Is it okay enough, just a dime on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e273	In all the years I have been interested in politics, I have also followed the NRK license, and I have registered that it has been increased every year. Last year it was increased by 50 kroner, and that was to strengthen the districts. It must then be right that those who attend each year and pay an increase in the licence in order for the districts to be strengthened also get a share in what the NRC offers. And part of what NRK offers is NRK 2. How, then, is the control to be carried out? Today, it is inspectors who are travelling around to check whether the licence has been paid. In the same way, I think it should be possible to get a control system on this. I don't see this as a big problem. So back to a long debate that's now going on in the media, about press support. It is true that we have a rich and varied newspaper offer today. We're going to have to have that, too. But when the market says that there is no need for a newspaper, I do not think it is right to give press support to this newspaper. And when you look at some newspapers that get press support, among other things. The financial paper, and also which newspapers leave farms with large parts of the press support, can be called into question. The batch is in favour of a transition over two years in the case of the closure of the production aid, which is different from the press support. We believe that the newspaper world will survive this. I would also like to believe that we get a more exciting and varied newspaper offer than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e282	The Christian People's Party agrees with the Advance Party that it is important to strengthen the framework conditions of local radios. I am pleased that the representative Bredvold so clearly underlined the importance of these to our culture. What I would like to mention in the reply, however, is the proposal that the Progress Party has made in the Chamber today to release the TV 2 concession in the nearest auction. I've been trying to figure out what situation we can get if that happens. I also noticed that the representative Bredvold spoke of it as ‘the highest bidder’, i.e. the one who pays the highest price, which is to be awarded the award. I then imagine Minister of Culture Ellen Horn – or the one that it might be – as a kind of auctioneer, who says and asks, something higher? I associate auction with fur and antiques and not TV concessions. Now I'm going to be fair to the Progress Party, because they also mention the terms and conditions of the authorities in the proposal. My question is: what will the Party of Advancement focus on regarding the terms and conditions of the authorities? And how are these to be expressed, if any, in advance of a so-called auction? Should there be a prequalification of some candidates who report their interest, and then you have to leave the highest bid for capital to be the gratifying, the final determining factor for who is allowed to influence us in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e291	I don't think either the last replicator now or the rest of the Storting should be afraid of how this is going to happen. The government and the Storting have already said that this should be published. Under the EEA Directive, it is to be exposed to the open market. We have also said that the state should have certain counter-performances. And certain counter-performances mean that we're going to have the general programming principle at the bottom, and that it's going to be financial counter-performances. I can't see anything wrong in the fact that the economic counter-performance is going to be as great as possible. Then the state and Norway will get more money, money that we could possibly spend on culture or other things. It must then be a great advantage that we get as much money as possible, when there are the same qualifications and bases that apply to those who are going to use this. Who should be the auctioneer, I don't see as a big problem. The main point is that this is done fairly, that it is done correctly and on the basis on which the auction is to be conducted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e298	The representative of Bredvold was concerned with the development and fate of local radio. At the same time, the representative, Mr Bredvold and the Progress Party, are proposing an auctioning principle for the award of the concession in the case of commercial general television, i.e. TV 2. If one is going to follow this principle, I expect the Progress Party will now also announce all local radio concessions, auctioning them away to the highest bidder. Can Bredvold confirm that this is the principle that the Progress Party will now embark on? And what effect does he think it will have on local radios that represent organizations, different life views, etc., i.e. smaller local radios? In England, this auctioning principle has been used, especially in the case of commercial television. This has led to some major, well-known television channels such as Time Television and others losing their concession, and others taking over. This is to the extent that a fair price cut has also been assessed by the Right. However, in Norway there is a relatively small market with four million inhabitants. And the TV 2's mission when it was created – after pressure from the Right, and I'm also counting from the Advance Party – was to ensure an alternative to the NRK. How does the representative Bredvold view that it will first be a bidding war to take over the public broadcasting concession commercially, and how will it affect the ability to compete effectively against the NRK as the state-funded licence-funded channel? The more one weakens the economy of commercial broadcasters, the stronger the NRK will stand. Therefore, the Right will oppose this proposal, because we want an effective, strong and good competitor of the NRK, which has a financial base that is not eroded by the fact that all the money is used up in an auctioning principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e305	First to the local radio to which the Progress Party is very positive, which I hope the representative Helleland and the rest of the Stortinget are also. We're looking at the importance of local radios, as I told you in my post. I'm even on a local radio, and I'm one of many, many who do a little hard work. Together, we're able to get that radio up, with the positive effects this has, both for those who live alone in the district, and for those who may be more active in the community. The progress party, unlike anyone else, wants us to have even more concessions on local radios. We want local radios to get even more opportunities, to get more local radios, and to get more transmission time, so that everyone gets there. I have had many enquiries about this during the time I have been sitting here on the Stortinget, both from “Christian” radios and from other radios that feel that they have too little time on the transmission network. The Progress Party will be in favour of extending this. So back to TV 2 and concession. I don't think we're going to have a bidding war. I see in this area, as in all other areas, in bids and auctions, as something positive. I ask myself a little questioning that the representative of Greece and the right does not see the positive in that we get as much money as we can, among other things. can apply to more culture or to other things in society that we need. We have a big gap in many sectors where the main problem is money, and then I don't understand why it's not important that we get as much money as we can when we have the basics at the bottom, that it should be like this, and that those who live should have them and those qualifications and those and those goals. So to this with competition between NRK1 and TV 2. The Progress Party and I see no problem in the fact that NRK and TV 2 become competitors – I see so far as they are competitors today – and that they compete so that we get a greater diversity, that we get better quality of the products that are sent, which is generally positive for those who use this medium. The progress party will wind up the license – I see that speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e318	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e321	The Minister for Culture, in his presentation, was committed to stressing the long-term media policy objectives in the face of increased globalisation and accelerating technological developments. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to commend the Council of State for paying particular attention to the content challenges we face when we enter the digital age. Although one might wish for a clearer clarification on some points, I am pleased with the signals given, for example. with regard to demonstrating the willingness, if necessary through direct regulation, to ensure the access of public broadcasters to Norwegian viewers. There is every reason to share her concerns that telecommunications policy and competition considerations may overshadow cultural policy. Good distribution channels and open competition are important, but here we will strongly underline the importance of creating broad alliances in order to resist and ensure that the good will not be the best enemy. The pressure on Norwegian language and culture will, after all, be further reinforced in the future. We would encourage the Council of State to adopt an offensive position in the follow-up to the Convergence Committee's investigation, where the possibilities to ensure regulation of both the telecommunications, data and media sectors have been highlighted. We also look forward to getting the case that was notified about this, to Stortinget. We will also stress that the increasing number of TV channels and the prevalence of the Internet open up enormous opportunities for information and communication, and they bring us into contact with valuable cultural impulses from outside of us. At the same time, many of these media also distribute programs with content that we can do without. It is therefore very positive that the Ministry has renegotiated a derogation from the EU TV Directive so that Norway can continue the ban on alcohol advertising in consignments addressed to Norway. On the other hand, we are very concerned about the evolution of the transmission of programmes that convey degrading reports of violence and pornography, the last of which is harmless as eroticism. This has become increasingly available also for younger age groups. And when the remote control has instead become control remover, as a journalist expressed it, many parents feel it very difficult, not to say impossible, to shield their hopes from what is going to be debased. On the Internet there are filtering possibilities to shut down unwanted influences to some extent, but at the end of the day the most important thing is to act on media awareness. In the field of television, we have this EU directive, which is also implemented in the Norwegian legislation. There is a common European standard – a legal watershed – that sets limits on what can be sent, at least by violence, before midnight. 21st Last@item: inlistbox It is important to ensure that this standard is complied with in practice by broadcasters, including Norwegians. The TV interests of Norwegian children have also been the subject of research. Recently, First Amanuensis Elise Seip Tønssen published the results of a survey in which she had followed 120 children over a four - year period. The children who four years ago preferred the ‘Sesam Station’ now say as teenagers that they see the ‘Hotel Caesar’ because the series is cool and exciting, and that something is happening all the time. But is that how culture, characterized by money, power, jealousy and adultery, we want to express the minds of our descendants? Media awareness in this context should be something producers and broadcasters could also need to learn. At the same time, the Christian People's Party would stress the importance of avoiding monopolistic situations in the media. Companies that manage large resources, both economic and cultural, need to face challenges. Therefore, it is positive that the minister has followed our advice to notify the announcement of the TV 2 concession. The same should also apply to P4's radio concession, and I would like to ask the Council of State whether this would be relevant in the same way. We also agree that the time has come to demand financial compensation from concession companies, and that these resources can be used to strengthen, for example, Norwegian productions. Yesterday, the so-called Daily Press Committee, which was supposed to investigate the newspaper's framework conditions, presented its position. The follow-up to the work of the sample to ensure good and stable framework conditions for newspapers is one of the most important media policy challenges of the time to come. The Christian People's Party sees it as an important cultural policy objective to maintain a rich newspaper flora in Norway. In order to ensure this diversity and freedom of expression, both play the No. The two newspapers, the so-called opinion papers and the local newspapers have a very important role to play. Several of the traditional media are also very vulnerable to the new media development, not least to this local media. These too are important cultural carriers, and contribute to a wide range of views and opinions being addressed in the local social debate. I have previously called for a review of the framework conditions for local radio and local television in the light of the new media policy situation. This is probably a wish that is also shared by those who run in the local media, and I hope this gets a connection. With regard to the views of the Christian People's Party on Document No. 8:42 on the right to a reduction in the TV licence, I will refer you to a later post by the representative of Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e342	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e346	The entry from the representative Lånke showed quite clearly how the differences in Norwegian media policy go, from being able to have a very offensive attitude to meeting the developments that are coming, to being able to concentrate, as Mr Lånke did, on the limitations and concerns of future developments. It's something that's been embossing media policy for many, many decades, so it's not that unusual. I want to return the line I got, which goes on film as an art expression. I want to ask the question about the Christian People's Party is totally rejecting treating films as one of the most general and popular artistic expressions and works that exist. Why do you want to be very offensive in terms of censorship of artistic expressions, and how do you even want to distinguish between what is in the film's art and what is commercial and speculative?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e353	I am pleased to note that the representative of Alstad and the Labour Party – I interpreted it this way at least – shares the main features of the Christian People's Party's position on media policy, including in terms of the opportunities to manage this policy in the face of the many technological challenges we are now facing, not least globalisation. With regard to the specific issue of film, I must say that I think the representative Alstad strongly blackpaints the Christian People's Party's approach to film as an artistic expression. Of course, I share that view that film, at least a lot of the film being produced, is a good art expression and expression of a building culture, and it should just be lacking that we didn't want to be in and support it. I don't think the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have been so much in disagreement about the instruments as such, and we were also united in the last budgetary procedure when it came to securing more money for Norwegian film production. I assume that the representative Alstad remembers it. But what I assume the representative is meant to do is go to the discussion we had about the so-called film clubs – the possibilities to open the film clubs for all kinds of movies regardless of their content by calling it quality, while at the entrance door you could say that you sell membership cards like tickets, at the same price, and then give access. This is about a legal understanding, which we have discussed earlier, and there we have disagreed. But we haven't wanted to introduce any censorship, we have the State Film Authority, and we want to keep it. Apart from that, I think we agree on most of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e362	I want to get some views from the representative Lånke about the famous gossip about certain types of movies. These are videos that you can get in a little depending on which network you are connected to and which country you might connect to. This is a kind of movie that someone's against and someone's for, of course. Is the representative Lånker completely opposed to the fact that those who want this kind of entertainment – and I think of adult people – are going to have this entertainment, and let's also call it schooling on this topic? I think that this could be done by not just pressing a button and getting it in, but by a certain code you get into this channel, so that minors don't get this in. It has to be a matter of course. What is the view of the representative Borrowed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e369	The representative, Bredvold, picks up the so-called cord. I actually know what it is, so I have an opportunity to express myself about it. I've seen it, but I'm actually in doubt that that cord is as very effective as it's made. A few weeks ago, I experienced that the cord had been removed for some time in Norway, but it is now a page separately. I believe the Christian People's Party agrees that it is good that we have this opportunity to regulate the film market or the expressions that seem offensive and break down human dignity, which I believe much of this gross pornography and violence does. I don't think there are any good tools to guard against this kind of influence. I know that both Norway and other countries are looking for such control options. I have mentioned the EU TV Directive. As far as violence is concerned, we have an opportunity at the watershed. It would allow adult people to look at this if it was only sent later in the evening. But as we know, it is very difficult to prevent minors from finding out about these programs. It's almost impossible, so the remote control has become a control remover. We also know that an organization that goes under the abbreviation ICRA works to get to an internationally accepted content measurement system closest, on film and videograms in order to be able to arrive at international standards for what is acceptable to send. But at the end, I think the most important thing is whether we can build people's attitudes, people's internal conscience or authority, which can kind of tell the individual where the limit goes, in order to set it -- what's about media awareness. This applies to both viewers and manufacturers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e378	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e381	The Minister of Culture's media policy statement warns above all that we are on the threshold of reversing our traditional view of media policy. The merger of media, convergence, will in the next few years lead us as legislators to think new, and that as viewers and listeners we will have completely different options to choose. This can be summarized in the word digitisation. Digitalisation will create new cultural policy challenges and new challenges related to the harmonisation of legislation and regulation on what is currently in broadcasting law and what is in telecommunications legislation. This work is well underway in the EU, and Norway should be at the forefront of this work. For the time being, I feel that Norway has been a little behind, and it is important and good that the Minister of Culture now warns that there is a need for a review of laws and regulations with a view to harmonisation. A technology-neutral regulatory framework will create new opportunities for business development. Norway should, with its knowledge and competence, jump on the train before it rages. We must not end up like we did with mobile phones, which were developed first in Norway, since they become Finnish and Swedish industrial export flags. Our topography, high distances and high transport costs are a challenge, but also an opportunity. We'll never be able to get the world's best road network, even with the Right proposal for road appropriations. But we have the opportunity to develop the world's best broadband networks for all parts of the country. If we do this, we also have the opportunity to provide digital television to the entire population and the possibility of advanced interactive communication. We need to set high targets, and we need to be willing to use public funds to achieve the broadband target for all parts of the country. If we are to cope with this, we must organise ourselves both at large and in the hands of the government in a way that does not mean that traditional committee and departmental boundaries prevent rapid and effective progress. The most important media-political event, perhaps one of the most important events so far in this millennium, is in my opinion American Online's merger with Time-Warner. The eye-catching thing was not that they went together, but that AOL, an Internet portal, got the majority share in a trade where the other party, Time-Warner, apparently had a completely different and greater value – CNN, Warner Bros, Time Magazine, Snurre Sprett and Daffy Duck. Time-Warner is a giant, U.S. largest media player with newspapers and magazines in a circulation of 130 million, with 70,000 employees, with record companies, film companies and a number of TV stations. Nevertheless, America Online, with its 12,000 employees and an internet portal of approximately 20 million users, the majority share. This shows some of the dynamics that lie in the new economy, and it also shows that here we need to think anew about the implications of this for the Norwegian media debate. In my opinion, this merger is just an expression of the accelerating wave of mergers we want to see on the media side, a wave of mergers in which large multinational companies will eat up on the Norwegian market. The merger also shows that the distinction between the Internet, telecommunications companies, broadcasters and newspapers will be cleared. Our own companies Telenor and Schibsted are examples of the same – media viewers become Internet operators and telecommunications companies become media actors. I think this is an exciting development, a development that cannot be stopped. But our challenge as cultural politicians must be to ensure that Norwegian language, culture and identity continue to have good sound and visual frameworks. Broadcasting policy needs to focus more on how best to offer the Norwegian people’s programme in Norwegian to a Norwegian audience. For a few years to come, public broadcasters will be our main instrument, but we need to follow developments closely and be willing to continuously assess the means to achieve our cultural policy objectives. Recent media policy debate has focused on what will happen when the TV 2 concession period expires. Let me make it clear that the right was a driver to get an uphill competitor to the NRK, and we've definitely got that. TV 2 was able to establish itself as a serious and good competitor to the NRK in a short time. The NRC, for its part, has successfully addressed competition and has developed its programme provision in an offensive way over the last few years. The right is in favour of a TV 2 concession being announced. It is important to follow the international rules in this area. However, we do not put ourselves in the lead among those who will now charge TV 2 or any new concessionaire, sky-high concession fees. And we strongly reject the fact that such a concession fee should then be earmarked for special purposes. In particular, Norwegian film production has been in the searchlight. Those who think that Norwegian films are getting a little better because the money from TV 2, possibly others, goes into film production and weakens the economy of TV 2 or other TV companies, have to believe again. Norwegian films and other audiovisual productions need public support, but in our opinion it is wrong to do so depending on concession fees. The purpose of TV 2 was to give viewers the choice between two public broadcasters. In our opinion, TV 2 has given viewers a real choice. The concession terms can always be discussed, and the Public Broadcasting Council is doing its best to pry away at details that I think should be subordinate. It is important that they follow up the main requirements of the concessions, but to pay attention to details when talking about TV 2 concession or about P4, I think I am subordinate. The most important thing is that it has a good general programming profile, which meets the main objective: to show and send news, debate programmes and other Norwegian-language programmes. It should also be assessed whether it is technically possible to grant a third general broadcasting concession. This will in any case be a transitional phenomenon pending the transition to digital television. The size opened for commercial test operations on ground-based digital television. It is now clear that it is possible to start with three multiplexes, which will allow for approx. 12 channels. This may be an attractive offer for some, but I still believe, as mentioned earlier, that broadband-based solutions are what will create a real revolution in the media, IT and telecommunications offer. However, it is important to establish that the most likely solution will be a combination of different transmission technologies — hybrid networks with broadband, ground, satellite and other technical solutions. In this context, I believe that the Ministry should already start work on clarifying the minimum offer for all households to be entitled to receive when we switch to digital television. Is it supposed to be the public broadcasters? All new digital niche channels should be included, e.g. those that the NRK is now planning? What about other Norwegian channels that are not subject to public broadcasting obligations? And what about any sports channels that are collaborative product between NRK, TV 2 and possibly other actors? Here, it is important that the Ministry now starts work, so that we avoid a debate as well as the one we are now seeing about the NRK2 and whether it should be consistent with the licence. It is a paradox that one on the TV and the Internet sees a ripping trend, while one on the radio side, where concessions for digital radio have already been granted, sees little development on the product side. This shows that politicians can occasionally be in the forefront of development. We have done our job so far, now it is up to manufacturers to offer digital radio receivers that will make DAB something more than a technical “dupped” for a few very few. In its statement, the Minister for Culture announced a new call for local radio concessions. In the light of the slow development of digital radio, the Right will join in. On the right, the Council of State is pleased to announce a comprehensive conversion and more effective implementation of the support schemes for Norwegian films and audiovisual productions. I do not believe that the conversion of aid schemes will necessarily lead to greater and better film production, but there should be broad consensus on taking action to increase the interest of both the audience and private business in watching and investing in Norwegian film productions. Yesterday, the Daily Press Committee was presented. The right expressed disappointment at the composition of the sample and expected that the sample would not bring anything new into the debate on Norwegian press support. After seeing the main conclusions, it's just to establish that we got it right. Press support is increasingly seen as a obsolete system in a dynamic media landscape. But as long as partisan ties exist for the newspapers, the Labour Party and the Centre will ensure that the press support is maintained. But I'm excited if the Minister of Culture and the majority are able to bring forward 100 new millions in press support, as the committee demands. I hope not, because it will inevitably be at the expense of an already hard-pressed cultural budget. I hope and expect the new Minister of Culture to take the same position as former Minister of Culture Lahnstein. In the choice between cut in press support and cut in cultural funds, she chose cut in the press support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e407	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e410	The right-wing representative pointed out what I think we all agree on, that it is the broadband and not the ground-based that will primarily create revolution in relation to the digitisation of people's everyday lives. But there's something that has to be with and pushe, promote development, and I think that first of all there are services that will do. And if someone is really able to deliver services, it should be in the cultural field. But that wasn't my main point. The right placed great emphasis on cultural policy. Language, culture and traditions must have a good framework, it was said. Yes, one of the most important areas in this way is just the newspapers, at the latest well documented in yesterday’s setting. When, as a value-conservative party, the right will weaken Norwegian language, culture and tradition by putting down one of the important intermediaries of it, namely the newspapers, what is the value of the good objectives expressed by the Right? Then I register that the Right Media Policy Spokesman is one of the few who have not yet got what happened in the 1990s with the newspapers, the party political crimes that have happened. There might be reason to remember that if the press support had been removed before the 1990s, it was the right newspapers we had left with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e417	I register that the representative Alstad agrees with me on the development of digital offers. I fully agree that it is the service content, the interaction, the new possibilities of using Text TV, using interactive speech, communication, image, sound, etc., that will be the new one, and that will create the interest in this offer. Getting more TV channels is in itself okay, but that has a lot of potential in Norway today, both via cable networks and satellite. It's a paradox that the only country in Western Europe where more analogue satellites than digital satellites are being sold at the moment is Norway, but that's because TV3 has the rights of the Champions League, and those who buy the satellites are at least going to watch football! At least there's something to notice for those who are going to start service production via digital networks, that you also have to actually have a content that appeals to people. Then Alstad is back in the old lesson about the press support. If Alstad listened, and he did, I said that as long as the newspapers have a twist of party politics, the Workers' Party and the Centre will fight for the press support – with a slightly varying intensity and strength. Former Minister of Culture Lahnstein's statement was very good in this context, and I think they should be indicative. I am delighted to see the new cultural budget that the Minister of Culture has now probably actively fought for – not in Halvorsbøle, but in the Prime Minister's office. But I'm registering that the Daily Press Committee is demanding 20 million dollars. kr now in the revised national budget, and requires 20 million. extra kr in the budget of the harvest. And my question is, what is this going to cost? The cultural tasks are in line, and I expect that the pot of the Minister of Culture will not necessarily be expanded so strongly next year that this can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e431	Let me first say that I am at least pleased that the Right and the representative of Greece are following in a way and agreeing with the Advance Party on the comments of the General Broadcasting Council and the Daily Press Committee. What I wanted to take the floor for was Greece's reply to the representative, Mr Bredvold, earlier in the debate, where I was unable to capture signals as to whether the Right was in favour or negative of the Progress Party's proposal. To give an example, I point out that the United Kingdom has now used the auction principle in its telecommunications. Initially, they thought they might have received NOK 10-15-20 billion. The result of such an auction was that they received a bid of over NOK 300 billion. And so we in the Progress Party believe that we can also transfer this principle to concession on TV, that is to get the maximum income from selling such a concession. So my first question to the representative of Greece is whether he supports or opposes that proposal from the Progress Party, and on what basis he will, in the event, oppose what principles he then uses to oppose it. Second, he pointed out the general principle of broadcasting and the competition between NRK and TV 2. Now we all see in the daily press and also in the statements of the leaders of the two different channels, that there is greater and greater consensus. It was signaled on television here that none of the two competitors initially looked away from a cooperation that might end up with a bundling of the two channels. Does not Greece also see the need for greater competition in the award of the concession, and this time by auctioning it away to the maximum bidder?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e444	I thought I was quite clear in my line to Bredvold that the Right would oppose the proposal of the Progress Party. I think the representative Sandberg understood that, and then the question was why we're going against it. Well, because the Right has something that maybe the Advance Party doesn't have, that's a cultural policy reason why a good public broadcaster is needed. Although it is commercial, we believe that the most important thing we should do with a public broadcasting channel is Norwegian language, Norwegian culture and Norwegian identity. In order to achieve this, it is necessary that that channel has a financial strength, an economic impact, which makes it a real competitor of the NRC. And then I don't think it's that easy to compare with England in this context, because an English TV market is really a world market. English production goes into all the canals of the world. The BBC and ITV and various manufacturing companies in England have a completely different opportunity to reach out with their productions. Another example is the transfer of English football, which has become a billion-dollar business. I don't think there would be as much interest in buying rights from Norwegian football matches abroad. Our starting point is that we're a small language community, we're a small nation. We will support the announcement of the TV2 concession. We want to join and discuss a concession fee for the one who gets this concession, but it must happen in negotiations also on what the channel is actually going to offer. When the Advance Party says that the channel should have a general broadcasting profile, I'm happy about it, but it's not just saying that word, it's actually filling that word with content. And then you also have to have the opportunity – not to spend all your money in an auction, but through the production of the daily to create a good channel just to get an alternative to the NRK, so that not the NRK again becomes unique.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e462	I think that the post to Greece was interesting, and that his assessment of the relationship between NRK and TV 2 is based on a good reasoning. I will nevertheless return to the support of the press and to the diversity of the written word. And then, in reply to me, Greece will not spend more time on what happened in 1998 with cuts in the 35 million press support. kr for 1999, which was the result of a settlement between the Government and the Right and the Advance Party, and which I liked badly. But it's true, as Greece said in its speech, I cut off the press support to prevent a further vulnerable cultural budget from being cut off. The press support committee's attitude has now come, and this is a matter that we will, of course, spend a lot of time in the future. I think that when Greece talks about cultural policy and Norway is a small community of languages, it is also interesting if Greece and the Right actually want to reduce the support for the press, or if you have the sense of a diverse and varied press pattern that we have today – that’s what’s meant. Press support has nothing to do with party politics, it's a issue that belongs to other times. When we have a system to ensure diversity and secure no. Two newspapers, the nationwide newspapers and local newspapers, are based on the desire for diversity of the written word. I could imagine challenging Greece whether he sees the significance of this, and how the Right will secure it in the future. Now, if, as Helleland signaled, you just want to cut out the entire press support, this diversity will disappear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e471	No, diversity won't disappear if the press support goes away. It seems that all Norwegian newspapers, both large and small, are dependent on press support. I have my background from Hallingdal, where we have an excellent locality called Hallingdølen, it has never had a crown in press support. There are many examples of similar things. I know about a newspaper in Egersund that someone in this room is related to, which is one of the most profitable newspapers in Norway, and which is a little newspaper. So it's not about removing diversity by removing the press support. I think that the day the party newspapers disappeared – at least most of them, there are a few left – the reasons for the press support, which was to preserve party political diversity, were lost in many ways. Now the papers are grouped, there are three major newspapers that own the papers. The groups go as such with large profits, while the individual newspapers in the group can obtain large sums in press support. I believe that this is a wrong policy. And if there's Norwegian language, culture and identity we're concerned with caring for, I think there must be completely different ways and better ways to take care of it. The right has been for part of the press support, because we are in favour of the VAT exemption for the newspapers. I registered with horror that the former Minister of Culture, Lahnstein, proposed to impose VAT on the sales papers for a round of budgetary proceedings. That proposal never came up with voting, but I do not think that the proposal was a good contribution to ensuring a good development for the Norwegian press in the future. And it's going to be exciting now to see when the VAT reform comes, how the different parties that are now talking so hot for the press support will relate to possibly putting VAT on the newspapers. Then we might get a slightly different debate, a slightly different angle to the debate, especially with regard to the parties that might think of graduated VAT rates, which have been involved in other contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e480	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e483	The Minister of Culture’s presentation on media policy provided a clear review of developments, challenges and objectives on which there will be broad political agreement. The technological and media revolution demands us as elected people and as a society, this primarily because of the objective of ensuring democracy, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for all, preventing the development of major social and geographical inequalities, and also giving Norwegian languages and culture good growth conditions in the future. I don't want to draw a scary picture of the situation, on the contrary, new technology offers a lot of exciting and positive opportunities. However, it is also necessary to be aware of any adverse consequences, for this is, to the most extent, an area that cannot be left to market forces alone. The major conversion requirements and general commercialisation put public broadcasters under pressure. They must be given good framework conditions, combined with general requirements. Without that being seen as a translation into an editorial line, I would be thinking about a development there, for example. culture and foreign matter must give way to more ‘popular’ and market-adapted programmes in so-called ‘prime hour’. Such a development will be underestimating people. And rejecting or devalueing a distinctive feature, which must be said to be the very quality stamp of an institution, is at best a short-term strategy, but hardly any wise strategy. From both a democratic and a cultural point of view, the offer of children and young people is very important. For 1999, the GSC also notes that this offer is too small, even if it is improved. With the opportunities we're looking forward to, there's got to be room for a much stronger bet on children and young people. Here, a qualitative counterweight must be built in relation to the flood of offerings that increasingly flow over us as fat, as party-game composer Rolf Wallin expressed it at the opening of the Festival Games in Bergen on Wednesday. The ethical and professional standard is a continuous challenge for the media. Commercialisation makes borders dwindle, and sometimes we see examples of clear violations in the name of freedom of expression. The question of how best to ensure ethical and professional standards is a regular theme. A few years ago, it was assessed to establish a media agent. As many would remember, it was rejected by reference to the self-justice of the press. It undoubtedly ensures the fundamental task of the press in a democratic society, including with regard to rulers and authorities. I still believe that self-justice is the right strategy, but it imposes great demands on the press's own bodies and processes. In particular, rapid response will be important for providing trust. The Professional Committee of the Press must be given weight. The same applies to Norwegian Press Association, which plays a key role in monitoring and promoting ethical standards. Norwegian is a small language community, and Norway is a small market. Requirements for Norwegian-produced programmes and high quality will be relatively cost-effective. A one-sided emphasis on competition in such a situation is, in my view, quite primitive. The situation calls for cooperation combined with healthy and sensible competition. That NRK and TV 2 e.g. now working together on sports broadcasts, is a positive signal and promises well. It is important to take care of Norwegian narrative tradition. There should be a greater potential for Norwegian films than that expressed in the public figures today. Film production is expensive. It is therefore necessary to improve film support, as signalled by the previous government. I look forward to the Minister of Culture making proposals for reorganization in this important field of art and culture. The setting for the Day Press Committee came yesterday. It will, of course, be the subject of a thorough review and discussion. Let me now point to the importance of the broad consensus on the functioning of press support to ensure the diversity of the newspapers. In addition, I have noticed the signal given by the sample manager, Hallvard Bakke, in the setting, by providing, in a subsidiary way, a low rate of VAT in general for newspapers, thus providing economic coverage for increased press support to those who need it. I don't like it, but this may actually prove to be the most realistic way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e505	I believe the representative Lahnstein and I agree on a great deal when it comes to media policy. I only have a few small questions in addition. The impression was made that the previous government did not need to light up the TV2 concession. Now the current government has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to be safe and to be sure that it was, so one should skip a discussion about it afterwards. It might be interesting to hear what the Center Party and the representative Lahnstein think about it. So the representative told Lahnstein again the press subsidy positive. She didn't say so long ago that it hurt to cut down. Is there any plan in the middle and in the centre to fix this - perhaps not at least after the last recording from the Day Press Selection? So to the concession fee that we have talked about for TV 2 and that can also be valid for P4. The Minister for Culture said that a concession should be published, and that one would then demand that the programme work be in line with the principle of general broadcasting. The second point was that concessionaires should commit to the economic performance of Norwegian television production. And then it's interesting for us in the Workers' Party to know about the middle parties, the Center Party and Anne Enger Lahnstein are agreed that there should be a concession fee on TV 2 and P4 for example, and whether this should be a cultural issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e516	It's true, as was suggested here, that at the time I was Minister of Culture, I didn't think it necessary to announce the TV-2 concession. Now I have registered that you have found that it makes sense to light it out, and I also noticed that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt explained that you should not be able to come afterwards and say that this was not right. Then it's just to take note of it. It's the government that's responsible for it. In relation to the third question, about the concession fee, I have thought that this could be the basis for a concession fee. But I don't want to overestimate the significance and size of it, because I think it's important that TV 2 or the person who gets the concession has a financial armshake to offer a good deal. And I think that actually TV 2 has been pretty good at it. They've had a good economy. I believe that when this concession was announced in its time, we underestimated the possibility of advertising revenue. Now there might be a situation where the income base is reduced, because there are so many different media to deal with. When it comes to earmarking, I have some experience of how such budgetary procedures are conducted, and I am afraid that earmarking in one area will lead to cuts in other areas. Make earmark for me, in so far, if it means more money overall, but I'm not fooled so easily by it. Then to the press support. Now we're excited about the performances that come from the Workers' Party when it comes to the press support. We will, of course, await the discussion of both the committee's suspension and the proposal from the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e527	The centre party, a so-called district party, which is increasingly in doubt by the Progress Party, will not be able to differentiate the NRK licence so that they can obtain a lower licence in the districts and thus use these funds on an alternative offer to obtain the NRK2. If people are to live in the districts, culture is an important element, the Central Party has said before. As the NRK is increasingly turning its TV offer into NRK2, and the NRK2 has now become the new film channel, why will the Centre not contribute to these more than 600 000 people, often in the districts, getting this kind of culture? That is what the Progress Party will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e532	Regarding the issue of the NRK licence, I admit that there is a problem related to the fact that there is different access to the offer from the NRK, for which the license is a payment. That is why we have gone into this proposal carefully and thought carefully about how to meet the justice requirement that lies here. But I'm absolutely convinced that if you start to differentiate the license, which is actually a fee on the devices, it will undermine the further development of a good offer within the NRK. So the reason for this and the answer to the question is that we believe that the NRK is now adding up and is aware that you are going to develop NRK2 and NRK1 together, and also increasingly give an offer to the whole country. It's done with the setup that's right here. The premise was also when NRK2 was established, for which licence funding had never been used, that a cover of 80 pst should be provided. It'll eventually be reduced. I also understood from the statements made by the Minister of Culture that the development of digital services will start in a way that compensates for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e539	‘I’m not fooled so easily,’ said the former Minister of Culture Lahnstein in answer to the question of earmarking funds for a possible concession to TV 2 or others. That means that former Councillor Lahnstein has left the Ole Brumm principle if yes, thank you, both in terms of budgeting and cultural policy. If the representative, Mr Lahnstein, was again faced with the dilemma of giving priority to either urgent cultural tasks or a strong increase in press support, the question is: what will the representative, Mr Lahnstein, do? We know what she did in a pressured situation as Minister of Culture, and that choice she has been on the side. But the question is whether the Center Party is now supporting the demand for $100 million in press support. Or is it the same in this area as it would possibly be with a TV 2 concession fee, that if 100 million new dollars are added to press support in the cultural budget, would it mean deducting about the same amount for other and more important cultural purposes? How will the representative Lahnstein deal with this dilemma? Will the representative Lahnstein sit back and wait for the Workers' Party to bring in the performances here, or is it such that the representative Lahnstein can actually already say something about the priorities she wants to do in the relationship between culture and press support in a difficult budgetary situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e544	It is wrong if someone has perceived it as having lived according to the Ole Brumm principle, yes, thanks, both parts, although sometimes it may be reasonable to say yes, both parts by being willing to absorb something more from the ever-increasing growth in private consumption. We did that in our time, and that's why we saw from the central government that the bulk of the population grew twice, first with the Right and the Advance Party and then with the Workers' Party, cut into the central government's cultural budget, both for 1999 and 2000. So there's a question of what I want to choose. I think it's my privilege as a big-time representative to wait for a playoff from the Government, because of course there's going to be a balance in the budgets, there's going to be a relationship between expenditure and revenue. I'm not so naive that I think it's just pinching my fingers and then getting 100 million. kr extra for press support on a rather pressed cultural budget. So the answer to Greece from me is: I will now await the Government's position on this, and I am very excited about and sincerely hope that the Minister of Culture will have a strong impact on an increase in the framework of the cultural budget, including the press support in general. I am going to contribute what I can to the fact that understanding of increased investment in culture, including a multiplicity of pressure, will have an increasing upsurge in the political environment as a whole. So I've experienced twice that the central government's cultural budget was cut in Stortinget. It's not good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e552	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e555	The Council of State shall be commended for a presentation in which she has addressed important issues and important challenges in the media field, a field that is difficult but in which we as cultural politicians have to go heavily into, for this is about social building in its ultimate consequence. Media is an important power factor, and it's an important task for us to follow how the media uses its power position. But it is also a task for the media to go into critical, probing journalism in relation to how power is used. In the economic field, for example, comments are received from a limited group, and often the media acts as a microphone stand for those who represent the interests of maritime operators in the financial market, which may yet have an interest in talking up interest rates in a situation where the demand for more money for the public sector is on the agenda. A critical journalism involves putting a critical spotlight on adopted truths about economic policy and the interests of the opinion group. ‘The globalisation and commercialisation of parts of the media will probably continue’, says the Council of State. Yeah, that's probably true. But evolution is not a law of nature, evolution is man-made. Politicians have given away instruments to the market. Technological developments require other instruments of political governance than those we had yesterday, I admit that. But we have to dry out putting political governance on the agenda and see what we can do about it. Technological developments represent both threats and opportunities for freedom of expression and cultural diversity. Strong commercial forces are ready to conquer power over both the production, distribution and distribution systems. The merger between American Online and Time Warner is an example of what we can expect. Cultural diversity and freedom of expression are getting tougher if the big media giants are to get raw alone. But technology represents opportunities both for diversity and for information channels, and channels other than those used by the Norwegian press. It gives grassroots movement and individuals the opportunity to obtain alternative information and organise themselves. It is a victory for democracy. Large parts of Norwegian media are companies that have to earn money, with owners who breathe the editorial work in their necks with demands for greater profits, more readers, more viewers at almost any price. This is behind the overcrowded and the growing demand to be present at dramatic events and to graph the lives of individuals. On a part of this scale, we find reality TV, which is on the move elsewhere -- being present where it happens, and preferably being part of the events. The origin of the "Centre" that we got up above was in many ways part of this idea. Fortunately, actors in the media are responding. Norwegian Journalists have issued a report with hard criticism of what happened in the wake of the killing of a twelve-year-old in Hedrum, when the village was flooded by journalists and helicopters hanging over the roofs to get the hottest scoop photographs of grieving relatives. This development means that the pressed sea must discuss the ‘Be careful’ poster. But I believe that developments show the need for us to re-open the debate on the media ombudsman. SV has, as you know, proposed that we should have someone to provide media assistance, and I hope that we can get an impact on this once in a while. While the media are businesses, they are also the body for the free word and dissemination of cultural diversity, one of the pillars of the democratic system. The daily press committee has come up with its proposals. One of them is an increase in the pressure to save the newspaper diversity. SV believes that the sign that newspapers are facing the safe death if Stortinget does not do anything immediately shows that we need to get up the press support at 1997 level next year. We also need to review something. I am pleased that the Council of State is so clearly signaling that those who are going to receive a concession for advertising-funded public television must also have some obligations. Only one year ago, we had a proposal that was just about to be charged on the concession. However, we believe that concession fees should be channelled both for television production and for films, and not least for decent and good offers for children and young people, which others have also been faced with. - I see the time is up. I wanted to say something about where this television channel should be located, but I'm going to come back to that, if necessary, in the line change. I refer to the proposal put out on the table by the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e578	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e583	I noticed that SV once again found it timely to launch the proposal on the media representative. After the “Centre” episode and after the “Big Brother” and what is happening in the cold water of the launch of that type of Trash TV, I have warned that the kind of proposal could be more updated from those who have previously thought it would. I must admit that this is not enough for the undersigned to go in for it. I think the reactions to these two episodes from the media themselves have shown that the press's own ethical debate is working, and that you are involved in setting limits. So there's always someone who won't stay within these limits. But I don't think the scope is so big for now. Despite the strong liberalisation – political liberalisation – that has taken place, in the 1990s we have not seen the extreme outbursts here at home in Norway, precisely because we have added to the degrees of the ethical work of the press and the independent responsibility for ethical work. After all, we have gradually implemented the PFU scheme for the entire media sector. My question is whether SV seems that the type – very few – of individual pisods makes it possible to put the whole system in jeopardy and to state it through a media agent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e590	If Jon Olav Alstad heard quite well after – and I hope he did – I did not suggest a media agent here and now. But what I said was that evolution means that we might have to go back to the debate on media representatives, and I hope that the Workers' Party and Jon Olav Alstad can join in. I agree that the press's own justice is important and that it should not be undermined. I agree that the reactions that have come from parts of the press on overtramp have been very good – I refer to the report that, among other things, I am referring to. Norwegian Journalists have written about what happened in Hedrum – but if you look forward, and see that here there are quite greedy commercial forces that will have the opportunity as a result of technological developments to present reality TV and everything that goes with it, yes, then we must be willing to discuss new instruments. And then I don't mean that an agent means a government thing. An ombudsman shall be a stand-alone, independent body, which, on behalf of society, shall examine and ensure that developments are conducted in the right direction, as other ombudsmen are also stand-alone, and which I hope will be able to continue to be so. But again, we have to be willing to raise the debate on media representatives in relation to what we see is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e599	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e602	The Minister of Culture stated in his statement that the main objective of the Government's media policy was to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of information. This is a good starting point for a media debate. And the Left supports this main goal. However, it is important to stress that such an objective must be pursued by an offensive policy that just guarantees freedom of expression and freedom of information. The report lacks signals from the Council of State and there is reason to note in a situation where Norway is referred to as a B-nation in terms of freedom of expression. My question is: what does the Government want to do to improve the condition of freedom of expression in Norway? The Committee of the Regions has put forward its position, which is out of the question. It is therefore understandable that the Government and the Council of State will not push ahead with the various proposals that came from the Commission. But would it still be possible to give some signals in important areas? The left believes that changes to the law are needed to strengthen freedom of expression, and we support a proposal to amend the Constitution § 100 according to the lines proposed by the Commission. It will be an important contribution to what the Minister of Culture said was the main objective of media policy. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg has shown that Norwegian law and case law do not comply with the obligations we have assumed internationally with regard to freedom of expression. The left considers that it is necessary to amend the injury legislation. It is embarrassing for Norway that we are repeatedly tried by the Human Rights Court in matters relating to freedom of expression. In this area, we need a stronger political commitment to our country and to our greatness. A good media policy is also dependent on a strong principle of disclosure. The informed debate is entirely dependent on transparency. The left has put a great deal of effort into strengthening the principle of publicity in Norwegian administration. Among other things, we have made a proposal that the principle of disclosure should be applied to the Storting, and we will have a matter to deal with shortly. But also in this area, I lack a greater commitment. When a proposal from the Left on the fundamental principle of disclosure was discussed recently, we only received support from the Progress Party. If freedom of expression and freedom of information are the most important aspects of media policy, it must be followed up with more commitment than the Workers' Party has had in this area. The Minister of Culture was quite right when she pointed out that an increasingly large part of our media policy is being formed because we are being affected by things happening outside the country's borders. The Left agrees with the assessments made by the Council of State in this regard. The Minister for Culture addressed media policy challenges in our meeting with the EU system. I share her assessments as well when it comes to it. But it was an important issue that was not affected. The principle of public access is relatively strong in Norway. It can be eroded in the EU system and with EU directives. Directives are now being worked on in the EU which will undermine the policies established in Norway in this area. I know that the Ministry of Culture and the previous government are actively working towards this EU directive, and I ask that the Minister of Culture be aware of this issue and actively follow up. If freedom of expression and freedom of information are to be effective, media channels must be available where this freedom can be exercised. In this context, it is important to address the current treatment in connection with the setting up of the Daily Press Committee. The committee outlines many important issues, including: Is it new that the press says so clearly and in agreement that the VAT exemption is part of the press support? This means that one now recognizes that far more newspapers receive press support than they have traditionally put in this category. The representative of Trond Helleland is right that he cannot discuss press support without including VAT, but he is wrong when he says that the traditional press support no longer has a function. Not least in relation to the smallest newspapers, this is absolutely essential for them to be able to operate in their community along the lines that we have said here are important in our democratic construction. I have focused most on issues that others have not been very concerned about. Let me briefly say a few words about the TV 2 concession. There, the Left Government's proposal is supported, and I would like to point out that Terje Johansen addressed this issue in a question in the Stortingen a few years ago with exactly the same content as the Government is now promoting. At that point, there was minimal exposure in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e621	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e624	I actually thought I'd shut up in this game, but I can't do it. The left has generally had similar views with the Workers' Party regarding media policy over time, but when the Left then until those degrees begin to focus on freedom of expression and emphasises the role of the Workers' Party in that context and points out that the Workers' Party must be more offensive than so far, I find reason to make some comments. It is quite possible that the Labour Party can be more offensive in terms of freedom of expression, and we will see what kind of initiative comes from the two reports we are dealing with. But what about the Left, who has done the worst attack on freedom of expression in recent years through the cuts in the press support that have been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e629	The representative Alstad's line made me more concerned than the Minister of Culture's presentation. If the understanding of freedom of expression is such that one believes that a cut in the 30 million press support. kr is the biggest attack on freedom of expression that we have had in Norway in recent years, one does not understand what is the honour of the Freedom of Speech Commission. When I put great emphasis on this in my post, it was precisely because the Council of State said in its statement that improving the system of freedom of expression and freedom of information was a primary objective of the government's media policy, yes, in fact, the most important thing. When I called for commitment, it's because there's been trouble getting an impact on proposals in the Storting that would improve policy in these areas. I would strongly warn against an interpretation of the condition of freedom of expression associated with the press support as isolated as Alstad puts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e634	I have a very strong sense of Kvassheim's argument about this with freedom of expression as something more than State aid. In the answer to Alstad, Kvassheim correctly points out that there are very serious threats to freedom of expression than a limited cut in press support. When the representative of Kvassheim is concerned about the Right's position on this matter, I want to return it by asking whether the Left Party, which is normally for free and independent institutions, does not look at anything suspicious by the fact that the newspapers rely on State aid, depending on public support for having the opportunity to get out. Does the representative Kvassheim, who himself has a local authority background, believe that a combination of some local authorities could lead to a more viable newspaper that was less dependent on public support? This with mergers is something that affects business elsewhere, but in the press you see it to a very small extent. The only mergers you see there are the big newspapers, Orkla, A-press and Schibsted, buying up in smaller newspapers and receiving press support at the same time as the groups have large profits. Does the representative, Kvassheim, not have any fundamental concerns about the fact that the large media player, through the purchase of supporting newspapers, can actually raise State aid for some of the newspapers, while the other newspapers are running high in profits? At all, this media concentration also means that some newspapers with large profits have to transfer parts of their profits to deficit newspapers or into the group fund. Does it not really mean that the press support is a obsolete system that should be phased out, also for the sake of having a free and independent press?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e642	It is clear that it is important to discuss the issues arising from state support for the media, which should be independent. The main counter-point in this respect is to ensure the independence of the individual editor. In the society we have today, we have a debate, a critical searchlight on the media that contributes to such independence, and which makes more and more newspapers now ensure that independence through statutes and other means. It would be far more problematic for our democracy if we cut off the press support with the result that many newspapers disappeared and many communities became newspaperless. Let me point out that there are 112 of the country's smallest newspapers that share 30 of the millions that we give in state aid. I believe that they should have received a greater share of this support. Had increased support for some of these smallest newspapers by NOK 100000, they would more offensively, more critically look at their municipalities in the maps, and they could serve communities, cultural life, etc. in a much better way. The press support still has a mision, but as I said, it would be much easier to distribute 10 million. kr more to these 112 newspapers than to make arrangements that gave some newspapers another 5 million. kr in press support. So here are the pages we want to discuss, but I want to appear to be a member of that system, because I think it's an important part of our media policy and our cultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e649	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e652	In my presentation on 16 May I pointed out, among other things. the speed with which technological developments are taking place. An illustration of this was given in ads in the Oslo newspapers this week. Here Viken Energia informs us that the company will start practical experiments with telephone and data connection via the mains power source. Although this technology has in principle been known for some time, it is known to me for the first time it is being tested out by the audience in Norway. If the tests are successful and this technology can be used on a large scale, it opens up hugely exciting views. In practice, all Norwegian households have supplied electricity, and we can already have a broadband network in Norway. But I stress that the technology is in the cast, and we have to wait for the tests before we can finally say something about how useful this system is. Yesterday it was 237 years since the first Norwegian newspaper came out, and yesterday I was handed over to the Daily Press Committee's investigation, and that's exciting reading. The committee proposes to increase the support for the press and to maintain the VAT exemption for newspapers. I cannot comment on this, of course. First, the investigation must be consulted and then the level of aid must be assessed in budgetary terms. But I will briefly comment on some of the committee's other proposals. Firstly, it is exciting to record that the sample has assessed different measures to increase newspaper reading among the youngest age groups. If we're still going to be the most newsreading nation in the world, it's absolutely vital that someone take the initiative in a comprehensive discussion of what can be done to increase newspaper reading among young people. It is important to note that low interest in newspaper reading in young people could result in a weakened interest in newspaper even as you get older. This effect is well known in other countries and gives cause for concern. It should certainly be in the self-interest of the newspaper to stimulate the literacy of young people. If it's a government task to contribute to this work, we'll have to discuss more in time. The suspension of the sample will also update the question of the use of discretionary criteria in this area. I think, among other things: on the outline of the sample for a new support model, the proposal for the introduction of start-up grants and exceptional production grants for particularly needy newspapers. In the further processing of the sample setting, we will carefully assess the consequences of introducing increased judgement into the scheme. This can make the scheme more effective and flexible in relation to real needs. At the same time, we must ensure that such flexibility does not lead to uncertainty about the criteria for granting aid. Such uncertainty could easily facilitate claims of political favorisation, which would be devastating to the generalisation of these mechanisms. The Daily Press Committee proposes to repeal the current provisions on profit reduction and the prohibition on the payment of the exchange. Current rules are proposed to be replaced by a more discretionary assessment of which newspapers actually need support. I believe that neither opinion nor the political environment will have a particular understanding of the importance of funding for purposes other than newspaper business. To this end, the need for private capital to be provided by the eligible newspapers must be weighed. At the same time, we should be careful to put in place mechanisms that require management to make judgemental assessments of the individual newspaper economy every year. These are therefore difficult questions to which we must come back on the basis of the consultation. I will now ensure that the committee's investigation is consulted as soon as possible and will focus on the points of view that come into consideration in the further consideration of these issues. I will not comment further on the level of the press support and VAT question before the 2001 budget. It is, however, as I see it, enormous dramatic challenges facing Norwegian cultural life, both in terms of media policy and in a number of other areas. It's all about preserving the identity of the nation and the Norwegian language. Therefore, my strong ambition is to gain greater and wider recognition of the need to extend the framework of the cultural budget, and cultural issues need to be given a much more central place on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e680	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e683	In its earlier statement, the Council of State stated that it would ensure that the focus on Norwegian-produced films and audiovisual productions would continue through support and incentive schemes. Nevertheless, the Council of State says that there is a need for a comprehensive reconversion and more effective implementation of these aid schemes and their management. Would this mean that the Council of State agrees with the skepticism that the Progress Party has had throughout all years to these arrangements, and what does the Council of State put in the expression ‘a major change’?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e688	The audiovisual sector is an important component of cultural policy. I want to have the necessary certainty that the proposals I want to promote are the right ones for the film sector. I myself agree that it is important that it does not take too long for the results of the work to be made known. I think that the film industry would suffer more if we implemented a number of unwarranted measures than if we wait six months longer. I believe that this is all reason to go through the Norwegian film support schemes, so that we are better able to create good Norwegian content production. This is one of the main challenges ahead in media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e693	I would like to say that I share Horn's hopes of the exciting views when we get broadband networks through the plug. But there were a little other things I thought I'd bring up with the council. First of all, I would like to repeat a question that I believe the Council of State may not have registered in my previous post, namely if you could also think of lighting out the P4 concession in the same way as the TV2 concession. My second question concerns something that has not been affected in any of the statements to the Council of State. I suppose the Council of State might still be familiar with the relationship. Last year, the then State Council, Lahnstein, made a statement in which she announced that a concession for so-called AM broadcasting would be published, because it had been a question of, at least from at least one private actor, being allowed to operate private radio activities on the long- or medium-wave on available frequencies in Norway. And it was said that it had assessed the department and decided that it would open up, and it would be bright. Now, state councillor Lahnstein didn't come so far with the question that it was bright, and I allow myself to ask councillor Horn if she will now pursue this question, so that we can get a concession on the long or medium wave. So to the third, what goes on the concession fee, which has also been suggested in the previous statement. I do not expect the Council of State to be able to respond to what such concession fee is actually going to do. But we imagine that some media because of the large, heavy media revenues in the advertising sector do not have the same income opportunities, and I think not least of local media like local radio and local TV. Will it be natural to consider whether these media too can strengthen their framework by making more resources available in the form of such a concession fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e706	To the first question about the P4 concession, I think it would be logical to have a call of the same line with the announcement of the TV2 concession. With regard to the call in respect of local radio, I can say that the Ministry of Culture in a letter dated 16 June 1999 asked the State Media Administration to draw up a proposal for a concession invitation, a notice notice and a concession terms for private radio activities for a long-wave. We received the proposals we had requested on 22 March this year. In the light of the technical developments that have taken place, we have now found it necessary to obtain the opinions of the NRK, Norkring and Post and Telecommunications Authority on what will be the most appropriate use of this frequency resource in the longer term. We expect this to be clarified in the near future, so that we can reach a decision on this matter within the summer holidays. As far as the concession notice is concerned, I understood the question that Loan would know if others would also be able to benefit from any fee imposed on the concession, and of course we will come back to that. I just think it is extremely important to ensure that the resources that may be released could go directly to Norwegian content production, which benefits as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e715	I understand that the Council of State does not want to comment on the main conclusions of the Daily Press Committee and will not say anything about the level of press support, but I would like to repeat the challenge I had earlier to the representative Lahnstein, where the representative Lahnstein gave a clear answer to what position she had if the choice was between cutting off the press support or cutting off the other cultural purposes. It would have been interesting to hear how the Council looks at that issue, because it could be a topical issue. Although I wish the Council of State luck in the fight for an enlarged framework, it is not impossible for the Stortinget to end up in the situation where there will also be discussions this year about the size of the budget and any cuts in the cultural budget. Then I record that the government council has hopes for the electricity grid's ability to be a broadband operator, and that's exciting. I also think it would be great, because then we would have had broadband for everyone right away. But what I mentioned in my post, which I would like to get an answer to, if any, is whether the department can now plan to actually start defining what minimum offers all Norwegian households will get when we have introduced digital television, so that we do not have the debate we have today, about NRK2 and licence fees, and avoid debate on coverage, etc. It must be important to have a pre-defined programme offer that should be the minimum everyone will get in, because we know that there will be a hybrid network, there will be many different broadcasting platforms, and then it is important to discuss how to set this up at large, so that everyone has a minimum offer. Is this a work department thinking of going into business? Finally, I would like to ask whether the ministry has also begun the process of thinking about the principles for the transition from analogue to digital television. When are we going to turn off the transmitter, and how are we going to decide this when we're going to switch over to digital television?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e724	Let me start by saying that I understand that it can be frustrating to have to pay the full broadcasting license without being able to take in the NRK2. However, a two-track broadcasting fee collection system will be very costly and practically difficult and a small principle solution to a problem that may no longer be a problem in a few years. I can therefore not now recommend a reduction in the broadcasting fee for those who cannot accept the NRK2. When it comes to cutting the press support relative to other cuts, I have to say I share the opinion of one of my predecessors, Anne Enger Lahnstein, that cut is unfortunate in every context. Therefore, I would have to see the press support in the broad context, but also look at the issue of VAT and the press support might have to be balanced against each other. As I said, I work intensively to get a framework that can meet the key challenges we have. With regard to the time it will take for everyone to make broadband available, the Government feels a strong commitment to ensure that this is done as soon as possible. We have said that we will rely on competition to stimulate the market to contribute to a distribution so that the whole country can access the new media. Hopefully, we'll start approaching this goal in a few years. Where the commercial actors are unable to cover the whole country, we will go in with public support to help each household have access to the technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e734	As I said in my post, I think the Council of State took up a lot of important areas, but like previous statements, there was one area that was not mentioned. That's how the press represents a machine of power. I also said that it is important to see how the press uses this apparatus of power, and which groups the press lets go or not. A field that is quite conspicuous is that women are being very invisible in the media. A few years ago, a survey was made that showed that despite the fact that women had the train into very many social arenas, only a few women were used as sources in the media. Now the Institute of Journalism has just done a survey that confirms this picture, that is, that a low percentage of women are used as sources in the media, so they become invisible as social actors. My question is: does the Council agree that this is a problem? Does the Council of State see the importance of taking this into account in a subsequent media policy statement and see if there are any tools that can help to strengthen the image of women? So another question. I take note that the department is now publishing TV 2's concession. But when TV 2 was granted a concession, it was important that the broadcaster was located elsewhere than in Oslo, outside the Oslo pantry, to see the world and the country with glasses other than the Oslo glasses. Will the Ministry and the Council of State now ensure that there is also a requirement in the concession terms that the TV company be located elsewhere than in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e741	The issues of equality are still as important as they have been in my adult life. For the Government, it is a matter of priority to ensure that equality and women's affairs are lifted in all contexts. I share Ågot Valle's concern about the lack of focus on women in the media, as she mentions here, and will certainly see it as an important matter to focus on in the years to come. With regard to the award of the TV 2 concession, the Ministry of Culture assumes that it is also a condition at this time that the new concession is linked to the location of the head office in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e748	I have a great deal of understanding that the Minister of Culture cannot go into figures that come into the budget. I also have a lot of understanding that it's hard to philosophize a lot around the press support. I have to say that I see the vic I got from the Workers' Party in connection with the cut for 1999 was to take in. I will not draw it up again in connection with the budget coming to the autumn – I would have thought. With regard to cultural appropriations in general, I would like to express great support for the Minister of Culture's efforts to try to increase the overall framework. The cultural budget is a small budget, and it means so much in the media reality we have today, where we are flooded with impulses and have to build our own culture, our own language and our own identity. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Culture fully agrees with me. I also noticed that the Minister of Culture addressed this with broadband – and maybe it was in the power cable? Nothing is better than that, because we all have that. But today there have actually been statements from both the Minister of Culture on behalf of the Government and from Højres Trond Helleland on the need to provide public support for broadband expansion in those parts of the country where the market does not provide it. I would like to have confirmed from the Minister of Culture that it is correctly perceived, because it is a very important signal; it will also solve the problem related to NRK2, which is the other matter we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e757	I would like to thank you for your support for the ambition to increase the cultural budget. I think the country has everything to gain on an expanded commitment to culture. In this context, I can also say that we are in a preparatory phase in the planning of a new cultural message, and this will hopefully also be very clear in this work – the need to think about cultural policy. I want to confirm here and now on behalf of the Government that getting the broadband out to absolutely all women and men across the country is a clear goal for the Government and for the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e764	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e767	Developments in the media are largely influenced by technological developments, internationalisation and commercialisation. It puts us ahead of ever-new, big challenges. The boundaries between the previously shared telecommunications, media and information technology sectors will be gradually erased. Convergence will not eliminate traditional challenges in the regulation and management of the media sector. Media regulation needs to adapt to developments in order to preserve important media and social policy considerations. It will still be a challenge to protect public broadcasting and a differentiated press in the future, in the form of medium fusion, increased niche matching and commercialisation. The Christian People's Party believes it is important to ensure the most possible equal access to new forms of electronic communications and media. It is essential that developments in the media field do not, as far as possible, contribute to creating new social differences or differences between sex and generations. Ensuring freedom of expression is a premise for a living democracy, which the Council of State was also involved in its media policy outreach. The Christian People's Party agrees that preserving Norwegian language and culture is an important objective, and that content production is important from this point of view. We have noted that the Minister of Culture announces a wide-ranging conversion and streamlining of support schemes and the management of support and incentive schemes for Norwegian films and audiovisual productions. But it is important that we also in the future have a strong commitment to this, especially targeting children and young people. It is important to ensure a differentiated daily press, and we are excited about what actions the Council of State will promote as a result of the work of the Daily Press Committee. The press support is and has been important to sustain the rich newspaper shortage that we have in Norway. It is important to provide a good nationwide public broadcasting service and to facilitate local broadcasting. Since we have been working with this release at the same time, document no. 8:42, about the right to a reduction in the licence fee for those who cannot take a signal to see NRK2, I will come with some moments to this setting: It is not hard to understand that a person feels that not everyone who has television has access to NRK2. It has been a central objective of Norwegian media policy to shape developments so that the whole country can access more of the same services and channels, in line with the central lines. The Ministry of Culture, by letter to the Committee, states that the NRK aims to improve the analogue distribution of NRK2 in some places. A number of the Committee have proposed the introduction of digital television, which will greatly increase television coverage throughout the country, not only in central Europe. The NRK2 has come as an addition to NRK's previous radio and television offerings without any increase in broadcasting charges. Therefore, the television viewers do not have the means to pay for a service they do not receive, as claimed in Document No. The 8th proposal. It would be very difficult to identify who is getting in, and who is not getting in the TV channel. Even in areas with backends, there is a wide variation in the reception relationship. In order to identify any household that accepts the NRK2, it would have to have been done, if possible, by a kind of self-notification from the licensee, or by visiting each individual household. Such schemes would result in a substantial control need with high costs as a consequence. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Ministry of Culture's assessment that a system of differentiated licensing will break with the principle that the broadcasting fee is a general fee for broadcasters, and that the proposal will involve an administratively difficult and costly solution to a problem that will become less and less topical in the future, including in the future. in the interest of broadband technology, which, in response to Anne Enger Lahnstein’s reply, the Council of State also gave a clearer and positive signal of the need to develop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e793	There is not much to add to the debate so late. But I have to say that it was a pleasure for me to listen to the new Minister of Culture, Ellen Horn, last Tuesday, about the media policy in this country, of course because she is professional in her performance, but most because the distribution was both rich and interesting. That we have the same experience, with Dickie Dickens and Radio Lux, made the background step quite polite. I'm new as a media politician, but I've been involved in parts of the area before. I see it as decisive to take care of the lack of media image's various forms of expression. Even if individual radio and television channels are tired of fulfilling some of their conditions, and even if so. local radios can be quite similar at times, we have a lack of media image in Norway. I must – as the Minister for Culture said – take care of that. And we always have to make sure that the individual channels fill the conditions they're supposed to meet. These conditions have a purpose, and I am glad that the Minister is active in his attitude to charge offences, whether there is a lack of programmes in minority languages and in the lack of child programmes. Many viewers are frustrated because they can't see the Monday movie. We in the Labour Party also understand that. The NRK should be careful with such division. I am pleased that this is a transition, and that some of it can be temporarily resolved by reprisals and by further development of the network. The solution to the differentiated licence fee is not very constructive and quite difficult. I am pleased that everyone outside the Progress Party and the representative Stolt-Nielsen rejects this today. New technologies will increase access to information, knowledge and entertainment and will give more opportunities to express themselves. This strengthens freedom of expression and information, but in turn it presents us with challenges when it comes to preventing new class distinctions between people and groups. Here the school and the public library can be decisive venues that can take a special responsibility for those who do not have the latest equipment available at home. The Government – and the Labour Party – aim to secure freedom of expression and information. The goal is firm, but the means of action must change in an increasingly technological and globalised society. More nordics are a newspaper-reading people. It is important that we have access to newspapers with different profiles and to central, regional and local newspapers. The newspapers are no longer – at least not in particular – linked to the political party. It now covers most games with membership pages and Internet pages. Sometimes I think that the different media kind of jump into groups for the same things, and that they give them quite a similar look. Not rarely are the headlines in most newspapers or in the different TV channels the same. That's understandable when it comes to things like the tragic child killings in Kristiansand recently, but quite striking when, for example, is about diet or slimming. I could hope that the many actors found their own shape to a greater extent, and that they gathered a larger width and a greater variety. I have read a couple of Danish newspapers in the last year, and one of what I like about it is that there are more and more reflective articles and fewer headlines. Centrally, we have many newspapers, and many of them cover the whole country. Some are granted State aid. The press support has been debated over and over again, including today. The working party has had a rough course here – we want to protect the press support. Now I understand that the daily press selection will increase support. We'll get back to that. But I have to say that I have bid in two places – as I mentioned in a line – there no. The two newspapers have been laid down, in Larvik and in Arendal. It turned out to be a big loss for the district. Not only did two newspapers come to one, but the one newspaper that was left was even more selective about what they wanted to take in, and they didn't have anything to compete with about the customers. So free competition on the right was a loss for newspaper readers in the district. Finally, a few words about the TV 2 licence. I understand that it would have been nice for the channel to get the license passed on without discussion and competition, but I have a little less understanding that a person would like to do it in a way that one could ask questions later on. If they do, it will be easily attached to the channel and used by competitors. Therefore, we will follow the procedure. This is a formal decision that has nothing to do with reality and what we like to do about TV2. The assessment of reality shall be made by the Minister of Culture when the concession has been offered and shall evaluate the various applicants. But the result is not 100 pst. given. Neither will it be the money that decides who is being granted the concession, it's actually an overall assessment that does.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e812	It was emphasised that it was only the representative of Stolt-Nielsen and the Progress Party who wanted to provide for a differentiated television fee. Then I hope the other party groups are so liberal that they release their representatives on this issue, so that a real disagreement can be expressed by allowing the representatives to vote freely. This is a problematic question. There has never been a full agreement on whether to have differentiated or equal broadcasting charges after the introduction of the NRK2. What provokes this question now is the program conversion that we've seen in the NRK, where a bunch of programs, so that one half of NRK1 and one half of NRK2. It provokes it. It also provokes the fact that you still receive advertising on the NRK1 because you cannot see it on the NRK2. This helps to reinforce the feeling that something is produced for the licensees that you do not have access to. Although the broadcasting licence has not been increased for the purpose of producing programmes in NRK2, there is no doubt that the licence money is also used to finance the broadcasts that go to NRK2, and then one must be able to say that one pays for something that one does not get involved in. A little heartache: we have come so far in this debate that what is to be said politically about media policy is largely said. But I have noticed that no one today has addressed the problem of hearing impaired people and their access to the imagery. There has been a pressure on the NRC over several years by making recommendations to increase the proportion of textual programmes. And there's something promised all the time; now it's just before the simultaneous captioning capability comes – but it's not yet available. There is an increasing number of people in our country who have a hearing impairment, and there is an increasing proportion of programmes in the NRC with strong elements of dialect, among others, which may be difficult for those who do not have normal hearing. I would like to stress that there has been a strong desire on the part of the Storting to increase the proportion of texted applications and that subtitles occur simultaneously – at once – so that hearing-impaired and normally heard can enjoy the same programmes at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e824	I have allowed myself to go through the record from then on in 1993 when we had a media policy plan up in Stortinget, and I have to say that today's debate does not bring anything new into the picture, if one then ignores the announcement of the TV 2 concession – which I also do not see as the revolutionary proposal in this context. This brings me to the proposal of the Advance Party on auctioning. Based on what I have heard from both the Council of State and the individual representatives of the other parties, I do not understand and understand the arguments in this matter. It is not a matter of intervention when the Council of State says that the fees from any concession will bring funds to create Norwegian production. Yes, well, but if we put this into auction, at least the Council of State will get a lot more money to create Norwegian production for, if that's what it's for. Earning money is the point here, and therefore it disappoints me enormously that the Right has taken the attitude that they have here, and a guardian role – they should in a way know best what is the right business operation compared to making money. We have said in the proposal that it is the authorities that are going to lay down the guidelines for what is going to be in the concession, and then the price might go up and down depending on how much we contribute to the concession. And it has to be up to whoever offers, to decide a business concept that one believes goes around with the means that one might bid on the concession. The price of the concession will be adjusted according to the input of the authorities into the concession. And then also the Right, which in a way has now connected itself to the Workers' Party and what we in the Advance Party have previously stressed that it is, ARK – and now it is HARK – to take care of the NRK and the monopoly situation that lies there. The right is neither interested in reducing the licence nor interested in a business where a earner makes money, money that can be channelled back into culture or anything. The point is, if the Right wanted to do like the Advance Party here, they might have gotten the 50-100 million that they want to channel around to cultural life. But they don't want to. I also want to say something about the program content. We politicians don't have to determine the content of the program. But isn't that what we're doing? It is the Ministry, the Council of State, that does this by forming the content of the concession — that is, the general principle of broadcasting. It's floating. So here it's clear for the politicians to decide. And I've seen a lot of culture ministers who've gone out and demanded more of both one and the other in our NRK channels, so that's a question of where you stand, and what discretion you use. I also want to say something about the Center Party in this context, but I can afford another three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e835	I thought I would link some comments to the document no. The 8-proposal that's right here. It's clear that there's a real irritation out there in people, partly a curse, about paying for a product you don't get. The irritation is enhanced by the program profile provided by the NRK. It has not been improved by the fact that the former Minister of Culture — not the current one — and a spokesman for the Department and also the NRK use arguments that people feel are becoming completely wrong — for example. type: what you pay for is to have a television. Everyone knows that you pay for a product, and some of us burn for the licensed television that doesn't depend on advertising revenue, etc., which can create a different program profile than the commercial ones. Or you go out and say, like the future of Nordland here in its time, that 90 pst. may take NRK2. In my home country, Northland, it's actually 13 pst. which can take it in a normal way from the transmitter. That others can take it in through cable systems and satellites, is correct, but I, who lives in Mo in Rana, don't want to have 20 channels with sleeves in my house, I want NRK2, without paying for 20 channels that I don't want to watch at all. The type of argument has contributed to the increase of irritation. I want to give a very strong warning against the kind of reasons that come from the political groups and, in part, from the NRC. Then it's the NRK profile. The Monday film was an institution, and I think it's quite absurd that Svabø's debate programmes are running on such a narrow channel, and are reprised in the daytime on what is the people's channel. I also think it is provocative that if you are going to follow in NRK language programmes, you have to have NRK2. It's a lot of things that I'm reacting to. Now we can't edit, we can't control NRK's program profile, while I think it's okay to give some signals. But then comes this document No. The 8th proposal. I just have to say, of course, it's a petition to the depths of the people. It's popular. I could have liked to be part of something like that, of pure populism. But I know that this just isn't manageable. Something as costly and demanding as this proposal I have almost never seen before. And the fact that it comes from a party – the Advance Party – that wants to abolish bureaucracy and control mechanisms is even more amazing. So I have to say, of course, I hope that the new technology will solve this. I hope that NRK thinks carefully through its program profile: what to go on NRK2 and what to go on NRK1. And I hope that those who defend and believe we have to keep this system, in the future do not use reasons that further provoke those who are annoyed not to get a product for which they pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e844	First of all, this is not a proposal from the Progress Party, but a cross-political proposal from representatives who see it wrong to demand funds for a product that is not delivered. But I will continue where I left off in my first post, and do a summary of it. In fact, it is so simple – and it is also stated in the proposal – that ‘the concession currently held by TV 2 AS is granted by means of an auction between companies which fulfil the terms and conditions of the authorities’. So, if there's more to buy through an auction, if, for example: is someone who's worth 50 million. kr more than others, that means that the majority in this hall say no to the 50 million for all the great purposes that they mention in celebrations around. That's what's happening. It's that simple. We add the terms ourselves, and then we'll get the price that we want. So over to this with NRK2. That's a strange argument, I think, when one says it's not formulated in any way that the increase in the license fee has been made to finance the NRK2. Does this mean that the establishment of NRK2 has been free? Has it not cost anything to establish NRK2? Then it's strange that there are no more channels. Of course, the NRK2 steals funds from the license fees, and of course it also makes sense that those who do not receive the NRK2 have to get a reduction, quite simply from a consumer point of view. And it's strange that the Consumer Council isn't inside the picture and points that out. What surprises me is that for decades the Central Party has called itself a district party – and over and over again in Stortinget proves the opposite. One example is the proposal for a reduction in the TV licence because people in the districts do not receive the product that the centre party has been establishing. They have expanded the NRK2 – but they do not want to deliver that product to their suppliers in the districts. That's really weird. The second point regarding the Central Party's relationship to the media is: What about the local TV stations? Here, too, the Central Party, first in the series, has the right to break the back of all local TV stations, because they have agreed to allow the NRK to expand its market through commercial thinking in addition to the license fees. They take the market from the local TV stations, which are gradually shut down. The center party has been at the head of it. It's strange that people don't discover it. But is that what we're looking at on the polls now and then? We, at least a lot of us, hope that the limit of 4 pst. becomes a reality for this party until next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e861	I'm not going to help prolong the debate that much. I had basically just thought I'd take a vote explanation, but the last post made me want to point out one thing: instead of saying that you should reduce the license for those who don't get two channels, it might have been a more logical reasoning to conclude that you should impose an additional license for those who get an extra channel. I have not heard that anyone from the Advancement Party has raised this issue, but it would have been a logical line of thought behind the reasoning being presented. Of course, we from the Labour Party would have voted against that proposal too, but it had at least strengthened the rhetoric of the Progress Party in this area. So the representative said Sandberg that it's strange that there are no more channels if it doesn't cost anything. As far as I have registered, the NRK has actually started up a good deal of extra channels in addition to NRK2, not least in the digital area and on the radio side. But that's it. Then to the two proposals. Proposal No. 1 I have already notified that the Workers' Party is going to oppose. The same applies to proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox We want to see the whole thing and know what this is going to be related to, before we go in and commit money to next year's government budget. So far in the process, the Workers' Party has not yet arrived, and we will probably not be there until the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e870	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e876	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e883	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2. from the Socialist Left Party, in its form is a transmission proposal. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government increase press support to 1997 levels in the 2001 State budget.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that the concession currently held by TV2 AS is granted by means of an auction between companies meeting the terms and conditions of the authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e913	The President then proposes that the statement by the Minister of Culture at the Stortingen meeting on 16 May 2000 on media policy be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e920	During the debate, Mr Bredvold presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and Mr Stolt-Nielsen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the NRK’s licence fee is differentiated according to the possibility for the recipient to receive NRK1 and NRKTO over the ordinary transmission network.’ An alternative is to vote between the position and the proposal of the Progress Party and the representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26.ana.ud582e946	There is no record.
