ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e37	The representatives of Eirin Fallet, Kenneth Svendsen, Marit Nybakk, Bjørn Tore Godal, Svein Ludvigsen and Elsa Scarbøvik, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternates, for the Hordaland County of Magnar Lussand, and for the North Trondelag County of Karin Kjølmoen, have taken the seat. The requested alternate of the Hedmark County, Erling Brandsnes, is requested to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative Grethe G. Fossum from 22 February to 24 February, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox This application is proposed for immediate and acceptable consideration. 2nd@item: inlistbox Other alternates, Nils Amund Røhne, are proposed to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e84	Nils Amund Røhne is present and will take the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Slovenia, from the Delegation of the Grand Duchy to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee, on 23 and 24 February, to take part in meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Slovenia, on behalf of Danielsen, Grete Knudsen, Asmund Kristoffersen, Morten Lund, Siri Frost Sterri, Åse Wisløff Nilssen and Haakon Blankenborg, on Wednesday 23 February to Thursday 24 February, from Helene Falch Flatmark, on leave to attend a conference chaired by the Atlantic Association of Young Political Leaders in Brussels, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate representative of the Hedmark County, Olav Teppen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting with the representative Åse Wisløff Nilssen's leave on 23 and 24 February due to illness. Other alternates of the South Trøndelag County, Bjørg Bruset, are requested to be exempted from meeting under the authority of the representative Morten Lund on 23 and 24 February, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Hedmark County: Knut NysetherFor Hordaland County: Gard FolkvordFor Møre and Romsdal County: Kjell Terje Fevåg For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar FossnesFor Oslo: Sissel Dagslet and Berit KvävenFor Telemark County: Gunn Marit HelgesenFor Sør-Trøndelag County: Ole Herman Jørgensen and Michael Momyr3. Knut Nysetther and Michael Momyr are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Åse Wisløff Nilssen and Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e196	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e201	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e206	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and the Kjell Engebretsen shall be deemed unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Erik Solheim, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e211	I will be presented with proposals to ask the Government to present an action plan for upgrading information and communication technologies in the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e216	The proposal by Erik Solheim will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e228	First of all, I must be allowed to say that in case of an incurrency, it is in the text referred to an attachment from the Statens Arbeitsgemeinschaftsinstitutt that has not been attached. I would have to spend some time on this matter. It is a major and important matter that deserves a thorough review. It's pretty sharp criticism the Riksaudition presents, and it's a unanimous committee that hasn't exactly softened the criticism. On the contrary, it is rare for the committee to state so clearly that an office does not do its job well enough. The Committee has, for its part, the Riksrevisionen, LO, NHO, the Institute for Safety and Health at Work and the Ministry of Social Affairs in much of the criticism. Then it remains to be seen how the social security director and department deal with the criticism further. You come up with a lot of constructive input in that way. The social security system says they're on the right track, and we're looking forward to them showing that. But I have to say that I was a little concerned when I discovered that the Swedish Government called for a press conference on the same day that the committee was going to give an opinion. The daily report showed a few days later a report showing 60 pst. increase in the use of active search messages in the last two years. I must stress that all the increase is good. The point of the Committee is that there are too few measures compared to the total number of sick-seekers. It's across the 6 pst. today. But if the time bill started after the last manager became Minister of Health, then that's 60 pst. Good, because it's true that there's been a good increase in the last two years. But I want to warn against a campaign to decorate the numbers. This is a major and important case that concerns individuals, and there are solutions for the individual that are important – not pedigree and demonstrative exercises. We need to find better ways to organise the arrangements. This should not mean that employees in the social security office may not have done their job. I know they've already done a lot. They're under pressure, and I'm convinced they've done the best they can. The problems are more structural than they were. We must not end up with social security workers being so congested that they end up in the statistics on sick leave. We can do a lot in this area. There is a lot to pick up by following up the sick person, the retired or the disabled in a different and better way than today. The point is to go from passiveness and social security benefits to activity and combine work and social security in periods where necessary. But it should still be allowed to be ill. It is important to create openness and not bullying or making it difficult for people to be partially sick. It is a challenge both for the sick and for the employed – not least for the trade unions, because this is about the quality of life of people. And it's about money, a lot of money: 70-80 billion dollars in total costs, according to the NHO, so just 10 pst. improvement can actually give a few billions. The survey shows that sick leave has been increasing since 1994, and that more people are going ill despite the objective of reducing sick leave. The use of measures is overall low and the results are not consistent with the objectives of the feedback message. In particular, the Committee emphasises the line of work, i.e.: measures to keep people at work or to help them get into work rather than receive social security benefits, as an important tool. The working line means taking care of those who are at risk of being exposed to inaction and social security schemes and, on the other hand, ensuring that as much as possible can be at work. All experience and research shows that the longer the sick leave lasts, the less likely it is to return to normal work. Passivity can make the disease feel worse. You're not sick, you're not healthy. You should be able to be sick without having to keep the bed. You can work a little while waiting for treatment. The low use of measures must be seen in the context of the fact that the social security offices have in practice not established sufficient close contact with the sick-seeker, treating doctor and employer, in line with the intentions of the notification. Almost all social security agencies in the survey find that lack of resources hinders them in their follow-up work, and many have stated that follow-up of sick people requires more resources than the social security office believes it is safe to use. I think that is strange because for many years this has been among the highest priority areas in the social security system. According to the social security offices, this goes particularly beyond contact with the sick and the employers. The Swedish Social Fund explains the low effort with a lack of skills and human resources, and the great dissatisfaction with computer equipment and computer support. This mostly affects the sick and the employers and that the time limit for the 12-week decisions makes quality a balancing item. The Rikstrøgdeverket acknowledges that the qualitative side of the follow-up work has been too small. The study also shows that out of the 100 posts allocated to the service in the context of the reform, only one third have been used exclusively for follow-up to the sick. Up to now, the follow-up rate for the sick has been reflected in a larger proportion of 12 week decisions taken at the right time and a certain increase in the use of the active search message: from 0.8 pst. to 3.9 pst. during the period in which the Riksrevision has looked at, and at 60 pst. Increases in use in the last two years are well above 6 pst. With regard to the use of other instruments, the study shows that the social security situation has fallen short and that the expectations and requirements of the establishment related to the treatment of the recovery message by the Storting seem not to be sufficiently met. Forty pst. of the cases beyond 12 weeks of search there is no documented contact between the establishment and other actors. The contact between the sick person and the doctor is essential in the exchange of standard forms. Possible follow-up decisions are not discussed between a doctor and a social security office. Contact with the employer is also low and largely limited to active health care. Consultant doctors are used little and to a small extent for possible follow-up measures. We need more practical solutions. Today, the bureaucratic and regulatory arrangements are characterised by form fields. We need faster treatment and faster implementation of measures, and we also need to look at legislation. We need to find better methods of control, but, of course, take into account the principle of non-discrimination. There is a question of whether there are too many actors, so that responsibility is powdered. The measurement of results needs to be more qualitative. The social security offices have been faced with too much quantity. The point was to count as much finished stuff as possible. This can no longer be the case, and therefore we need to have a review of procedures at local social security offices. Furthermore, we must think against a distortion of economic instruments against enterprises, and consider compensation or some form of reward for enterprises that have employees with disabilities. The use of carrots and whips may also be appropriate to reduce the absence. This has to be arranged so that we can still take care of the line. There shall not be a sucker pipe in the treasury or gain from those who employ only young and healthy people. There are actually some things that do today, and unfortunately there are also state corporations among them. We need to make better use of occupational health services and focus more on residual working ability – from what people cannot do, to what they can do, even if they have pain and damage. We need to use the occupational health service more in prevention. At the hearings, we have heard that there is often a cultural conflict between the social security system and the labour market, and some of the measures are lacking. Lack of interaction between social security, health and employment needs to be addressed in a completely different way than has been done at present. It appears that the target and result system does not promote the policy objective of the working line. Measurable quantitative quantities are, as I said, at the expense of the follow-up of sick people, because it is time-consuming, and there are also no good systems to measure this qualitatively. It also seems that there is too much time going on for control, reporting and administration. There is enough shortage of resources, and the Storting is good at undercutting by changes in the rules and new measures. We are aware of that. However, there is also a question of whether the social security system is able to achieve the objective of today's instruments. Another question is which groups of sick people should be followed up, i.e. who should be given priority in response. I was so involved in the occupational health service. Physiotherapists are likely to be better used and may be able to detect early-stage problems. The Ministry of Labour and Administration assesses the future of occupational health services. Both the LO and the Institute for Safety and Health at Work were concerned with possible changes that I believe the department should consider, and I hope that the department does not make proposals until we see the whole of this. Another question is whether it is the social security offices that are best to have contact with the other actors, both business leaders and trustees. The causes of the extent of sick and unemployed persons are complex. There are tough demands on the labour market, but we will need the labour force more and more and for a period of time also those with reduced working capacity. The pattern we see today, with musculoskeletal and cardiovascular diseases and mental disorders, will probably increase in the future. Therefore, it is very important that these activities are offered rather than passivity. In fact, activity can make you more healthy, and that's why these measures are very important. In the opinion of the Committee, we should focus more on how healthy people are and how much they can work during the sick period, rather than refer people to passivity. Lack of alternative jobs, especially in small businesses, is of course a problem. Attitudes towards colleagues are different, and any employer should be able to respond to the fact that there are conditions of day-to-day operation that could harm health, ranging from occupational diseases to staff conflicts. It is an obligation for any management to form a picture and take action in this way. So we need a new way of thinking about it. It is a crossroads of thought that people with quite a hard disability are fighting for work, while others with much less damage or suffering go ill for a long time. The challenge is to find work tasks that are appropriate to function. Active health care services make it easier to adapt the work of a sick person with residual ability to work. At Nuttøøy Social Security Office you have 20 p.m. active search message - a result of systematic work. They take time to make the scheme known, and the number can still be increased. Active sick leave is a smooth transition to normal work, and in several places this has been used to improve the working environment and increase the safety of employees. There is therefore a high potential for action. Folkehelsa conducted a survey in 1996 that showed that 90-100 pst. of those asked with experience would continue to use the scheme, and three-quarters considered the scheme to be an effective measure to prevent long-term health care notifications, so there is no lack of potential. In the opinion of the Committee, the Ministry should review the role, tasks and instruments of social security offices in the follow-up of the sick and the responsibilities and role of the various actors with a view to determining whether there is an appropriate use of resources and whether the real problems are properly addressed. The Committee does not exclude that there may be too many actors involved, as I have pointed out earlier. The Committee believes that employers should take greater responsibility for the follow-up of the sick and that a more comprehensive study of all actors' efforts should also be carried out. The Committee calls on the Ministry to promote measures which help passive beneficiaries to become more active and indicates that experience and research show that the longer a sick leave lasts, the less likely it is to return to normal work. More than half of those who have been sick for more than three months are not coming back to work. Therefore, early intervention is very important, and it is important to start organising and activities at the workplace as early as possible. The Committee would like to see a broad assessment of whether we currently have the right structures and legislation to achieve the objective. The Committee asks the Ministry to investigate the follow-up system for the sick so that it can function properly and to examine whether we have the necessary practical follow-up device. The Social Security Office has an approval, control and guidance function. Follow-up should not necessarily be vis-à-vis the individual subject, but perhaps vis-à-vis organised, established cooperation bodies. It will also mean that the role of the doctor needs to be activated and involved in a more appropriate way, and the Institute for Safety and Health at Work outlines how this can be done. The Committee proposes that the Storting should now, by means of a decision, ask the Government to review the consequences of the purchase of health services in view of whether they are in violation of those already on the waiting list. We wonder who can be affected – children, insured persons or pensioners. Some people believe that the waiting list needs to be longer when the problem is a lack of professionals. In a smaller hospital with one specialist, extended opening time may not be sufficient. We also want to know more about the types of services involved and the extent to which the purchase is made through public or private health services. Furthermore, we ask the Government to calculate the socio-economic savings generated by the purchase of healthcare. The Committee also proposes the promotion of a comprehensive communication on sick leave, disability, tools, knowledge, skills, resources and cooperation between establishments, healthcare and the sick. I boasted of the National Audit Office last week in dealing with local wage negotiations, and also had this matter in mind. I am very pleased that the Riksrevision is doing its job – discovering realities and demonstrating that the decision to collapse is not being followed up. In this case, we all have a responsibility for achieving the objective of the return message and the welfare message. There's been a lot of criticism of the social security system, but I think we can do it if we do things to think new and more problem-solving. However, more offensive measures need to be taken on the part of the social security system, more targeted actions and clearer priorities. I've spent some time on this, because I think it was important to have a proper review. The position is unanimous on all points, and I therefore recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e302	It is an important area for the National Audit Office’s investigation – for the sick person, but also for enterprises, employers and society as a whole. Recent research shows that passivity can often exacerbate the condition of the sick person. Long-term search reports tend to be the entrance to disability pension, and the longer a sick leave lasts, the less likely it is to return to normal work. Therefore, it is particularly important that the use of the eartags is concentrated on the early phase. In many diseases and plagues, activity is better than passivity. We should therefore focus more on how healthy one is and how much one can work during the sick pay period, rather than refer people to inaction. In addition to the human aspects of health care and exclusion from the labour market, social costs will arise. The NHO suggests an annual amount of SEK 70-80 billion if you include payments for sick pay, disability benefits and rehabilitation. In 1998, the cost of the sickness fund chapter was DKK 16.6 billion, and more than 80 pst. of the total number of sick leave days is held by 5 pst. by employees. Personal follow-up is therefore extremely important and appears to have a high potential for quality improvement. Here it is essential that all parties contribute. I would also like to stress that having people with low working capacity in work is desirable, although it involves social costs. Moreover, it is positive that the use of active search reports has increased, and the study shows that this is the action that social security services give the highest priority. But the use is still a message. With regard to the IT system in the establishment, the Rikstrøgdeverket should contribute to an improvement in the competence and quality of the system, so that it is no longer felt necessary for the social security offices to operate with manual systems alongside. It is important to take the necessary measures to achieve the objectives already adopted by the EEA. As part of the examination of the National Audit Office’s document, the Committee asked for an explanation of the measures taken by the Social Security Office after the Riksaudition concluded its studies. In a letter from the Social Minister of 17 December 1999, significant improvements have been made since then and as a result of the action plans for follow-up to the sick. Among other things, the quantitative performance requirements are replaced by more qualitative performance targets, and there is a greater focus on interaction with the sick-seeker, healthcare and employers. The Ministry has also asked the National Agency to start work to identify performance indicators that measure the impact of the work and use of instruments on sick leave. This is positive, and that indicates that you're on the right track. It is positive that the Government of the Equalisation Communication has called for a softer line of work, with measures involving greater flexibility and better adaptability to the individual’s health and working capacity, and that the Government has reduced a wide-ranging public range of measures to address sick leave and disability. At the same time, it appears that the follow-up work on the sick has produced small documented results for the time being. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to promote a comprehensive communication on sick leave and disability pensions, including the assessment of instruments, knowledge, competences and resources, as well as cooperation between establishments, the workplace and the sick person. Furthermore, the unanimous recommendation of the Committee is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e321	At the end of 1998, the cost of sick pay was 16 billion dollars, and this is a pretty significant amount. Since 1994, we have had a constant increase in sick leave despite the stated objective of reducing it. The most worrying thing is that it is especially long-term sick leave that increases. There has been a greater increase in female sick leave than in men, and many of those with long-term disease have musculoskeletal disorders. Several of the long-term ill-reporters are also people waiting for treatment or surgical intervention. This last point has been addressed by the fact that it is open for the social security system to use sick pay to buy healthcare. However, as the Committee also notes, one should be very careful that this does not go at the expense of others waiting for treatment. It is worrying that long-term sick leave seems to increase more in the public sector than in the private sector, and it is particularly related to the care sector. It is reasonable to assume that this is related to heavy care, but also to a sector characterised by low wages and understaffing. The public must have a specific responsibility for the development of the working environment in this sector. All experience shows that the longer your sick leave lasts, the less likely you are to return to normal work. Over half of those who have been sick for more than three months are not coming back to work. Therefore, early and, at the earliest possible stage, early action and organisation at the workplace must be undertaken. The social security system has been strengthened through appropriations to follow-up this work and the work of long-term health care professionals. 100 posts were added to the establishment to follow it up. However, the National Audit Office points out that, in practice, the social security offices have not established close contact with the sick person, the doctor and the employer, as foreseen by the Stortinget. And the National Audit Office also points out that only one third of the posts are used after the intention. This is quite incomprehensible when one knows how massive a person has expressed his political will and desire to do something about sick leave, and the emphasis he has placed on individual solutions for the individual long-term sick. If there are limitations in the social security organisation itself that have made it difficult, and make it difficult, an individual follow-up, it should have been reported. When a person knows the importance of having an adapted job as early as possible based on his or her health situation, it is very important to have such an individual follow-up when he or she sees and understands that the course of the disease can be long lasting. It is therefore important, as the Committee suggests, for a review of the social security system to take account of the needs of the establishment to follow up the intention of the Stortinge on the individual follow-up of the long-term sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e332	The National Audit Office has evaluated its work on the follow-up of health care professionals from 1994 to 1998. I'm mainly written in the National Audit Office's assessments and conclusions. It has taken too long for the social security system to focus its follow-up work on more qualitative aspects, that is to say individual follow-up of the individual health care provider in cooperation with the social security system. It was necessary to get the formal basis for follow-up work in place first, but it was also too heavy. The drugstore is now on the right track. I want, of course, to say that what is pointed out by the Riksrevision will be followed up further. Better quality in follow-up work, including better cooperation with healthcare and employers, will be a priority in 2000. The county councils shall draw up concrete state plans by August 2000. When it comes to the use of the 100 posts that had been filled in the Social Security Act since 1994, the starting point for the Riksrevisions report, I refer you to letters to the Committee. The same correspondence also shows that the steering signals between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Swedish National Agency have become more detailed. Focus has been moved from quantity to quality. Social security agencies are responsible for the management of social security funds. They should work to ensure that the individual receives the benefits they are entitled to, and at the same time that the social security benefits are used properly. As long as people’s pension is to pay sick pay, it must be the responsibility of the social security services to follow up the health care provider, to check that the rules are followed and to help the health care provider return to work as soon as possible. The prevention of sick leave, the follow-up and the organisation of work for sick workers must be carried out in the workplace. This is also the result of the Work Environment Act, and is a management responsibility in the enterprises. The role of social security agencies is to be a guide and a driver. This means that the social security offices must have good contact both with the health care provider and with the employer. In many enterprises, the prevention of sick leave is an integral part of health, environmental and security work. Many companies have good procedures for follow-up of health care professionals. It is important that other companies that have not received it equally benefit from these experiences. In cooperation with the labour market, the Ministry grants approximately 10 million a year to test activities in the social security sector. kr for various projects. To obtain the good copies, I took the initiative to create an idea bank in the workplace. There is a cooperation project between the public authorities and the social partners. The Idea Bank shall collect and systematise knowledge of sick leave and disseminate knowledge and experience to the labour market. Active medical report is a good tool to try out how much the sick person is able to cope with illness. The employee is able to keep in touch with the job in a flexible way. He or she may return to normal work in the past. So it's both enjoyable and unthinkable that the scheme will be used more. In 1997, 2 psts were used. by those who are in active health care. In 1999, the figure was 24 000, or 5.4 pst. by all medical practitioners, on active medical report. There are 9 000 more than in 1998. 5.4 pst. is the average, so that means that there was a higher number at the end of the year. I agree with the committee that there is still a great potential here. I am busy developing tools to improve cooperation and coordination across sectors and sectors. It is important and crucial for many with more complex problems to receive the help they need in order to continue or return to work. As the Government briefed the size of the budget proposal last fall, there is already a lot of work in progress that has just been working together across management levels and areas as a theme. The size of the population has asked for a plan to improve cooperation between the labour market, social security and social services in the municipalities with a view to preventing some people from becoming so-called wasteballs between different etats. I see it as a support for a commitment to better forms of cooperation, and will come back to it in budgetary terms. User office at Grünerløkka in Oslo is now open in March. It's an example and a visualization of collaboration across etaters. During the spring of 2000, the government will review the health care purchase scheme. The objective is a nationwide and permanent design of the scheme in accordance with decisions taken by the Stortinget. The review will be based on a comprehensive evaluation and on experience in the social security system. This is in line with the Government's statement in St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98, which was submitted together with the revised national budget in spring 1998. In the light of this work, the Government will present the issue to the Storing during 2000. Assessing, inter alia: of course, the elements pointed out by the Committee will be central to the review to be carried out in the Ministry. It is an objective that the measure should be fully integrated into the work of the social security system on the follow-up of health care professionals from 2001. The Committee questions whether we have legislation and instruments to adapt the current situation and the challenges ahead. The Committee would like to see a broad assessment. So the first part of that, we've already started. The Sandman Committee has been mandated to address the reasons for the increase in sick leave and for new access to disability pension. The selection shall carry out a comprehensive assessment of the measures and regulatory changes put in place. Measures to reduce sick leave and disability should be considered. In addition, the selection shall discuss environmental measures in enterprises, treatment and follow-up measures to health-care professionals, as well as measures to strengthen individual and enterprise responsibilities for health, the environment, sick leave and work-related activities. The selection is wide-ranging, and the NHO and LO are in the selection. The adjustment shall take place before 1 June 2000. The resolution suggests that the selection setting should be followed up. A torrent message will be a decent form. Let me also mention two other important documents in relation to the topic we are discussing today. One is the follow-up to the rehabilitation message, as stated by the Stortinget, and there are proposals contained in the Equalisation Communication, such as: put the search light on the greater possibility of combining work and social security, and there is a message to be addressed by Stortinget now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e351	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e354	I am not a moment in doubt about the good will of the Council of State, of the Department and also of the Social Security Agency, and I am also pleased that the Council of State meets the Committee as she does. But my question is: when these follow-up measures have been given the highest priority for many years and we have too poor results and the use of measures is too modest, what is new? What is the difference between previous priorities and current priorities? There's probably no hokuspokus, but I would think that maybe there's some kind of miracle medicine prescribed that makes someone now suddenly meet the goals. Is there resources, is there competence, or is there any other measure that will make everything so much better in the year 2000? I hope so. But my question is, what concrete thing, that hasn't been done before, is what separates past promises and today's, so that we don't just get a new set of verbal priorities and celebrations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e361	Let me first underline that, in relation to the targets set in the feedback message, it is probably due to the increase in sick leave, more needs, for example. the fact that there are more workers than ever able to participate in the labour market and that there is an increase in the cost of pay osb. But here's a clear recognition that you should be able to measure the results of the follow-up work to be done, you also have to have indicators that allow you to perform such a measurement. And here we've been through a period where the social security system has been busy getting formalities in place, the decisions to make, osb, and then one by one has come to put the search light in the way that you follow, and the way that you can measure it, and actually what per. date not measurable. Some of the things that are new are for the first time an increased exposure, e.g. in relation to active sick leave and other measures, and one has seen the search light on the responsibilities at work. On the other hand, the development of performance indicators, which are now the task of the social security system. The most important thing is the action plan for cooperation with other agencies, such as health services or employers, to be developed by the county councils by August 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e368	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e371	Yes, we will, and we will, but we will not – it is now a reality. In this decade, there has been an extensive political will in the Great Britain, and in society as a whole, to bet on the line of work, that is, to give priority to people taking advantage of what they had in their skills and knowledge of the world of work. You should get combination solutions that made it possible to live up to this society without being completely healthy or completely sick – that's not the way it is, because pretty much we're all a little sick – and get to the flexibility that's necessary to get what we want. But we haven't got it done, it just gets worse and worse. The size, and in a lot of cases, has huge ambitions about what we're going to do, and what we're going to succeed in, creating expectations out there. So it goes ten years, and then you have to go in yourself, and see that it hasn't gone as we wanted. The National Audit Office's report is visible in a number of areas, but in this area in particular, that we need to do things differently, we need to be able to succeed. It's not just a question of spending money and resources, it's not just a question of creating systems to measure quantity in order to measure quality, it's also a question of how this society is organized. I'm a little worried when the Council of State says that when we just get to these action plans, which are going to show how the different actors in this are going to cooperate, that's going to be good. We have had ambitions and plans to work together, but the National Audit Office report shows that there is no contact between the social security system, the employer, the treating doctor and the sick person – all those who will work together to make this pay. And I don't think we'll succeed by just adopting some new action plans. Some organizational steps must be taken, including: are willing to go in and see if it is the right institutions to deal with these issues. Is it possible to establish cooperation between the social security system, the social security system, the occupational health service, the employer, the treating doctor and, in some cases, the social work office and the sick person themselves in such a way that we make this work? In this case, at least the social security system must move out of its offices and take an active part in the work that is actually to be done. That is why I very much hope that in the context of the future big messages in this area, we are realistic, that we describe goals that can be achieved, and that this will not only be wishful thinking, where we are creating new expectations that we are not able to meet, because we are doing so in a number of areas. The National Audit Office's report describes in many ways why we don't get it, even though the National Audit Office doesn't have the task, and it won't have it in the future, to tell us what to do differently. But they describe how reality works. We're going to have to take that inwards. When the Committee asks the Government to promote a comprehensive communication on sick leave and disability pensions, including the assessment of instruments, knowledge, competences and resources, cooperation between agencies such as social security, labour market law, social services, health services, workplaces and the sick, we do not want to return action plans on how this should be in 10 years’ time – then we want concrete proposals on how to organise these support functions in this society in the future in order to get a result that really makes it possible for the working line to be the priority. I know that these are difficult choices. It is not so easy to go to a social security office and say that you are not qualified to do this job, this causes the labour market seat to do – or vice versa, go to the labour market seat and say that this is not qualified for you to do, this causes the social security system to do. But I think you have to realize that some agencies have to have an overall responsibility – order a service and get it, without just having a wish that at regional and local level, a group that is composed of the different agencies, who are going to sit there and have meetings, and then there will be no results. That's what happens most of the time. There'll be a lot of meetings, and it doesn't help the sick person around. I want to say this because, hopefully, we have to stop wanting to, and express our wish in big business messages and big business decisions, without having a clear idea of how to achieve the goal. This is going to cost money, but the possibility of this also giving income is enormous. Only 2-3 pst. improvement in sick leave will, of course, provide not only the state, but society as such huge revenues for redistribution. Here, I think both the government and the big business have to be minded that we also have to invest some financial resources if we're going to reach results, and then pick up the profit of this afterwards. Then, of course, there are questions about priorities, this is measured against other things, but then you have to make demands. This is not a criticism of the current Social Minister, nor a criticism of former Social Ministers. The size cannot be seen in saying that 100 posts are to be used for a particular purpose, and the department considers it appropriate to use most of these posts for anything else, because it is necessary to improve the quality of the decision-making basis. Jammen – Stortinget did not know that the social security system did not have a good enough system to make decisions. No one has ever told this house! It is only through the National Audit Office's report that we have come to realize that we had to work intensively to get a reporting form that made you have a full overview. We didn't know that! That is why it is important for us now to have a new big message, for all the information needed to enable the Storting to make the right decision is in place, and then, hopefully, we can take the political decisions and make the economic priorities that will enable us to achieve the goal, so that we not only will and will but also get it done for the next decade!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e395	Now we're deep into the premise and the discussion about the new staging message that's to come. I guess that's what makes the members of the social committee also participate in the discussion and debate, which I think is nice and good. It is clear that in this area, as we in the Progress Party have argued over a long period of time, this work has not been taken seriously and the individual report is not properly prioritised. It is therefore gratifying to note that the National Audit Office's review of the follow-up of the social security system to the sick reports shows that both the LO and the NHO agree with the warnings that we have received for years in the Progress Party. The Council of State said in its statement that she mainly agreed with the Riksrevision. It should be lacking that the Council of State did not agree with the Riksrevision, because the criticism that the Riksrevision has included in its document shows that the Social Security Agency and the Ministry have not, at least according to the information they have provided to the Stortinget, had a good enough overview of this pilot project, as it was in their time to designate even posts – 100 in the figure – in order to follow up this work. When we see how one has followed up until now, it is clear that within the social security system and department, this work is focused, and in spring 2000, we will get an evaluation and review of this system with the experience they have gained. I would like to say, on behalf of the Progress Party, that the Social Security Act must not follow the overall responsibility they have in this area, and that it is the employer who will again cover the extra costs of a system when the social security system does not follow up and do the work they are going to do. Here we have to interact, but there can be no doubt that it is the social security system that is to follow up and premise, and that is to take into account the individual's situation in order to coordinate it with either the social security system, the labour market, the social services, the health service or the workplace and the individual who has been diagnosed. It is a clear message from the Progress Party when we first consider the premise for the Storing Message: no more loads on the employer in such a situation. Instead, the government gets back to Stortinget and asks for the necessary resources to carry out this project – in respect of the sick person, who needs a system that is tailor-made and that allows one to participate in the labour market, and that one can be included and have an opportunity to succeed socially. We're also in line with what's being said from more people here in the hall, and we're looking forward to the message that's coming. We expect action plans to be put into practice and the system to be tailored to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e411	I listened with interest to the Council of State on what were the forthcoming plans, and on what was new, new grip. The councils referred to a reinforced commitment, but that commitment I think has actually been there from the very beginning of the treatment of the welfare message at least, that here things should be done a lot different than today. Then there was the development of performance indicators and an action plan for cooperation. It's good that there'll be cooperation, because there's probably a lack of cooperation. But the question is, is there cooperation in itself that is the goal, or is it the sick person? And what I want to ask the Council of State for in concrete terms is: in what cooperation we are now talking about, who is responsible for the social security system, the social security office or the labour market system? Is it so that there is one person designated to be responsible for each individual, or is there a floating concept of responsibility where everyone has some responsibility, and no one is fully responsible? I'm very interested in knowing, because I don't think I can keep going, because then we can stand here on the Storting's pulpit and talk and then there's absolutely nothing happening. Here you must have a declaration of responsibility in the future. I am absolutely convinced that we need to take some new steps, and I hope the Council of State can confirm that in the handling of the Equalisation Communication it will also address this issue. And I want to ask the Council of State if she agrees that it may be necessary for the working life itself to take a greater responsibility to facilitate, so that one avoids the exclusion mechanisms that we see today, which are so precious both for the working life and for society, and that a greater responsibility can also be accompanied by economic compensation. I am absolutely convinced that if we reduce sick leave, and it can cost something, it is the cost of income acquisition or great savings both for society and for our businesses, and not least it will mean a better quality society. One of the most important tasks we face is to adapt our working life to the people we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e420	The follow-up of the social security system to the health report is what is now the main theme. In the case of sick leave, it is the sick person himself who has to be at the centre — on the one hand, when it relates to schemes that provide basic security in relation to being ill, on the other hand, in relation to the workplace where the individual is assigned. The workplace should have an inclusive working environment where both the trainee and his/her colleagues are present, not least in relation to a system of active sick leave, which has carried out a slightly different task from that of the trainee. Now we have a situation where 6 pst. of the long-term health reports provide 80 pst. of the long-term absence. It is not at least important in such a situation to place the search light at the workplace, whether it is the hold itself or for example. has to do with lifting devices in the care sector and much else. Both the workplace and the search light on the fact that 6 pst. stands for 80 pst. of the long-term absence, was of my first theme in my meeting with the parties. Then I also learned to know the great commitment that has been there for a long time. As Gunhild Eyepiece underlined, there have been a lot of engagements here, not least from the parties themselves, and there have been different projects with and without the government's support for many years. I remember two measures that were discussed at the meeting. One was a leadership responsibility campaign, to make the leaders themselves even more aware of their responsibilities at work, but it was rejected by the largest employers’ organisations. The idea bank moved on to a joint venture. So that was the question, who's responsible for what? To that I would say: the social security system has a responsibility for the follow-up of the health care provider, because the social security system is responsible for the payment of sickness benefits – that is the short version. At the same time, it will not be the social security system to enter and instruct the individual workplace; at the workplace, the employer has his or her share of responsibility, not least according to what has already been laid down in the environmental work law and other responsibilities at a workplace. It is important that, in the future, we be able to focus more than today on how to work together – the sick person himself, the social security system, employers, health services, the labour market, local business, who it may be – not for the sake of co-operation, but for the benefit of both the individual infirm and the individual workplace. I met the people's fears of spending their sick money as a curve as a continuous path, as soon as I entered the department. A sick absence is a major dilemma for the individual sick, and as the case-leader said, it is still allowed to be ill. It's a dilemma for the individual workplace; it's a dilemma for many leaders; it's not at least a dilemma with regard to the public budget, which one would like to have seen many other good measures. And based on this, it's now good both that the Sandman selection is in line with its setting, and that there's so broad a deal in the Stortinget about a big message that further puts the search light on this. But let me stress: I am apathetic about the work to be done further. All experience suggests that there is no sesame-sensible to get better arrangements, but we need to focus on what is good, and try to do better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e433	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e447	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e456	As the setting indicates, the Committee suggests that Document No. 8:55 for 1998-99 is annexed to the Protocol, having regard to the fact that the Stortinge has its own big message on the recruitment of the teaching profession. I refer you to St. Announcer. No 12,... and occupation shall be carried by the boat... The majority sees it as not appropriate to address the issue of government pay policy towards teachers detached from other measures that may have an impact on the recruitment of the teaching profession. And that is especially the failing recruitment that is the starting point for the proposals of the Progress Party in this case. A natural consequence of the majority decision would be that this debate was very short. However, since both the Advance Party and the Right in their comments, especially the Advance Party, are still concerned with the facts of the matter, I also find it necessary to express some views. First of all, I would like to remind you that it is not the case today that the municipalities do not have the opportunity to differentiate their salary. This applies both to school leaders and teachers. In the last wage settlement in spring 1999, it was opened for municipalities to raise their wages if they had special recruitment problems or to retain qualified staff. This also applies to counties in relation to secondary schools. Among other things, there are few restrictions on the ability of municipalities to use the newly created job title ‘senior teacher’. This may, for example: is used to ensure career opportunities for qualified teachers. It is clear from a letter from the Ministry that the salary can then be fully determined on the basis of an individual assessment of the individual teacher's competence, regardless of both the length of the training and the duration of the service. The Workers' Party is also, of course, engaged in the recruitment of the teacher's profession, and in the context of the processing of this report, we will make several proposals that may help reverse the unfortunate developments we are seeing today. In my view, we are talking here about a very fundamental social relationship. Yes, I would say it is so strong that the quality of school, in addition to the overall growth conditions of children, is decisive for what society we will have in the future. And then I'm not thinking primarily of the individual student's ability to achieve good grades; I'm thinking more about what opportunities we're going to have to achieve the nice goals they've set for primary school education. In the general part of the Apprenticeship Plan, it is called, inter alia, the aim of training is to equip children, young people and adults to meet the challenges of life and to master challenges with others. It shall give each student the ability to take care of himself and his life and at the same time profit and not least the willingness to assist others. So learn to master challenges with others, and at the same time develop a willingness to help others. How important it is to counteract egoism and pointed elbows that push others, anyone can imagine. Nor would it be difficult to realize that failure at this point would have social consequences. I find no reason to hide that I have a strong scepticism for the solutions of the Advance Party. Of course, if an individual remuneration system is to be introduced according to competence, some criteria have to be laid down as to what a skilled teacher is. Somehow you have to be able to grade teachers. To me, this seems to be an impossibility, especially if you want to avoid the so-called nag factor, that it becomes part of the system, which the Progress Party actually doesn't want. How, for example, to do this. assess how good the individual teacher is when it comes to achieving the target I mentioned, and how should we compensate that teachers do not always have the same student basis to work with? Because you have to achieve a minimum of justice. Since the Progress Party is taking steps to promote its own proposal in the UK on flexible wage policies, it must be because they see such a solution as a very important measure, perhaps the most important one, in order to address the recruitment problems. In my view, it will be a formidable bomb shot. Firstly, I have no faith in the fact that wage increases in this area will increase the quality of education. I don't believe so badly in the Norwegian doctrine. The importance of wages for recruitment is clear, but not necessarily more than the salary of the colleague. The only sure thing we can say about the proposal is in my view that it will label someone as b-teachers and c-teachers, and that without it happening in a fair way. It can in turn lead to those who have resources, letting their children go to the school that has the most a-teachers. Competition between schools must result in such a development. It also has to be said that when society facilitates the development of some schools, which will of course be in the richest municipalities, into some form of elite schools, the same society has to find that parents who only have their kids in the worst schools with the worst teachers have to be compensated for their lost opportunities. In other words, when do we get the first trial from students who didn't get the best paid A-teacher, and for that reason went out of school with a lower level of knowledge than others? Because it is quite obvious that it will be that a poorly paid teacher is a bad teacher. The situation today is such that the application for teacher training is falling. One-fifth ends during the study, and three pst. Of those who finish, they're not going to work at school. Among teachers under 45 in primary school, there are twice as many women as men. Women are also in the majority of the youngest teachers in high school. One third of the teachers are over 50 years old. This is some of the background to the Workers' Party's suggestion that a separate notification on the recruitment issue be submitted. In my view, these challenges cannot be met by dividing teachers into categories based on diffuse criteria for what is a good teacher, on a totally random basis. The goal must be to do what can be called "b" students today, "a" students. Graduation of teachers will result in many students losing weight without teachers winning anything in particular. It must undoubtedly be a big effort at school. Such a bet is the Workers' Party willing to make. We'll get back to that in the treatment of St.meld. No 12th@item: The aim must be to increase the quality of public schools along with skilled teachers who thrive in the job, and a college meeting a challenging working environment that inspires innovation and interaction. It is not achieved by creating an unhealthy competitive relationship between teachers, but by providing them with the opportunity to do, through adequate financial resources and human resources — not least the last — the job that society expects and which is reflected in the overall objectives of the Storting itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e489	Despite the rapporteur's many good wishes, the Progress Party is considering a Document No. 8 proposals submitted more than a year ago cannot be dealt with within an acceptable timeframe. I will briefly, before I go further on the original matter, come to the case rapporteur's statement: When do we get the first case of lack of education? I am sorry that the rapporteur is not aware that we already have quite a few of them. I am disappointed that the majority in this matter, in the committee dealing with Document No. The 8 proposal, which has not been willing at an earlier stage to go on its own and show initiative, has wanted to wait for a general notice of teacher recruitment. What may make it worse for me is that if this general message had even been discussed in the committee dealing with the proposal, I could have had a certain understanding of coordination with good intentions and the sun in my back. But this is mostly exceeded, in my opinion. The proposal of the Progress Party on wage differentiation is based on flexibility and accepted for remuneration as a recruiter. The rapporteur is quite right about that. But this was also the Right and SV intensely concerned in the campaign, where the millions rolled faster than pancakes in the adventure. SV has even gone to the step of calling their good friends both in the Teachers' Team and in the Teachers' Association for cowards – and publicly! On the other hand, in this case the party of progress has behaved with a relatively large degree of conduity, but it is not unusual for this party. Teacher is a watered-down generic term for several groups of occupations within the school. For example, a preschool teacher is trainer for 6-year-olds, but unskilled labour for 7-year-olds. A university-educated teacher is a teacher in all subjects of primary school, regardless of the subjectship he has studied. A university graduate can teach in special subjects, a vocational worker with a pedagogical seminar is a teacher in secondary education, and a lecturer with seven years of university education is also a teacher in this system. Is it strange that we have recruitment problems? For example, teachers today are a very high-average age group, over 50 years old. It was also noted ten years ago that this average age was high. This is, as I mentioned earlier, a group of teachers with very high levels of education, even with specialization in a major subject. It goes without saying that if this group does not. is accepted for their education and professional competence in the form of a salary higher than that of a general teacher, this profession will be lost for our school in the next 10 to 15 years. We have lost a lot on quality. Does the majority want this? In the future, the Progress Party wants a wage policy based on knowledge, education, professional competence and individual school objectives and defined skills needs. This requires some kind of intellectual experience and understanding, but it shouldn't be impossible. Quality — both good and bad — can be measured through results. Let me briefly ask: Is bullying an expression of an inspiring school, or is it a symptom of a school in disintegration? Good teachers at all levels of sound professional competence must be a requirement, but it costs money. Will the majority be with the Advance Party and give competent teachers the promise they deserve through a differentiated pay system? And what does Right mean by its remark on ‘more flexible wage policy’? Is this just words without content, because the representative actually just a few days ago used almost all the available resources for research?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e506	It should be well known both inside and outside this hall that the Right believes that salary levels and pay flexibility are important components of work to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession. For this reason, the Right also promoted a proposal in April 1999 that the announced action plan for recruitment to the school should pay particular attention to the importance of wage policy. That this proposal was defeated, and that the Government did not follow the Right-wing advice, we have taken note, but it has not changed our view, that salary levels and pay flexibility should be assessed together with other measures to ensure high and stable school competence. In the pay policy for teachers, the Right attaches particular importance to increasing the general salary level of teachers combined with the possibility of pay differentiation and the transfer of the right to negotiate for teachers from the State to the municipality and the county. This is our vision. When we do not want to go into and debate the realities of the Progress Party's proposal now, it is not because the Right has changed. We have exactly the same view, but now the action plan is under consideration in the Committee which has taught as its main area. We think it is natural that these important pieces of the country’s school policy should be dealt with in the committee where they naturally belong. Wages and salaries flexibility cannot be seen in isolation from other school-based measures. It surprised me a little when I heard the rapporteur's investigation of how terrible it would be if we got a flexible payroll system and one were to go in and assess the salary after work. The right has not specifically stated the criteria to be used for flexibility, nor has the right ever said that effort can be measured directly on the basis of the level of character or the level of performance on the basis of fineness. Because it's not that the most powerful teachers are necessarily always the ones who have the best-performing classes. It may be in higher education, where there are other criteria underlying it than those underlying it in primary school. In primary school, we see that many of the very skilled teachers like to be put on the particularly difficult students. They do a great job, but one can't expect a measurable result, especially when we don't have a character system to measure this. So the result is not always synonymous with the amount of knowledge that can emerge in a normative test. This is very attentive to the right. That is why we do not want to go into the realities of the proposals of the Progress Party in the committee which has the proposal for consideration. We want to pass this on to the Education Committee, which sees it all in a broader context. We therefore agree that the general salary level for teachers must rise, and one must have flexibility that can be guided by subjects, scope and school levels. All of the pieces that can be criteria, we shouldn't be remotely controlling from this room. Norway has the most centralised primary school of the countries we like to compare with. This is also one of the school's problems, but it belongs to the committee that has all kinds of schools as its special responsibilities, and not to this committee. For this reason, the majority of the Committee's votes have been put to the vote to refer to the substance of the proposal of the committee to which it belongs and to attach Document No. The 8th motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e519	It's a little unclear to me what is the motive of the Progress Party – whether it's a genuine desire to do something about the teacher recruitment or an attempt to interfere in some kind of tariff system that the parties agree on. I also think that the contribution to Ursula Evje shows that she lacks knowledge about today's payroll system in the education sector. We have a pay system in the education sector where pay depends on formal competence. There are different pay ladders for different groups of teachers. And it's also important to be aware that in each school there's different pay depending on some functions. So the schools today have a limited possibility of pay differentiation, we know that. Wages and salaries are available for those with special functions, class managers, etc. So today's system opens up pay differentials in each school. And then you can discuss whether that pay differential goes far enough, whether other criteria should also be involved than those that are being used today. I have a strong sense that there should be opening so that more criteria than being a class manager and some other functions can be emphasised in the differentiation of wages. As others have said, the Church, Education and Research Committee works with St.meld. No 12th@item: We have to be done during this week. We have two days – 48 hours – to finish it, and then the Progress Party will be allowed to support proposals that clearly indicate that pay may be the most important tool if we are to draw enough teachers to the school. We are in Norwegian school today in a situation – and we should be aware of that – where 6-7 pst. lack of formal, approved teacher training. That's the actual ratio. In parts of the country, e.g. in North Norway, the proportion of teachers without approved education is significantly higher, for example, above 10 pst. in Finnmark. We are in a situation where we lack teachers, and we need to be willing to use tools to ensure the school's well-qualified teaching staff. I agree with those who have said that we have had a centralist wage policy on the teacher side. It's central agreements that govern most of the things. It has its advantages, but it also has its disadvantages, so we have to be willing to go in and look at it. It has its advantages in that we get a unified pay system that covers the whole country, so that we have so far avoided strong competition for teachers between different municipalities. It wouldn't serve this case very much, because overall, in this country, we have a lack of qualified teachers, and that's the share of these we have to be able to get. We have to increase the total offer of teachers, those who have some knowledge of economics, know that there is a connection between the offer and the price of a product, the price of a service. So there's a connection between the pay and the offer of teachers. We can't solve that problem by saying that schools within today's pay level will be allowed to pay higher wages to someone to whom they would like to pay higher wages. We can only solve this by raising the general salary level, that's the way we can do this, and that's going to give the Progress Party great opportunities to vote for when that matter comes up in the Storting in a week. Then we'll see if the Progress Party is on a proposal to give clear signals that this is the general salary level we now need to address. Then, of course, you can also put in proposals for differentiation, that each school can use several variables to differentiate wages, etc., but it is primarily about raising the general salary level. The serious thing about this show from the Progress Party as it is today is that we get a wrong focus. We get a focus on differentiation, and that's not the problem. Those who have followed in the debate, those who have seen the numbers, know that there is no problem. The problem lies, as I have said quite many times now, in obtaining enough qualified teachers, and as said, the Progress Party will have the opportunity to show whether they are willing to when we are going to deal with that matter in a matter of weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e535	Flexible wages will also come more and more in the teaching profession, and it is true that case-speakers were involved in their contribution, that we have already taken some steps towards a more flexible wage formation for these occupational groups as well. The progress party said in its post that it is bad that we have to wait so long to have a decision made, but I would like to remind you that there are less than two days left until we have to provide a setting where we see wages and other tools for teacher recruitment in conjunction, and that – as the representative Rikam was in the room – will be able to come back to this. If the teacher recruits get good or bad, there's probably a lot of things to do, but the pay question we don't get by, how we turn this around and turn it around. When the Storting decided in April 1999 to ask for a report on teacher recruitment, the Right put in the lead that we had to pay particular attention to pay issues. This was saddened by the Storting, but what we've seen in retrospect shows that this is the most central element, what the teachers themselves, their organizations and what society otherwise sees as the most important tool. When we see the problems that are constantly increasing when it comes to teacher recruitment, with increasing average age on the teachers, when we see that the search for the teachers' balls goes down -- it's almost halved in three or four years -- and when we see that a lot of teachers disappear, we have to take these problems seriously. And it's my hope that the pay question will also be central to the debate when we're going to discuss teacher recruitment. The case spokespersons talked about individual salaries, I guess that's what got me to take the word. He's telling us that we have to get the criterion, that we have to avoid the prime factor. The discussion may have been easy to hang out, because it's not about the criterion, it's not about the idea factor, it's about being able to evaluate locally the efforts of the individual teacher. Every student, every teacher, every parent, every teacher, every teacher's organization, and every part of the Workers' Party realize that there are good and bad teachers. Both the representative Breimo and I have met these people who are continuing to get a little extra space to stay in Norwegian school. We'll have plenty of time to come back to that. The issue of pay must be at the heart of the forthcoming debate on teacher recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e546	Knowledgeless, perhaps, from the eyes that look – incompetent, no – ideologically incompetent, never. That should be pretty good. Then we're going to deal with this as the rapporteur and several others have been involved. We have instruments in the tariff negotiations that were adopted last year. That's right, we got it. However, within these instruments there is a special agreement, a collective agreement, with a Chapter 2, where Sections 2-1 and 2-2 provide that the pot to be used for differentiated options for the municipality in the case of remuneration cannot be used if there is no full consensus between the parties. And if the teachers themselves put their feet down, you have no means, because someone has given them a complete veto right. And it might be time to start having a little bit of honesty when we talk about this. Then the rapporteur said that he did not want elite schools based on parents' resources. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is very much in agreement with the rapporteur. But it's amazing that these elite schools, if that's what he's thinking about, have come out through the private school law, where, among other things. The working party has not in any way been willing to equalise the economy of private and public schools so that it was not possible to get into this situation that parents' income and wealth ratios would determine whether students attended a good or a less good school. What is not to be put under a chair is that there are very good public schools, but there are also some that we have seen and are going to see in the future are very bad for each student. And we must begin to recognize that. So the representative says Løvik that there are only two days left until we can discuss the need for teacher recruitment. That's absolutely right. But more than a year has passed since the Progress Party promoted its Document No. Eight proposals, and it should be a mind-set for some people each. Because when you're so afraid to get out on the ice that you have to use bread on a hot summer day, something is quite wrong! I would also like to promote the proposal that we have included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e559	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestion she has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e562	I will try to put myself so that I do not extend the debate unnecessarily, but only have to make a few comments on what has been said. Of course, I know, and I have registered, that there are legal cases – they have been found until today, and there are today. But it's going to be something new when you experience legal cases because students don't get the best teachers. If one introduces such a system, one puts, as I see it, the proposal of the Advance Party, a quality stamp from society on the individual teacher. It will also be so that rich municipalities, rich schools and schools with resources will be able to win the competition and secure the teachers that society believes are best. There's going to be a big difference, in my opinion, between that and what's the current situation, because it's a fact that if you clean that system the Progress Party is in here, not everyone will go to the best school; everyone can't choose. So for the bullying that Ursula Evje was in. I find it hard to understand that you can stop bullying by gradating the pay of your teachers. I guess that's not how to understand that in those schools where bullying is most common, you have the worst teachers today – at least I don't think so. And then you also have to ask: if you now experience that a good school suddenly gets a bloom of bullying, a lot of bullying, do you have to reduce the pay of the teachers who are employed at this school because they no longer have the power to deal with the situation? Bullying is prevented by more teachers getting more time to deal with individual students, and that together they are able to create a good school environment. I'm convinced that's the only way to prevent bullying. Otherwise, I have never claimed that anyone in the Progress Party, or anyone else, is ideologically incompetent. I would never venture on such a claim – I have not confidence enough to do so, to say it that way. No, the problem is that ideology goes ahead of everything, whatever the consequences. The next thing will be a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e574	In contrast to most other parties, the party notes that there are major problems in obtaining qualified teachers. One reason is that teachers are competent in many professions and that many of these teachers can be better educated in these professions than teachers. This is especially true of the very best teachers. This – the vision of the other parties – loses the schools, and it is, as I see it, only the Progress Party who dares to do something about it. It loses the community, it loses the schools, and most importantly, it loses the students – the students, who in the fall election campaign all the parties said they would bet on. Today we have the opportunity to take the consequences of what we said last autumn. Nor does the Progress Party see the problems of having a flexible wage policy. That we're all different, is just the way society is, and we should be grateful for that. The Progress Party has registered that several countries, including England, has a flexible teacher's salary, with several steps on the pay ladder for teachers who stand out. That, in the view of the Progress Party, gives the students an opportunity to get better results, and we all have to have that as a common goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e585	I note that the debate is in full swing on the action plan to be presented in a few days' time, but I was so provoked by the rapporteur's last speech that I feel the urge to make such a small contribution. Because it's not like today that everyone goes to the best school. And it really has nothing to do with the level of pay of the teachers. But there's a difference between schools, there's a difference between students, and there's a difference between teachers. When the Right wants a general pay gap at the bottom and then a flexible pay policy to ensure teachers with special skills and a high level of competence within their disciplines, it is to give the whole primary school a boost. The teachers know, when they're applying for a school, if it's a good school or if it's a bad school, to say it like that. Teachers are looking intently, but there is no opportunity for primary school students to do so. If we're going to have the quality promise in Norwegian school that Norwegian children deserve, and that Norwegian society needs when we're going to meet the knowledge challenge in the future, yes, then we're going to have to bet on the teachers. The teachers are the core people when we're going to meet tomorrow's challenges. Then pay levels and pay flexibility are essential elements of the overall measures needed to raise Norwegian school to the level that our children and young people deserve. This debate comes too fully in a few weeks, but the Labour Party must not believe that pay is an immaterial instrument. It's not just LO workers who look at pay. Actually, so do those who work at school. And I'm surprised that the government parties, who administer this policy, have not found it worth saying anything about it, and that it is the Workers' Party, who, on death and life, want to keep the teachers down on an equal level, who are most opposed to the measures that are needed to lift Norwegian school into the future. I am somewhat surprised, but I take note of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e596	Ursula Evje has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e599	Thank you very much, President! – Strong faith and big feet can make it possible to walk on the water, but I don't think so. Weak teachers – if we do – must mean, for example: that continuing training must become an honorary word and not a microscopic budget line which over the year may appear to be at a maximum of NOK 3000 per year. learner per year years, despite the fact that we should know that the IT skills of teachers in general are incredibly poor, and that NOK 3000 is not Monner at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2133]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e618	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e627	The background to this proposal was that the Department of Administration in March 1999 decided that the Competition Authority should set aside its decision on exemption from the competition law for the inter-branch settlement agreement. This meant that from 1 April 1999 all types of books, including school books, trades and textbooks, were fixed. The Competition Authority did not want to grant exemptions from the Competition Act at the fixed price of this type of book. The Ministry stressed cultural and district policy concerns as well as securing the bookshops in the districts. The whole country, with school elephants and parents, should be guaranteed equal book prices and equal access to books. The majority in the committee, all without the Progress Party and the Right, think that keeping up a decentralised bookshop network that runs or can get books, is a central cultural policy objective. It is therefore absolutely central that exemptions from the competition law are granted at this point. That is why the majority of the Committee also rejects the proposal to abolish fixed rates in school, vocational and textbooks. I have also noticed that in the evening post on 14 February it is stated in a comment that in Denmark, as in Norway, it is the competition authorities that have been in the process of removing the fixed price arrangements for books. But if necessary, the plurality of the Danish Folketing will be in favour of a law with corresponding support schemes that can establish that book prices will be fixed. And this is our neighboring country, Denmark, a country with much simpler geography and less distances than in Norway. In general, the centre part of this line says that books are a cultural product, not an ordinary product. Specific measures are necessary to ensure, inter alia: width of publications, equal access to literature for all and publications that are culturally valuable, but perhaps economically unprofitable. This has been done through a distribution of responsibilities between private and public actors, including: the private operators, publishers and bookshops have been involved in meeting the key objectives of the industry agreement. A little knows what kind of effect it will have if school, textbooks and textbooks are taken out of the agreement. A marked reduction in bookstore network will be possible if these bookgroups are taken out, as a large part of their translation is school and textbooks. Too many district book handlers just want schoolbooks to be the basis for them to run the activity. In addition, it is important that there is a bookstore in smaller places. Cultural considerations must lead to market surveillance in the schoolbook policy. I have noted Right's comments that they are afraid that missing competition on the schoolbook market will lead to unreasonably high costs for the elephants and parents in the purchase of school books and textbooks. Then I have a feeling that the Right only thinks in very central areas of the country, where competition for this might be possible. If we mean anything to the elephants all over the country to have almost equal terms, we can't go in for this. In addition, we know that many of the students in the secondary school in these areas also have long and expensive trips. Otherwise, there must be a paradox for the Right that even before the EU there is a majority of countries that have fixed book prices. The Danish newspaper Børsen writes that France will even propose a directive on fixed book prices across the EU when it takes over the Presidency of the EU later this year. In the light of this I have said here, the Centre Party and the majority of the Committee will go in to reject the proposal to abolish fixed prices in school, vocational and textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e653	It is natural that the political parties are working to implement as much of their policies as possible in all areas. The proposal we are considering now is therefore also symptomatic in many ways of the policy of the Progress Party. The principle of free competition shall prevail over all other principles and positions. The competitive community shall be promoted, cost what it will cost. Their belief in the free play of market forces is almost religious. The consequences for society and for individuals are of secondary importance. The cynical economic mechanisms of the market shall determine most, not everything. If the consequences in this case are the closure of bookstores throughout the District of Norway, and if there is a difference both in the ability to obtain books and in the prices, the principle is not at all concerned with the Progress Party, the principle goes ahead of all other considerations. A Document No. The 8 proposals from the Progress Party on a relatively small individual case may not be the best basis for resolving the competition community. I'll nevertheless venture to express some views in it perhaps a little naive belief that the little drops can hollow out a rock. In my view, we are constantly confirmed that a reindeer-grown competitive society where everyone competes with everyone about everything and everyone does not give us the society most of us prefer to live in, a society where stability, security of work and income, good growth conditions for our children and closeness between people are the very foundation. The competitive community is becoming more and more a hunting ground where most of the people fight against everyone. The competitive community is making it increasingly difficult for us politicians to see things in context and to do the political steps needed to create an increasingly better society to live in. For the Progress Party, which has the aim of weakening the possibilities for political influence and direction of development, it is quite all right. I stress that I do not say that competition in many areas can bring benefits, even large ones. We have a lot of examples of that. On the other hand, a one-eyed cultivation of competition as a principle without regard to other conditions could do us all great harm and make society poorer, not richer in total. This applies not least in the cultural sector. If at all we are to dream of creating good and stable communities as a basis for ensuring the settlement over the whole country, as everyone except the Progress Party is concerned about, we must see things in context. The principle of absolute freedom of competition must then have clear limits. Then we need instruments that ensure the highest possible equivalence and as much equal offers across the country. Not least in the cultural sector, market forces and centralisation forces must be kept in check, not developed, as the Progress Party wishes to facilitate. It has been claimed that as many as 150 bookstores and 500 jobs would be lost in the districts if we had not had the bookstore agreement. Although parts of the country might not have become a literary wasteland, it goes without saying that the adverse effects would be great. Although this time we're just talking about school books, the effects would be noticeable. In most of our district bookstores, school boxing is the very lifeblood. For some people it's a whole 60 pst. of the turnover. We often compare with Sweden. What does it look like in this area of our closest neighbor? Well, there's hardly any local bookstore left. There are only large central bookstores that neither function culturally nor socially. Bookstores as cultural publishers, as we have in Norway, are not at all talking about it. In my view, the book-keeping agreement is one of our most important means of ensuring the circulation of books throughout our pig-grown country. Any breach of the agreement will be unfortunate and somewhat forward-looking. It is well possible that free competition can give us lower prices in the largest cities, but it would certainly lead to different prices, and then of course the highest in the districts. It will, in turn, make it more difficult to maintain a similar school offer across the country, which is a goal, at least for the Workers' Party. There can be no doubt that free prices on school books and textbooks will have many negative consequences. I have mentioned the closure of jobs and poorer availability of books in the districts. This will lead to a high distance from the supplier and greater transport costs for the recipient. The possibility of supplemental delivery through the school year is made more difficult and expensive for each school. Service to each school has to be worse than today. This applies not least to professional guidance skills, which must be purchased elsewhere than in the community environment. In addition, I am afraid that new Norwegian books will be down-prioritized because of lack of profitability. I have also noticed that the Bookstore Association in the previous round pointed out that free prices would break the school law's requirement that both books on books and new Norwegian books should be available at the same time and at the same price, and that the Council of State then agreed to that assessment. There is every reason to be satisfied with the Council of State's handling of this matter. It is a good sign that it is still possible to see things in context if there is a political will to do so. I would like that to be just as strong in other areas and in other departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e679	Living, competition, relationships in the EU – there is no way in which arguments are used in a case like this. When you think that there will be no opportunities in a technological society to buy books regardless of where you live in the country and regardless of whether individuals, the inhabitants, are required to artificially stimulate this market, I don't know if I dare to use strong words, I'm not supposed to do that, but it indicates that someone doesn't quite follow. Hasn't the Workers' Party and the Centre heard that there is an extensive online trade and that there are PCs with Internet connection in almost every home, including in the districts? What this book business agreement does is stop exploiting technological progress. In this pyramid game – because I call it actually that – how the publishers decide between themselves and the negotiators do not have the opportunity to compete, then who is it that has to pay? Yes, it's the consumer. But there's one more, and that's Kommune-Norge, who actually has to pay a disproportionately high price over its budgets because of this kind of policy. When these parties sew and complain and write up and down in all the country's newspapers that the Progress Party weakens the local economy, one can only become more upset. Because either you don't want to understand, or you don't have the ability to understand, or maybe you're in the group that's becoming more and more familiar, the 15 pst. as when they leave the public school, having great difficulty in reading and writing. The issue of the Progress Party is that this situation is unsustainable. I've been into individuals, I've been into the municipal economy. High school has the same thing in general. There aren't the states that have to pay for the school books, there are the students themselves. So in order to overcome this hopeless principle, the majority say that you have to have loan schemes for books and scholarships for each student of NOK 1000. This will cost you in the order of half a billion dollars and a billion dollars. What were the budget buddies doing? Well, it wasn't below 100 million. Did they find it difficult to grant for this purpose? Well, then I'll use Ludvig's words: It's 'fali' to raise your eyes and look around and maybe discover a world other than the one you like to see. In addition, I think it might be right to draw attention to something that was in all of our mailboxes today: Inner. O. No 48 from the Family, Culture and the Administrative Committee on Law Amendments to Law No 11 June 1993 65 on competition in takeover bids [[Competition Act]] ‘Section 6-4, first paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:In order to ensure that individual decisions are complied with in accordance with this Act, the Competition Surveillance Authority may decide that the decision to which the decision is addressed shall pay a standing instalment to the State until the situation is corrected.’; What does this really mean when the State itself repeals the Competition Authority's decisions as easily as that? I would like to take up with this the proposal that the Progress Party has made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e700	Ursula Evje has addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e703	The right has signaled several times that we want the book business agreements removed. Especially in the case of school books, it is more important to put the needs of students for access to reasonable books ahead of the requirement to protect the booksellers. As the previous speaker pointed out, we are now entering a digital age, and it is now being treated in Stortinget as an important big business message about e-commerce, for which not least the central government is concerned with getting an impact. Then it doesn't surprise me very much, but I'm still a little surprised when both the representative Aarrestad and the representative Breimo use their entire contributions to talk about district policy and that the Right among others. should not be concerned about it, without mentioning the new technology that actually makes it much easier in all parts of the country to access reasonable books. It surprises me that that aspect at all is not drawn in when we talk about this. One of the biggest successes on the Internet today is the US online bookstore Amazon.com, which actually delivers books to the world. Nearly the whole world can get exactly what book they want by shopping on the Internet. Then there are arguments that District Norway would almost be destroyed if someone were to give schoolchildren and municipalities access to reasonable textbooks. Yes, it is such a bad argument that I find it difficult to argue against it. If you look at the store structure around Norway today, it is fortunately free competition for all products sold in Norwegian shops. And is there anyone who claims that there are no video stores, is there anyone who claims that there is no way to buy a radio or a television or food in District Norway today? But in the case of books, it would lead to the closure of all bookstores if there was free competition on the price. So here we're talking about school books, and I'm assuming that both the Workers' Party and the Centre are still concerned with the local authorities' framework conditions and that the Municipality of Norway is going to be able to make good purchasing agreements, which are a lot of things to talk about in other contexts. So I'm sorry to say that, but this is out-of-date politics, and it surprises me that the department is going into politics and overrides decisions in the Competition Authority. It's disappointing, and there's little pointing forward in that kind of decision. Now we also know that the bookstores and publishers have fought a lot about the bookstore agreements. They were not renewed in areas other than school books. So it's de facto possible to compete for fiction. The majority point out in their comments that books are a cultural product, not an ordinary product. For literary books, this may be true, but in the case of school books, I think the students view their books as a work tool, not a cultural product. The majority's argument is erroneous, outdated and, in my opinion, will be a threat to both publishers and book dealers, in the light of the technological developments we are now going into. We will refer to Decision V98-103 of the Competition Authority on the conditions for exemption from the Competition Act for the contract of employment of residence, and it is unfortunate that this Decision was set aside by the Ministry of Labour and Administration by their decision of 25 March 1999. In our opinion, fixed prices and lack of competition on the school book market will lead to unreasonable costs for pupils, parents and municipalities in terms of purchases. So we want no exemption from the Competition Act in the case of school and textbooks. At the same time, however, we must bear in mind in this case that the provisions of the Administrative Act do not allow the decision of the Ministry to be reversed in this matter. I would also refer to what the previous speaker pointed out, namely that the Committee has just given its opinion on Ot.prp. No 97 for 1998-99 on amendments to the Competition Act. The right-wing party believes that it is unfortunate that the Department is an appeal body in relation to the Competition Authority's decision, and we want it to be set up and set up an independent complaint body, as we also propose in the case in point. Political transformation of the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority is found to be without exception to weaken competition and thus affect consumers and municipalities. The right-hand side prefers the suspension of the book-keeping agreement, which the parties themselves need to find out, and we suggest that the ministry loses its political opportunity to review decisions taken by the Competition Authority. As has always been said, the transformations are to the detriment of consumers and the municipalities in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e722	It is true that the new technology confronts us with some new challenges in this area too, but it cannot be right to tear down the schemes that actually work here and now. SV supports the Ministry’s decision to set aside the Competition Authority’s decision on book prices and that the Ministry has done so on the basis of both cultural policy and regional policy grounds. This case shows that the competition policy for which the Competition Authority is to be a watchdog is not always compatible with a cultural policy aimed at ensuring a diverse and prosperous art life. In a market where everything is goods, where everything in isolation is going to pay off, the innovative, lush art and cultural life that will go beyond what is here and now popular will have bad conditions. Behind the decision of the Competition Authority is the view that books are a product and only that. The reasons for the supervision are as follows: ‘each book title will constitute a differentiated product which can be considered to be substitutes to varying degrees’. In other words, books are about the same thing. I'm going to the bookstore and I'm going to buy a collection of poems and it's not in the shelves, so I like to buy a cookbook – that's the logic of this idea. There are three schemes that support the marketing of children’s and adults’s fictional literature – and this case cannot therefore be detached from discussions about fiction: it is fixed prices on books, library purchasing schemes and VAT exemptions. These schemes are an important guarantee for Norwegian as their own language and ensure readers equal access to literature irrespective of where they live. What happens if the fixed price of books, i.e. the book business agreement, falling away? Because that is, in fact, the consequence of the proposal put forward by the Progress Party. One doesn't have to be particularly psychic if one guesses that the big bookstore chains put down the price and offer discounts, especially on the easiest books and maybe even on some schoolbooks. I'm going to come up with what kind of textbooks it's going to be. It will be the big ones against the small, center towards the district bookstore. District bookshops are, in many places, a missing cultural meeting place if closed. And as many have said, there is a connection here between maintaining the district book trade and taking care of the school book trade. Furthermore, publishers will give priority to publishing the books that are expected to sell the best – that is the logic of the market. This will mean that in a market of only 4.5 million people there will be less diversity in the book world. The logic of the market is also monopolistic and greater power for the big customers and the big units. As others have said, Sweden has tried the medicine recommended by the proposers and the Competition Authority. The fixed price was lifted in 1970. The result was a significant price increase and publishers were even more dependent on a small number of large sales titles, and the closure of bookstores in the districts. Then the proposers push the students in front of them. It is well possible that students in much as central districts will get some cheaper school books by suspending the fixed price of books. But the price has to be paid by students in other parts of the country, or those who take courses that get few others to take, or those who want to book in new Norse. In the school law we have a provision that textbooks should be available at the same time and at the same price on both goals. This provision, I think, we can shoot a white stick after if someone chooses to cancel the fixed price on books. SV has been and will be concerned with the total cost of teaching materials that are now being added to each student, both to books, copies and other expenses. It's not uncommon for high school students to spend thousands of dollars per year. years to books. This threatens the equivalent training provision. The lifting of fixed prices that will make some books cheaper for some students, but more expensive for others, is not the way to go. SV is for box scholarships for high school students. It will be an important measure to ensure that everyone can afford to buy books wherever they live. We therefore support the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e741	The left believes that the book business agreement has had an important function to ensure equal access to books across the country. On the other hand, we have strong doubts as to whether this agreement is the right way to secure the book, the bookshops and the Norwegian language in the future. New forms of trade are in the process of being established, and especially for the book industry, online commerce has proved to be a success. As the representative of Greece was in, the US online bookstore Amazon.com has been a precursor that is now being imitated all over the world. In Norway, too, the book industry has been much more advanced in e-commerce. The distribution of books, both school books and the narrow literature, will no longer depend on the district book trade. On the contrary, online book trading can only increase the diversity of literature. For it is precisely the internet’s advantage that narrow customer groups can be achieved much more effectively and directly than has been possible in the past. The left is concerned that the means of preserving Norwegian language and dissemination of culture, including literature, must work with development and not against it. District bookshops have played an important cultural role and will continue to have it, but the Left believes it is wrong to transfer the costs of maintaining it to school students and school owners, as the last industry agreement actually does. The industry itself and the authorities have a challenge in finding future-oriented tools to ensure culture and literature. Evolution has gone fast and will continue to do so. The good solutions of the past can quickly work against their purpose. So now is the time to think about new things in Culture-Norway. I am therefore pleased that the Ministry of Culture has now taken the initiative to review the entire book industry. Hopefully, this will lead to innovation before this agreement expires.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e748	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e751	Students in high school and their parents are one of the big groups that buy school books. A continued industry agreement will impose an unreasonable additional cost on them in addition to all the other costs that this group has already incurred. According to the Progress Party, this is not in the interests of society. The Progress Party will also continue to work for better conditions for these. Therefore, the Progress Party feels that the book industry is very unfair and burdensome. Municipalities that are already struggling with poor finances also have large costs for the purchase of school books. With this agreement, they have to pay more than if it had been a free market. These are funds that could have gone to a general quality increase, which is sorely needed in many of our schools. Therefore, it is very unfortunate that the Competition Authority would not grant exemptions from the Competition Act at fixed prices on these types of books. It may appear that the industry agreement implies that the purchasers of school books also contribute to subsidising the production of other types of books and periodicals, as well as an approximation of the availability of everything in both bookkeeping and new Norwegian. Moreover, the progress party cannot understand why publishers are obliged to restrict their sales by granting book dealers exclusive rights to sell books to primary and secondary schools. It would be thought that at the time of the harvest, all the lots should be interested in caring for the schools and those who go there. It may seem that it is only the Progress Party – with the exception of the Right – which also has a policy in this area that takes care of the individual's interests, in this debate primarily of schools, as opposed to some other speakers who prefer to have a bookshop on each street corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e761	When I listen to the argument from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV in this case, I have a certain feeling that there is more nostalgia out there and going than well is. What you're trying to do is extend a war that should have ended in the last millennium into a new millennium, where it won't be able to win under any circumstances. What you forget is that the Norwegian book industry has gone through and undergoes dramatic changes. The most dramatic thing is that the big publishers are now at full speed to buy in on the bookseller's side, i.e. that one will no longer be faced with two parties negotiating for an agreement, it will in reality be one and the same party sitting on both sides. And then, if not before, it must start to go up to the Storting that this is some kind of commercial support that is really quite unyielding and quite meaningless, and where you shift the expenditure over partly on the municipal budgets and partly on the consumer in a way that is really quite arbitrary. That the government wants to support Norwegian science literature is okay. That is why we have a purchasing system. The desire of the state to pursue a particular gender equality policy with regard to our two official languages is also a good thing. But then the state is also willing to bear the costs of it itself, instead of overturning them to others. There must then be a form of targeted subsidisation of editions in the language that have fewer buyers. However, there is not a single sensible argument that, in order to take account of these considerations, which are political considerations, there must be a need to maintain an industry agreement that has long since run from, and on the basis of the mandate imposed by law, by the Competition Authority, on the basis of the principles on which we otherwise build in this society. Competition on anything but price is a very special form of competition. It should be high time to accept the same principles in this area that apply in all other areas, and then to take care of cultural policy and language policy considerations in other ways than through a disguised form of industrial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e772	I'm pretty familiar with the arguments of some people in this case. Competition and the market, competition and the market – it will just as well be fined on all the possible things in this country. Then we'll get it right and fine. One should not think that one was smart about how this country is composed, that this country has a topography, a geography and a scattered bustet that makes large parts of it not equal to the central areas – read the Oslo area. And then a law that only takes care of the central areas – where I think it will be a competitive model when it comes to the price – but no other imaginable places. Why don't the following questions ask themselves: What about the other countries? What about Denmark, which I mentioned in my article? What about the majority of EU countries, which will have equal value for this? Why should a believe that there is no online trade in these countries? Is there anything we just have in Norway? They have a reason to do that, and there we're going to think pretty carefully about. At the same time, I have to say that I am somewhat adjourned by the representative Ursula Evje as well, who talks about that 15 pst. of those leaving the Norwegian school have problems reading and writing. Yeah, I know. But is it because one has a bookstore in the area where they live? No, rather the opposite, I'll believe. And if one believes that one should be able to take care of both new Norwegian and book goals in this country, how can one do that and believe that someone will publish textbooks on the web in new Norwegian and bookbooks, which we decided will lead to the same price and at the same time across the whole country? Yes, there are many questions this travels.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e779	When the representative of Aarrestad was startled at me because I might draw a line of thought that put up reading and writing weakness against the preservation of the bookstore in the vicinity, I don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry, because it's a fact that bookstores aren't the places that are most frequented by the deaf. On the contrary, studies suggest that when you leave school, you are almost illiterate at the age of 50, because you do not do what you do not control. And then we're in a discussion vacuum -- as I see it -- that makes us stand on each of our mountains and shout to each other, and then there's an echo in the middle, but we don't communicate. When there is such a big desire from the majority to ensure settlement, to pursue district policies that take into account the individual – the representative Breimo spoke about the closure of 150 district bookstores, 500 jobs were at risk – it is strange that when it comes to the closure of the branch schools, which may be the most important means of maintaining a good settlement in the districts, then these parties are not narrow, because there they go forward with lies, something like the hangman himself. And that can be proved if you go into any of the decisions that are taken around the local government, at the latest in the municipality of Volda, where you have to complete five branch schools – with extremely good help from the Center Party. And if this is not something that these parties are about to take in, they stand far from believers in district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e786	The President assumes that vacuum with echo is an innovation in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e789	In his speech, Mr Aarrestad was very concerned about the lack of understanding of the needs of District Norway, among others. I, the undersigned. I believe that the representative of Aarrestad should talk to Minister Enoksen, with Minister of Industry Sponheim and others who are now spending a great deal of time and energy – deservedly enough – to ensure that children in District Norway have exactly the same opportunities as children in central areas to take advantage of modern technology. I have to say there is one joyous thing in this debate, and that is that the smallest government party, the Left, expressed a different view than the Central Party has expressed. Christian People's Party has not heard anything from, as far as I know, but it is possible that they are behind the Center Party in this matter. What is the reality of this matter is that a majority of the Storing is backward, wanting to maintain a system that may have worked, but which is no longer working. And the proof of that is that even after a lot of time and a lot of time, the book business has only renewed the book business agreement in the case of school books, because it's milk cow number. 1 to obtain income from both publishers and book dealers. However, it cannot be right that consumers in District Norway and in central areas pay an overprice for books when it is possible to obtain this in completely different ways. We're talking about the purchasing system in the municipalities. All municipalities are encouraged to join other municipalities to trade equipment for a reasonable amount of money — efficiency, ‘simplifying Norway’, which the Government is talking about. There should therefore be no form of competition in this area. A privilege scheme shall provide regional bookstores with central bookstores the possibility of keeping a fixed price and depriving consumers, whether municipal or secondary, of the possibility of buying reasonable books. In the election campaign, several parties were concerned that the school books were too expensive. Some would even give free school books in high school. Others would introduce scholarships of NOK 1000, I think even it was decided in the state budget that that would happen. So the same parties are now sitting there and saying they don't want any competition in this area for the sake of the district bookstores. I am confident that district bookstores – I know several of them – will be able to cope with competition, that they will be able to offer products in their business, most of them are also involved in modern technology, software, etc. There are no trade agreements that regulate the possibility for people to buy CD-ROMs, DVD-plates or other things. I hope it's the last time the bulk of the population contributes to cementing a system that's far too far paste.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e804	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e817	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e850	During the debate, Mr Evje, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate flexible school pay fixing. Different payable pay must be payable to skilled and requested teachers and school managers, so as to prevent resource staff leaving the profession.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e877	During the debate, Mr Evje presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend its decision of 25 March 1999 in order to maintain the Competition Authority’s decision of 30 November 1998 on a case-by-case basis on an industrial agreement for the marketing of books.’ [[V98- 103]] [[booking contract]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e897	I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-22.ana.ud40e904	At that time, the votes to 79 were corrected in favour of the Committee's position and 17 voted in favour of the Procedural Party's proposal. The setting is thus concocted.
