ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e31	The called alternate of the Telemark County, Gunn Marit Helgesen, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e39	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e44	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e49	Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen and Aud Blattmann are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the Storting meeting be interrupted after case No. 1 is finished, then set again at 1:00 p.m. 19.30 for the examination of cases No. Two and three. No objections have been raised – and it has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e72	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Lars Sponheim State Council Odd Einar Dørum State Council Hilde Frafjord Johnson The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e91	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Ministry of Industry has recently set an ambitious target of reducing the form field and the duty of duty for our sole proprietor by 25 p.m. in two years. Of course, we in the Progress Party strongly agree with that if it can be realized. Now the Minister of Industry has been at the rudder in the department for two and a half years, and nothing has happened in this area in particular. There have been some cosmetics that have also happened in the Progress Party, but I have calculated a little: in 1999 the time spent on the task of our companies was reduced by 6 per million, so if you continue at that rate, it will take 360 years to achieve the goal of reducing the form field by 25 pst. What are the new instruments that the Ministry and the Government will now put in place to achieve their ambitious objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e98	I have to first say that it's definitely more than cosmetics. Throughout the post-war period, business form stress has increased dramatically; it has almost been seen as an incurable disease. It's not anymore. During the years that this Government has been in place, we have in the first place been able to reverse a trend that has gone in the wrong direction, and for the first time, in 1999, we have seen that the form load on businesses has fallen. I agree that the decline is not very great, but when you look at the trend and development that has been over the last few years, it is an important change in time. For the first time, a complete overview of the regulatory body has also been compiled, which is comprehensive. A Statskonsult report shows that there are 12 000 regulations and regulations to be dealt with by Norwegian companies. There has been no overall overview of this as a basis for starting a reorganisation, as the Government is now doing through the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. So the government has – not least as a prerequisite for the reduction of 25 pst. in form loads, not in the number of forms, for the enterprises in two years, which I have set as an ambitious target – launching large-scale projects in the field of coordinated electronic reporting, because it will provide a revolution not least for the smallest enterprises. That's 70 pst. of the form field comes from three public bodies: the central statistical agency, the tax haven and Brønnøysund. Through the appropriations made for the current year, there is now a large programme for electronic reporting. And on the day that you can electronically deliver the ordinary business tasks into a database, public agencies can ask the database instead of having to submit the information all the time. Here's a dramatic refurbishment of the form field. In addition, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has adopted this year as a pilot scheme that all new rules and laws should be tested in advance against a panel of companies, which we are quite certain will result in the application of rules for businesses. This is definitely more than cosmetics!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e107	In the 1997 election campaign, the Council of State appointed itself as the best friend of small and medium-sized enterprises. I think until now that many of these business leaders in hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises have been quite disappointed. Nothing has really happened that has improved their tough everyday life. So to this ambitious programme with a time frame of two years: wouldn't it have been better for the government council and the ministry to be able to present concrete results prior to the 2001 Grand Prix, so that these hundreds of thousands of business leaders know if they would still vote on the government parties or choose other parties, in the light of the results achieved in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e114	Firstly, of course, I appreciate the advice of the representative Hedstrom on how my party and the other government parties will act in the election campaign in a year and a half. But I think we'll also do our own thoughts about this. I come with a considerable degree of enthusiasm to sell it significant shifts in the regime around the small businesses that have occurred during the period this government has been sitting. I want to draw up a quote that I am constantly hearing in some talks from the Secretary-General of the IT Industry Association, Per Morten Hoff, who has said that this has happened more in the Ministry of Industry in the last two years for this type of small business than in ten years earlier. And I think we can draw up many examples of important things that have happened, not least as a follow-up to the action plan for small businesses that is now in good hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e121	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e124	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. The Labour Party is in line with our international responsibility for refugees and asylum seekers in need of protection, or as for humanitarian reasons, for example. when children are involved, we need our support. However, in the practice of our refugee and asylum policies, there is also a lot of beauty and individuality. It's the government's responsibility. In a question to the Prime Minister in January, we argued from the Labour Party that Norway cannot, over time, have a refugee and asylum policy that is significantly different from other European countries or our neighbours. It was claimed, for example, that that the Norwegian authorities are the only ones in northern Europe who automatically grant a residence permit without restrictions to asylum seekers from Northern Iraq. A large number of asylum seekers who do not have a need for protection come to Norway from other countries because those who have been rejected. State Secretary Hamar said last week that Norway now wants to add Norwegian asylum policy closer to practices in the rest of Europe. Media is an important information channel, but it can also lighten the Council of State towards Stortinget a little in relation to what he wants to do, as he signals in today's newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e133	The representative and I agree that it is against Stortinget that you have to lighten the carpet. It is right that Secretary of State Hamar has signaled in various contexts that it is an influx to Norway, supposedly from Northern Iraq, but where, in order to use my words, we can see that very many of them speak fluently German, Swedish and Danish. Then we must assume that they have hardly come directly here from Saddam Hussein. That's why we've been looking at these issues for a long time, first of all, by combating the police in terms of smuggling. It was heavily cleaned up last year. But very quickly we will come up with measures that tighten up this situation. We cannot have such a situation that in practice, someone is applying to Norway for welfare reasons and does not have a need for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e141	In several contexts, we have registered from the Justice Committee and the Labour Party that the Government has had a review of practices in relation to humanitarian stay and family reunification in Norway. I would like to know from the Council of State when he might involve Stortinget in his thoughts on how that practice is, and how that practice of discretion is by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e148	I am looking for a natural opportunity to summarize the decoration that has been made – which otherwise started under the previous government of the Workers' Party – and where we have believed that it is the beauty room we have entered, but not the rule room. It is my opinion that, if rules are to be amended, the rules of the Storting must first and not be foreshadowed by the exercise of discretion. This was also a theme under the so-called babysitting issue last year. Then I also fixed this position. I have been criticized because I have not used the beauty room any more, most recently in the so-called Grace case in South Africa. I've then said that when we practice a judgment, and especially when you do an embellishment, there are more and more heartbreaking borderline cases that you get away with. But then it's my duty as the Council of State to stand upright in that situation, even if someone afterwards can disapprove me strongly for what I'm doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e155	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petter Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e158	90 pst. by all Kurds coming to the North, smuggled in by international smuggling organizations, according to the Danish police. Last year, Kripos revealed several major human smuggling operations, and there was a dramatic increase in the number of registered human smuggling cases. In 1995, there were 22, in 1997, there were 72, in 1998, there were 150, and in the first half of 1999 there were 81, so last year is likely to be a new record year. A large amount was paid to those who organized this. The starting point is several places in Europe, and it is assumed that Germany is the main starting point. My question is, what does a Norwegian person do to combat this? And how does an international work to stop or reduce this type of business?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e165	What we can do is multiple. What I signaled in the reply to the representative, Bjørnstad, who is on the Foreign Affairs Act and the practice of it, we come back very quickly. I say very quickly! As far as international matters are concerned, we have active cooperation with the police to combat human smuggling. We ourselves are part of the Budapest process in this respect. I can confirm that the cooperation with the German police stopped part of this welfare move towards Norway last year. We are following this closely, both through the international police cooperation we have, and through the experience that our police are doing. I also gather personal experiences from people who receive asylum recipients. And when I hear that a very large proportion of those who come here from Northern Iraq speak a language that does not indicate that they have learned it in language courses at home, I have a duty to act. As I have already said, the representative can expect this to happen very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e174	Kristin Krohn Devold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e177	Some of the right has been most satisfied with the signals sent out by the Dørum State Council regarding our foreign policy, is just saying that a citizen is a citizen and a villain is a villain. Our foreign policy is quadrupled. Those who meet real refugee and asylum criteria should be brought here, as all countries practice it, but the Stortinget has not authorised a course conversion in terms of the criteria for humanitarian stay. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State says that he will come back to Stortinget with it. Furthermore, when it comes to labour migration, we have said that those who want to come here and work and support themselves should have a real opportunity without sneaking into a refugee queue. With regard to the fourth group, those who are active criminals, who do not have the right to stay in Norway and who are going to be sent home, we have said that it should happen with a relatively hard hand. We have read in the newspapers that heavy criminal cosovo Albanians who have been attempted repatriation have been denied entry into their own country. And my question to Dørum is, what does he actively do to ensure that such a return occurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e182	Let me first start with the initial question that goes on strong human considerations and stay on a humanitarian basis. I feel essentially that the policy we have pursued has been supported by a large majority, but I also feel it is reasonable, as the representative Bjørnstad asked, that we come back and tell what this is like. With regard to the second issue of criminals, it is right that there are seventy people who have their case for final proceedings either in the Ministry of Justice or in the UDI. We want to send them back where they come from, namely Kosovo. We've had practical problems getting to it in the normal way. That is why I have now started working with the U.D. – it has been prepared for a long time – so that we can get a direct transport back to Kosovo. Then we're dependent on multiple relationships. We are among others Depending on a cooperation with UNMIK, that is to say the UN organisations, who are actually doing their job in Kosovo, and we may also be dependent on transit when, for example, we are doing so. must have a direct air transport operation. I am very concerned about this question, because it will be an infinite wrong norm signal if we can't get something done that everyone responds to, and that I think is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e189	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e192	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. During the travels of the Liaison Committee in the various counties, there has been a very clear message about what is important to change in the framework conditions for business. One of the things we meet from landing to landing and from big businesses and small businesses is what goes on transport costs, traffic and road investment. Transport costs are an important competitive factor for both small and large enterprises, and we meet this from land to land, not least in the Norwegian export industry – an industry that we are very dependent on. Not least in fish exports, we meet this. What is the reason why the Bondevik government, in its lifetime, has not been willing to focus on industry’s argument to increase efforts at road investment? This has been put on a minimum level all the way. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e201	I think I can express that there is no less involvement either in the central government or among the members of the government parties around the country than there is in the Right in terms of the need to invest in commercial projects. I remember from my time as rapporteur that it is largely about the gathering and involvement of rapporteurs in local road projects. It is important for businesses, and it is important for safety, etc. The reason why it has not been possible for the Government to go further in the period we have been in government since 1997 has been that we have been in a difficult situation in the Norwegian economy, where it has been necessary to make significant restrictions. It has pained most areas, but it has been necessary, among other things. to bring down interest rates, as we have experienced, and to get the fiscal governance of the country that it needs. It's been the company's basic service, and it's been job number one. I think the companies will also agree with that, if you put the desire for higher road appropriations into such a context. The government is now working on the National Transport Plan, which is, of course, an important task for the Minister of Transport of the Government, but also engages in, among others. the Minister of Economic Affairs to a large extent. In this context, I personally believe that we need to be able to emphasise the importance of road investment where we have great potential for value creation. It requires a very high framework, because we also want to take significant care of the safety aspects of road investment. We know that we can be in conflict with each other. To the extent that we prioritise non-scheduled transitions and school paths for our children and things that are so important, a rather high framework is required to also focus on value creation. But it could mean that maybe it's not primarily about getting good roads into Oslo anymore, but it's about strengthening the regions, about how they're going to work in interaction, and about how they're going to get into the markets. There is a road view that I think may be important to take into account in the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e209	Yesterday we had a demonstration here in Oslo of 150 minded politicians and businessmen from the South, who for once went on trains. As far as I can see in the newspapers today, they were received by the State Council Sponheim. And he – as it says in Today’s Business – ‘recognized them for their strong social exposure’. Can industry in the South – and for that matter any region – expect the involvement of the Council of State to go far beyond the tribute of the others who have an involvement in the context of the very national transport plan? And will it be that if the Government continues the low level of ambition it has had, is it not at least because of a low level of ambition in the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e216	Firstly, I have to say that the representative Gabrielsen knows just as well as I do that it is not possible for a government council to meet a delegation or a demonstration with a checkbook and print out cheques. It is the Storting that makes appropriations, and it is within the framework of the State budget that it is possible for a Council of State to act on economic issues. This will be a question that the Government will first have an opinion on, and that the Storting will later plan how to prioritize within the framework it will receive. But let me say that it was a strong experience for me to meet not traditional demonstrators, but a broad group of Norwegian citizens who stood up and were indignant about a situation in which many of their fellow citizens have died in traffic, and who had an involvement with the business community of their region. And because they were particularly criticized because there was poor lobbyism by professional lobbyists, as I understand it, I also expressed that I think it is honorable and real in a democracy that you dare stand up this way and go out into the open room and in daylight and tell about your commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e223	There will be follow-up questions – Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e226	One of the key prerequisites for success in the district industry is all that has to do with trade, and the Minister of Industry has recently given the district industry is the increase in diesel taxes, the introduction of road pricing, and the fact that government parties have run from the promises of increased investment in the road sector and on race protection. I see, like the previous speaker, that the Minister of Economic Affairs was the one who accepted this important delegation from South Africa, and the Council of State says, according to today's Business: ‘I thank you for being a real citizen of society and taking responsibility.’ And he says that this is an important form of lobbyism. On behalf of part of the voters in Troms, in Lyngen, where the road has been blocked much of the winter because it is too bad racial security, I would like to hear what the Council of State says to all those around the country who have received such a poor transport offer from this government that they are unable to meet with the Council of State and get praise for social inclusion and lobbyism?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e240	Now the situation is that I occasionally receive people who have an involvement in important areas also from Troms, and they are equally well received. But the representative Ludvigsen knows very well that there are tough priorities in transport, which are necessary in our country, which has the geography against it. And you don't have to go to Troms to find racial areas, I myself have the family living in a very rugged area, and who live with the uncertainty about which roads you dare to drive today – every day. So this I know very well about the body, and I know about the seriousness and the anxiety and what it does to people when you live with that fear. But in fact, we're going to continue building this country for decades to come, and we have to do that through real priorities in our democracy, where this hall has the crucial word. And that's how it'll still be in the future. No one is earned that we grant money beyond what the country's economy is able to bear, at least it will punish residents both in Troms and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e245	It will be a follow-up question to – Thore Aksel Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e248	It is good that the Council of State should come back to its promises in its national transport plan. It's like in the first question today, about the form field, where the Council of State also promised very much earlier. And now he also promises more money in the national transport plan. But we have heard such promises in the past, including: there should be a high level of investment in the road sector just before the previous elections. Now all of a sudden, the Council of State says that it has become an economy that makes it impossible to give so many road appropriations, which are good business policies. What's the difference between the economic situation that was before the election and the one that's now? Has it become so much worse with the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e255	I get a little indignant when I am added to opinions that I have not expressed. I have not stood here and promised increased appropriations in the national transport plan. I have said that this is working with the Government, and I have a personal view that we need to focus both safety and promotion on business within the priorities that are found to be sound. I am sure that no house has passed by that we have undergone a significant transformation into the Norwegian economy in the last two years, for which this government has had to sit in the driver’s seat – with the inconveniences it represents – where the Norwegian economy has a full capacity utilisation and where it is necessary to have a tight fiscal policy. There are a lot of areas going on, and it's also made it necessary for less appropriations for the transport sector to be isolated than what each of us wants, but it's been a necessity. So some of us are going to take the burden of taking a responsibility, and then we're going to accept that one can be attributed to views, and that others have an engagement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e260	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e263	My question goes to Minister of Justice Dørum. In connection with the management of lotterilova in Stortinget, a committee expressed its opinion on today's regulation for the replacement of machines. The Committee pointed out that when the limits for playing on the machines were set to 18 years, it was not the same way to replace today's automatons with what is called smarter machines, such as: has less light and longer rotations. The background was that everyone who gets the income from these machines said that the income reductions would be large with new machines, and that they would not be able to sustain their work on the voluntary humanitarian level. But what the committee is now receiving is that the department practises the old regulation as if the Stortinget had not spoken about it. And then my question is: why does the department do this, and will the Council of State clean this up in line with the Stortinge's decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e272	Of course, the Council of State will follow what Stortinget has done, but a legal state cannot be replaced by a lack of legal status when creating something new. On the other hand, there is an obligation to create something new as quickly as possible. Therefore, some of what happened a while out in January was that I received representatives of the industry. I had asked them to contact me because I wanted a dialogue and cooperation with them. And I can tell the representative that very soon, in the next few days, it goes out a letter of consultation about a lottery surveillance. There we will also mention that we will look at the automatic regulation as soon as possible in dialogue with the groups concerned, i.e. the industry and the organisations, so that we can work it through with the background of the remarks made by the Storting, and without any unnecessary waste of time. It is my intention that, when that work is done, the Storting should get it as quickly as possible. We do not deserve to have had a legal situation that has been criticised and that we must wait too long for a new legal state, for which a majority of the committee has expressed a wish. I understood that a minority in the committee would immediately repeal the old regulation, while the majority wanted to put me on a tight line of working quickly to get a new regulation in place with the background of what is at stake, as the representative Nistad also described it, namely, that an 18-year-old age must be taken as a starting point and try to secure the income as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e280	I thank the Council of State for your answer. That setting was clear, because there was a large majority asking that these automatic regulations no longer be used – the Council of State pointed out that there was a comment from the Progress Party and the Right with criticism, and that the regulation should be lifted immediately. The background to the fact that the Workers' Party wasn't in that comment was that there was a statement in the comment that we wouldn't follow up. From the Workers' Party's side, it was quite clear that we do not want these regulations to be used, and that the signal was sent out to those working in these teams and organisations, being clear in relation to the machines they could still have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e287	Yes, a government council that is facing a big deal that does not have proposals has to deal with the comments, and I perceived the Workers' Party's comments so that they did not want to create a legal vacuum while going from something they were strongly critical to, to something new. I understood that we were going to keep a very tight and fast schedule to get something new in place, and I am working that way. I felt that the representative Astrid Marie Nistad would be sure about it, and I want to repeat that I am busy getting this in place. I invited the industry to dialogue in January, because we're supposed to have a direct dialogue with them in the same way that we're supposed to have a direct dialogue with the organizations, so that we don't have to go too long from Storting's treatment until we get a change in the old regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e292	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e295	I have a question for Minister of Industry Sponheim. A few weeks ago, the Ministry of Economic Affairs granted the Smoke concession for the acquisition of RGI. In plain text, this means that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has given Smoke permission to handle Aker RGI as he pleases. He can take out extraordinary dividends, he can sell away from parts of the business. In short, he can strip the company if he wants to. The thing is that there has been a significant conflict also internally in the government, I understand, whether a person should grant a concession under the acquisition law. But despite the fact that the government attorney has made a recommendation that the liability could become too large, and despite the fact that a government also wanted to be restrictive in the first place, the ministry has granted a concession. We have a acquisition law that so far has not been used to refuse purchase, nor in this case, which is perhaps the most serious case we have seen of a purely speculative raid against an industrial company. My question to the Minister of Industry is therefore: What does the Minister of Industry think to do when we have a law that is completely useless in practice and does not have sanctions against that kind of speculative raid?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e306	Firstly, the representative Djupedal comes here with some statements that I do not know about. There is a collective government, of course, which is behind the decision made by the Government in this matter. The government has chosen, after having completed a round of detailed tests under the acquisition law of TRG’s application for purchase in Aker RGI, to approve the acquisition on terms – at my discretion, quite strict terms. I would also like to distance myself from the claim that the acquisition law has not been used. The Acquisition Act is in continuous use. This means establishing a dialogue between the companies that buy or have an ambition in relation to companies in Norway, which means that we have good arrangements in place. Very often this is done at an early stage of the acquisition process, which means that no further testing is necessary. The companies get plans in place and in other ways satisfy the ministry, so that we do not need to use the acquisition law. In some cases we go into a more detailed test that allows us to set formal conditions. It was done in this case. This is not so often done either – we have been in such a closer test 10-15 times – and I am not familiar with other conditions as we have done here: that TRG must establish a Norwegian parent company for these shares, so that they are subject to Norwegian accounting law and share law and the transparency it gives, requirements for activity in Norway, etc. I would also like to express – I think this is an opportunity to do so – that everyone is entitled to equal treatment under Norwegian law, no matter how myths and rumors might be. Smoking has been subject to approximately continuous acquisition treatment in the Ministry of Industry as long as I have been sitting there, and he has in fact kept to the plans he has submitted. Between 1996 and 1996, he has doubled the activity in Aker RGI and doubled the number of jobs. So these myths that are about this being different treatment, that there are only slaughter motives and such, are not recognized in the significant information base that the Ministry of Industry has in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e315	I noticed that the Minister of Economic Affairs did not at all affect any of the things I said. So there's still to be seen what Smoke wants to do with Aker RGI. The claim is opposed, and I hope, of course, for the employees of Aker RGI that Smoke has long-term industrial plans for the company, but everything that has so far come up suggests that the motives are slightly divided. My point is this: The Acquisition Act has never been used to refuse purchase. It is true that the acquisition law imposes conditions, but the acquisition law has no sanctioning option. If a trader who is acquired under the acquisition law does not comply with it, the Ministry of Economic Affairs does not have the opportunity to enter, other than to reopen the case and take a new acquisition. And I ask about what many people have now been concerned about after the last permission from the Ministry of Industry: Is the acquisition law good enough? Does the acquisition law have the means of power to do so? Not least representatives here in the Chamber of Government parties have been concerned that the acquisition law must be amended at this point. And my challenge to the Minister of Industry is: When we see this speculative acquisition that we have witnessed here, shouldn't the acquisition law be amended to give the ministry the means to ensure that the acquisition is observed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e322	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e325	Firstly, I would like to say that I answered the question directly, namely, how the acquisition law works, and I disagree with the claim of Djupedal that the law does not work. It does, I experience it almost every day. We have a huge number of things to deal with under the acquisition law, and I see companies changing their plans. I've also been sitting in this chair long enough to see that they actually live up to plans, and I have many examples of that. A society needs to strike a reasonable balance between regulating and limiting how to change ownership of businesses and ensuring that ownership becomes attractive also to foreign investors. It may be a foreign idea for the representative, Djupedal, but I think it is at least important that we get a lot of investors into Norway, including large foreign investors. It's important to build Norwegian industry and add skills, and then we don't have to have a national regulation that makes us scare people out. This combination I feel that the acquisition law represents in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e332	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e335	I have a question for the Council of State for Development and Human Rights. UNCTAD X, the tenth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, has just been concluded in Bangkok, and much of the debate was about a so-called overall development strategy for each country, based, inter alia, on the health, education, social least goods, a good governance and investment in agriculture and business; this, of course, in addition to the fact that developing countries are fully aware of their demands for debt relief and market access in our part of the world. In parallel with the UNCTAD Conference, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Assistance visited three African countries, followed by representatives of Norwegian business and private organisations. My question to the Council of State in the first place is this: How does the Council of State think that Norwegian business life within a comprehensive development strategy can contribute to investment in the south, and how was this done during the African journey?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e344	I am very pleased that the representative Nybakk is also drawing up UNCTAD, because it has passed silence in Norway, but has received very good coverage in the international press and has led to the problems of contrast between north and south after Seattle being reduced. So to the question from the representative Nybakk. What I'm busy communicating from the trip that the Prime Minister had, and in which I participated, was that it was very successful business seminars that were held. It was not only about exports from the Norwegian business community to the countries, which some comments from the solidarity organisations could give the impression, but it was also of considerable interest to invest and to enter into partnerships with counterparts in the countries themselves. Let me mention that it was particularly interesting that there was also the type of discussion in Mozambique, which is one of the poorest countries, and where there was a significant interest – it was a business delegation of 48 companies, which is very strong compared to what has been the case before. There was considerable interest there, but the same thing naturally applied in South Africa, and not least in Nigeria, where we also see that we can go into the petroleum management side if there is positive feedback on it on the Nigerian side, and where a Memorandum of Understanding was also signed between the Norwegian and Nigerian authorities. Thus, both in the oil and gas sectors, as well as on the investment side, a basis has now been laid in all three countries, Mozambique, South Africa and Nigeria, for cooperation with developing countries' partners and for increased investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e354	I thank you for the answer, which I think is quite positive. One of the reasons I raised this question was that we were in the Inner East. S. No 28, as the Council of State will remember, has just asked for an investigation into business as an actor in a comprehensive aid and development strategy. In today's New Year's Eve, February 11, Gro Bräcken, former director of the Society's Main Organization, but now in Redd Barna, came with a frontal attack on and a very strong criticism of just the industry's involvement in the South, based on her experience in these three African countries. She says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘And I believe that the vast majority of Norwegian companies operating abroad are far too little interested in what is outside their business world, and they often know too little about it.’ This was a claim that was very strongly attended by a representative of the Export Council, and I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e366	Yes, I have recorded this debate. It was also registered on the trip, I can assure you that. But what I'm concerned about is that reality is as diverse among business actors as it is among all the other actors in the south. You will find business actors who have very long experience and good competence, good country insight, and do an honest and very good job in the countries and have done it for a long time. And of course you'll find others with less experience, and who may not have the corresponding insight. In my opinion, it may be a little suspicious to cut everyone over a comb, as I experience that Gro Broken here does. Rather, the challenge must be to use the skills that some companies have established and to strengthen it in others. Then we must appeal to the social responsibility of business, as we have also done in a compact context, in the pilot project proposed in the Human Rights Action Plan, to take a greater and more holistic co-responsibility when you are out, and to operate with the same standards, values and standards that you do at home, be it workers' rights, child labour or other matters. There I now experience that business is taking the challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e371	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e374	A non-protectionist industrial policy is very important to enable aid countries to develop market economies and market contacts with Western countries, for example. Last year, Norway dumped agricultural products on the world market – 19 000 tonnes of prima bovine and porcine meat as low as three kronor per year. kilos. What happens in practice? Indeed, Norwegian subsidised products compete with what developing countries can contribute to building on. It is often agricultural products that are the only ones they can sell and bring in foreign currency and build on. There, Norway is very protective. We have some MUL and GSP schemes that are very limited. We give generous gifts in the $10 billion class to the third world, but we're not willing to buy the products in the areas where they have the ability to build up. What is the Government’s strategy for opening up and liberalising industrial policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e381	The government has presented what we call the strategy for industrial development in the south, which has also been welcomed, not least among the countries of the south, among heavy development actors and in the United Kingdom. There we are just trying to put in place an overall strategy for both trade and industrial development through investment from the Norwegian side, where we also look at the whole instrument. In this context, we have addressed the question raised by the representative Hedstrom, namely to contribute to increased imports into Norway from developing countries. Now I will not exaggerate the importance of the little overproduction available in the Norwegian context on the world market. I think that an actor like the EU through its export subsidies has a lot more impact on the markets of developing countries, and I hope that the next round of WTO negotiations will finally come to an end. However, it is clear that in this context the EU is helping to compete with products from developing countries. So I want to draw attention to one thing, and that is that in very many of these countries it is actually necessary to contribute aid to bring about economic development, which in turn can lead to export.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e393	I have a question to the Dørum State Council. It's true that some and everyone are both frightened and shocked by the wave of ransack in the country, and especially in the Oslo area. Violence and all kinds of use of weapons are increasing, especially at the edge of the street, which is increasing most, where young criminals are generating fear among younger and older people, who are most vulnerable to street violence. Teenagers can commit about 100 raids before they are targeted after having committed violence and threats. Most people who are apprehended are of foreign origin, which is particularly alarming. A central key must be the demarcation of criminal acts against innocent people who travel on the streets. My question is: is there any special initiative the Minister of Justice can take on the table – for example, I am thinking of lowering the criminal lavalry, or, for the sake of the case of whose criminal acts are committed by non-Norwegian foreigners, of sending them out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e400	Now, I suppose a Minister of Justice should not beat the table, but make sure that it is respect for law and order. The wave mentioned by the representative is two-fold. There is a wave that is going on among adults, which is very serious, and which the police are making great efforts to solve, and which I also have deep concerns about being able to relate to organized forms of crime. The main issue of the representative was violence by the younger ones, which appeared in police statistics at the turn of the year. There has been very broad cooperation between the Oslo Police District, the Oslo Municipality and the Ministry of Justice to look at the issue, both in the case of young people above and below the criminal lavalry, which we do not intend to change. With regard to youth over the criminal detainee, we are prepared to go in and use criminal custody in freedom in a far more active way than we have now, to set limits. I am very pleased with what the Minister of Church, Education and Research has done about the possibility of removing bullying from the community to a school. When it comes to violence done by the youngest, and which is very serious, because we can fear that older groups of immigrant gangs are recruiting the youngest as a kind of criminal mercenary, I will, among other things, in the near future. Have a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo to look at this. And without going into the children's and family minister's area, I'm pretty sure we have to be willing to think again about how to set limits for children who have simply lost any respect for adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e413	I noticed that the Council of State would not lower the criminal lavalier. It is usually armed youth and children who are today the threat in the streets of the capital. Many of the gangsters, according to police statistics, are immigrants with violent tendencies and behaviors, and most often give many parents the bluff that their children rule the streets with terror. The police and the victims meet disrespectfully, and in court, the accomplices and judges meet mocking teenagers without respect for law and law. All of this leads to juvenile delinquency now coming out of control. This negative development has grown at the same time as the amount of immigrants coming to our country, which in my opinion is a consequence of the government's reckless immigration policy and criminal policy. I have a final question to the Council of State: does the Government want to go on its own and analyse the consequences of its policies both on the immigration side and on the criminal policy side?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e420	It is well known that the Progress Party and the Government disagree on the general guidelines of immigration policy. But let me establish the following: a citizen is a citizen, and a criminal is a criminal regardless of color and background, but children are children, and we have a duty to respond to children who have lost respect for adults, but then we also have to look at how we should do it. And it's not like this happens pretty much in central streets, it can happen in different parts of the city. The number that Stang mentions is worrying enough – it's 200-300 – but there's no need to generalise and say that it's all about immigrant youth. I don't think parents often give the scam, but I think many parents don't have the power to run out of being parents. Personally, I have had a meeting with the chief police officer of Oslo and the head of the City Council of Oslo in a mosque, the largest mosque in Oslo. We entered into an agreement that per On 1 May of this year, the congregation was to find out all the speechless women, i.e. women in their non-Norwegian community, so that they received a training programme for it. And they were going to intervene directly in a situation where those who grew up saw an 11-, 12-, 13- or 14-year-old being recruited as a criminal lodger by the elderly. They promised me this, and the representative can be absolutely sure that I will remember the promise on 1 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e427	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e431	A kind of association that really does something to prevent young people from becoming juvenile criminals is all our voluntary associations – it's the swimming clubs, it's the sports clubs, and it's the humanitarian organizations. But these also have to have money to survive, they have to have funding. And the lottery law that Stortinget sent back before Christmas was sent back because it was too tight in relation to the framework conditions for these very associations. What Stortinget unanimously said in the setting was: ‘The Committee considers that there is no need to impose requirements on the regulations requiring the replacement of the machines or reducing revenue for the organisations.’ This means that the signals that have gone from the ministry to the organisations that the last regulation applies have caused very great concern, and it has caused concern about the future revenues of these organisations. I'll ask the Council of State to confirm that either we get a new regulation quickly, or the old regulation can apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e441	As far as the President understands, this is an issue that is already heavily affected earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e444	However, I realized that the representative Krohn Devold tried to ask me a question, so I would like to address it. I repeat what I said to the representative Astrid Marie Nistad. I understand that the committee wants us to have a regulation that is different from the one we now have. I can't cancel a regulation that exists, because then I create a legal vacuum, but I have a duty to make sure that we get a new regulation quickly, so that there is no practically difficult situation for different organisations. That is what I said in the reply to the representative Nistad. I will now also have the chance to correct myself. I think I got hurt to say that I met ‘representatives’ for the industry. I met one central representative of the industry, and I invited you to work together, just to get a quick solution to what the representative Krohn Devold is addressing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e451	My first question had a nuance difference in relation to the dialogue with Astrid Marie Nistad. Because the Council of State in its reply to Nistad said there was a majority and a minority in the committee, I referred to what the entire committee said on that point. But I have a follow-up question, and it goes on the number of vending machines. The Committee also stated in its position that with the roof that was introduced, 33 000-35000 vending machines were added. It is now apparent from meetings between the Ministry and some non-governmental organisations that the Ministry has stated that there is a ceiling of 28 000 vending machines in force. In this case, there is a significant degree of convergence with the Committee's signals. Therefore, one of the vending machines’ rights holders has addressed this with the Civil Ombudsman, who in a letter this month has said that the department’s way of interpreting access to machines is not good, it should be reconsidered. I will hand over the letter to the Minister afterwards, but will ask him to confirm that those who have access to the machines will be allowed to do so, and that not too restrictive a roof will apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e458	I understood the debate this way when the Lottery Act was being discussed before Christmas, that it was keeping to the number that was then known to the Committee. And I have no reason to operate with any other number than that, and I haven't changed my mind on that question, of course. With regard to the purely legal situation for which a machine may be equipped, the current regulation shall apply until it is replaced by a new one. But I have said in response to the representative, Astrid Marie Nistad, and earlier in reply to the representative, Mr Devold, that it is a point that it does not take long before it comes. And then I've said that we want a close cooperation with the industry and the organizations to get a regulation based on the comments the committee has written – all the comments the committee has written.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e465	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e468	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Economic Affairs has, of course, been involved in the Minister of Transport's rulings here earlier today, and this may also be tangling in the same area. We are now dealing here in Stortinget with a big message about electronic commerce, a message that goes into the sequence of now-known analyses of the migration needs that we are in, driving forward new technologies, new products, new markets and the internationalisation of trade and economics. We're familiar with a number that researchers have now mentioned several times, that we need to create 800,000 new jobs within a 20-year period. Electronic commerce will help change the character of parts of the world of work. There will be less need for first-line services in shops, but more needs in logistics and in goods transport. An action plan for action and action in this area is missing. What responsibility does the Minister of Industry take to stimulate new growth and better conditions in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e477	Let me first say that the big message that is now being discussed for a year in the Committee in which Rudihagen sits is a big message that draws up completely new lines in many ways, even when we measure it against what kind of work is being done in this area in other countries. Now, during this week, a letter will come from me to the Committee that brings in new elements that may be necessary in an area where conditions change as quickly as they do – bringing in new issues that I think are relevant to the Committee before finishing this work, because it has been so long since. Let me stress that very many of the proposals and activities involved in this, to put in place the legal instruments around it to get safer electronic commerce and facilitate the conditions for this to take off, we are already in the process. We have our own forum working under the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the field of electronic commerce, led by an important Internet business manager from Rogaland named Rana, who is well-running, who has announced that he will shortly be presenting an action plan on how Norway will take some rapid steps to increase the activity of electronic commerce. We are among the absolutely best in the world in terms of penetration or the number of PCs and Internet connections, but we have something unsolved in putting this into use, among other things. electronic commerce and business. We're very focused on trade, and on consumers' trade, maybe. We think we're going to focus a lot more on what opportunities there are to create a lot of small businesses everywhere, because distance doesn't matter. It gives us enormous nutritional potential, which I think we should see and be able to enjoy in a long-range country like ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e484	My point was the drop in the number of jobs in one area and the question of incentives to replace them in other areas, which there is likely to be a need, and also to facilitate transport and logistics, so that it is possible to increase the level of electronic commerce. The state is with a owned company, Posten, which has the best distribution device that can be thought of. And the Post has been struggling for a long time with a reduction in the number of post offices and activities. Now one might think that the Post went against golden times just because of the electronic trade. And my question is: What does the Minister of Industry do to prepare the Post to meet this development, both to help create new growth in the Post – new business development there – and to facilitate an increase in e-commerce?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e491	The responsibility of the Minister of Industry here is to ensure that we have increased activity and that electronic commerce and business activities are used in all parts of the country. The potential for it is present. That's why the government is now working intensively with an overall programme on how to quickly get the broadband development that the country needs, based on the activity of the many companies involved in this and that are currently investing heavily. I am absolutely sure that the potential that lies in this area, and the explosive that we actually expect in electronic commerce and business, the closest not only to the years, but months – we have expectations of a significant increase only during the year 2000 – will provide a business opportunity that the Post will exploit. And I am sure that my good colleague, the Minister of Transport, who is responsible for the Post, will ensure that the Post is also equipped to take advantage of these opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e498	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e502	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. It concerns safety on board passenger boats. After the “Sleipner” accident, it has occurred one day that a number of passenger boats sail around the Norwegian coast without adequately tested equipment. As a result, a circular has been drawn up to replace all life jackets. Can the Council of State explain what he has done, except for the life jackets, to ensure that passenger boats operating in Norwegian waters have the necessary equipment tested and tested in the conditions for which it is intended?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e509	I can assure the representative of Bastesen that maritime safety is the focus of the Ministry of Industry and the Directorate of Maritime Affairs. After such tragic accidents as what we have behind us in the near past, it is of course that this takes a lot of our time and attention. Now we need the respect both for those affected by the accident and for the company affected by the accident, that we should await the conclusion of the large commission that is at work and that will come after the summer, and not draw any preliminary conclusions in too many areas. But in some areas it has been necessary to draw some preliminary conclusions. There was also a background for the Maritime Directorate immediately after this tragic “Sleipner” accident, setting up its own work committee to look at what we need to do in the very short term in order to improve maritime safety with the experience that was then done, without prejudging the important work that is going on in the Commission. The report came on 12 January of this year with a set of different measures and recommendations for improvements to the shipping companies operating the high-speed craft. There are proposals to require existing speedboats to also comply with international regulations, i.e. IMO rules. Usually they only apply to new speedboats that are coming, but they are also valid for those speedboats that are already in operation. Then some rules have been put in place as a direct consequence of this – among other things. the existence of life jackets with lights and step straps – applicable to passenger ships in general and not only to speedboats. We have seen this as a necessary consequence, and it also meant that we chose to go beyond our commitments in the EEA to approve life jackets approved in another country. We set it aside, notified English and Italian government powers about it and have made our own rules because here we saw that there were life jackets that were not good enough – they were approved in other countries, so we had to automatically approve them in Norway under the EEA rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e516	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I did not attach myself very much to the accident with the "Sleipner", but I said on a general basis that there are a number of passenger boats, including ferries, that have been sailing around for many years without equipment that has been tested enough. Today, ferries have evacuation systems tested at quays in peak weather, vacated seas, with football and youth. The systems have not been tested under the conditions that may arise if a disaster occurs. My question is – I repeat: What does the Council of State intend to do to ensure that the equipment is tested so that people can feel the need for security? I want to entrust the Council of State with another thing: the Maritime Directorate is responsible for this, and it is obvious after the “Sleipner” accident – I have to pull it in again – when not even the life-rafts triggered so that people could get a chance to get on board a fleet, that things indicate that the Maritime Directorate has not done their job. So I have two questions for the Council of State. This concerns both the trust in the Maritime Directorate, which must now be weakened, and what one intends to do to get the equipment in general capable of being used and trusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e525	First of all, I must stress that it is difficult for me to deal with some of the claims that the representative had to make. It is the task of the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs to assess ongoing safety conditions, and so do they – their competence is to define safety crews and the rules to be applied. And it is consistent with the safety thinking in Norway and in all other countries, both in maritime and other areas, that companies must be more responsible for having safety systems. It is no longer possible to rely solely on the responsibilities of individual people and the captain; it is necessary to ensure that the captain of ships is also put into security systems which prevent human error from being possible. This security thinking has worked very hard on the Maritime Directorate, which is why I believe that security is as well taken care of as it is possible by the authorities. As far as the Maritime Directorate is concerned, there have been very many views and a lot of publicity. I want to show that we have a commission working, and I think we should wait for it when it comes to the 'Sleipner' accident.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e532	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e535	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. The Labour Party takes the fight against the so-called repeat crime seriously. Often it is a gain crime committed by a limited number of persons, to the great dismay and disadvantage of the ordinary citizen. Police play an important and crucial role in stopping these activities. That's why I'm worried when the editor of the police officers' magazine is moving out and making some statements, where he among other things. says that the number of unsolved cases on criminals often makes us guess. Many of the vancriminals should have been stopped for the longest time. Often it happens that politicians, who have many unsolved cases against hyperactive addicts, are not interested in stopping the criminal activity of criminals. How do the Councils react to these opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e546	I believe that he is using his right to express himself and is reporting freshly on matters on which the Justice Committee and the Council of State are fully in agreement, namely that more efficiency can be achieved by the police as a whole. Here the Justice Committee asked us quite timely – and as I said I agreed with them – to look at bottlenecks in different police districts. Talking directly about how to do the best possible job in the police department is part of the pressure that is now propagating with open speech in the main hall, etc. My impression is that Norwegian police officers can tolerate direct speech, and if they think it's unreasonable, they'll take it back. But the essence of this is, of course, that since I became Minister of Justice, I have thought that with good pay and increased wages – which have been fought in a fair manner in the police – with new methods of investigation and with a broad support in the Stortinget and opinion, there is also a right to demand what is left for this. I said earlier on questions here in the hall that there may often be questions about how inspired you are to lead. It is a theme that the Justice Committee, among other things, I commented when we raised the matter about the police directorate. So I perceive that this is going to be a debate that both the representative Rasmussen and I are interested in and agree that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e555	I thank you for your answer. I'm aware that the picture is much more nuanced than what I actually expressed in the introduction, it was an opinion. And in fact, there is also a lot of good police work around the various police districts of the country. I think the example from Majorstua Police Station in Oslo is very good. There they have had a project where one, in cooperation with those affected by the type of criminal activity, has achieved a strong reduction in the number of burglaries in apartments, villas and cars. The experience now wants you to transfer to other parts of Oslo. Instead of starting new projects based on the same thing, we have experiences that are so good that they should already be deployed so that they can also be implemented in the rest of Police Norway, especially in the districts mentioned in the first question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e562	We know that there are many good examples in Police Norway. One of them is what the representative said, on Majorstua. We can, for example: also go to Hordaland police district, which has a low crew, but a very high clearance rate. And we're going to the police chief's meeting that comes to spring, look at just the effectiveness of the criminal case chain, the pressure on the good examples. The representative knows that one of my most important arguments for getting a police directorate, and to which I got broad support in the Stortinget, is to have such an effective office management that without hesitation you take the good examples into use and make it a good work culture across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e567	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e573	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that she should be informed, on the basis of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 terms have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the regulatory time of the morning meeting. There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 10 and 12 from the representatives of Reidun Gravdahl and Bjørn Hernæs, respectively, to the Minister for Defence, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, by Mr Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 13, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 21, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. Questions 25 and 28, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister of Social Affairs and Health respectively, have been withdrawn. Question 30, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him. Questions 35 and 36, from the representatives Jan Johnsen and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Culture, who has been removed. Questions 37 and 38, from the representatives Synnøve Konglevoll and Jan Simonsen respectively to the Minister for Fisheries, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e601	In addition to the overview, questions 9 from Bjørn Hernæs to the Minister for Agriculture have to be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e607	‘Norwegian Hydro has planned the construction of a aluminium melting plant in Reydarfjördur, Iceland, in connection with the construction of a large hydroelectric plant in the Icelandic East, one of Europe’s largest unspoiled wilderness strips. The project has triggered broad popular protests in Iceland. Will the Council of State contribute to the initiation of an investigation into the environmental impact assessment prior to the start of the project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e614	As regards the hydropower plant in the Fløtdalsvirkjun in East Iceland, I have been informed that this was opened for expansion early in the 1980s, following the decision of the Icelandic Everything. Development permits were granted by the Icelandic Government in 1991. Due to the fact that a planned industrial establishment did not take place at the time, it was not appropriate to start the development at that time. In 1993, the Icelandic Environmental Impact Assessment Act was adopted. The law was not given retroactive effect. In the extension case, the Icelandic Government has argued that the extension permit granted in 1991 is not limited in time and therefore the Environmental Impact Assessment Act will not apply to this project. The developer Landsvirkjun published a report on the environmental impact of the project in autumn 1999. The question of expansion has again been addressed by the Icelandic Everything. On 22 December 1999 it was decided to continue the plans for the construction of the hydropower plant. The minority claim that the project first had to be submitted to a new environmental impact assessment under the 1993 Act was therefore rejected at the same time. It is my opinion that the issue of the expansion of this hydropower plant is an Icelandic matter. The responsibility for handling the case lies with Everything and the Icelandic authorities. Norwegian authorities deal with their decisions. Norwegian Hydro assesses participation in a projected aluminium works in East Iceland to be supplied with energy according to plans, inter alia. from the hydroelectric power plant of the River River. The aluminium mill is subject to the current Icelandic Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Hydro discloses that the company is still investigating the project and that a decision on the exposure is expected within the summer. The question of Hydro's participation in the aluminium works is a commercial matter. In line with the general principles for the management of the State's shares in Norwegian Hydro ASA to which the Stortinget has joined, it will be up to Hydro's board and administration to decide on this. I assume that Norsk Hydro, if the company decides to participate in the project in question, takes due account of the environment by respecting and complying with the environmental requirements of the Icelandic authorities at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e630	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that the matter is formally a matter of an Icelandic matter in which the Norwegian authorities cannot interfere. The question is more about what responsibility – perhaps we are to say moral responsibility – that lies with both Norwegian authorities and Norwegian companies in terms of foreign involvement. Should we try to deal with this matter so that it will be dealt with as we would have dealt with it ourselves if it had been a development in a Norwegian area of pristine nature? Could it not then be an idea for the Council of State to contact and request Norwegian Hydro to set aside funds for a complete environmental analysis which also includes the hydropower part of the project, as the company would have done if they had done something similar in Norway? I think it is important to find out that we are talking about an enormous area that will be affected by the expansion of hydropower. These are 14,000 km2 and 15 beautiful waterfalls, and the biodiversity of the huge river delta is very rich. And as we are well aware of the government's love for Hardangervida, I would like to ask if he does not have a certain understanding of the intense commitment in Iceland to taking care of an unspoiled area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e639	The representative is exceptionally right that I am concerned about and happy in pristine nature. It would have been tempting to stand here and wonder what position I would have had in this as to what I understand controversial questions in Iceland, whether I had been an Icelandic and an Icelandic representative in the Icelandic Everything. I think the probability that I had stood here on the barricades and fought for pristine nature would have been very great. But I am not an Icelandic and not a representative of the Icelandic Everything. I am a Norwegian State Council that has to deal with some very clear formal rules. One of them is despite all the fact that Iceland is a sovereign state, and it is the Icelandic democratic system that makes its decisions on Iceland, and so do they on these issues. In the case of Norwegian companies, I have expectations that they will behave the way we want them to behave at home. This means, first of all, that they relate to the laws and regulations and decisions taken by the authorities of the countries to which they relate, but that they also include standards in addition to this. And I also expect Norsk Hydro to do as far as a possible aluminium project in Iceland is concerned, which has not yet been taken a stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e649	I will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The UN Humanitarian Aid Coordinator for Iraq has recently given up its protests against the sanctions. The same thing happened to his predecessors. Earlier this year, von Sponeck stated that the sanctions should be lifted and that the sanctions against Iraq are ‘a real humanitarian tragedy’. According to former U.S. Justice Minister Ramsey Clark, the war and sanctions have killed 1.5 million. Iraqis since 1990. The WHO and UNICEF also report the cruel results. Is the Government still committed to its support for the sanctions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e658	Saddam Hussein is a dictator who in a decade led his people into two attack wars. The Iraqi military has destroyed large agricultural areas as part of a targeted attack on its own population. Although precise figures are difficult to provide, it is estimated that 5,000 people died immediately after one of the authorities attacked cities in Northern Iraq in 1988. Since the introduction of the sanctions, Iraq has been countering all efforts by the United Nations to protect the civilian population from the effects of the coercive measures. Food and medicine were exempt from the sanctions from the first day. From the very beginning, the Iraqi government has made the work of humanitarian organisations difficult. The supply of oil for the food programme presented in 1991 could not be implemented until 1996 because Iraq did not accept the conditions imposed. Large sums have gone to military research programmes and the construction of presidential palaces. The UN's own representatives have stressed that the work on oil for the food system has not been sufficiently followed up by Iraq. Necessary products for vulnerable groups are excluded from order lists, while health-related accidents and animal diet profiles are encouraged, inter alia. for newborns. Food and medicine have been stored unnecessarily for a long time. One cannot ignore the fact that Iraq has made a significant contribution to the difficult humanitarian situation in order to exploit it as a means of exerting pressure on the international community in order to abolish the sanctions. I think it is necessary to remember these relationships. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that I share the concern about the humanitarian situation in Iraq. Despite the fact that oil for the food regime has helped to improve the situation during the period of operation, there is cause for concern about the situation of the civilian population. During the very difficult negotiations which took place in the 1999 UN Security Council, which on 17 December last led to the adoption of Security Council Resolution No. 1284, a large majority of Member States felt that oil for food was not working well enough. Furthermore, it was pointed out that Iraq had still not met the UN's demand for disarmament. Therefore, the resolution adopted continues the weapons inspections and sanctions. At the same time, significant changes have been made in oil for the food regime. A balance has been sought that contributes to improvements in humanitarian work, while allowing control of the use of the resources generated by oil sales. From the Norwegian side, we have repeatedly underlined the importance of improving the humanitarian situation in the continuing work of the United Nations with Iraq. The changes in oil for the food system are in the process of being implemented. It is my hope that they will lead to improvements in the humanitarian situation in Iraq. However, this is still dependent on the cooperation of the Iraqi authorities. From the Norwegian side, considerable humanitarian aid was given to Iraq after the Gulf War. Since then, support to Iraq has been largely maintained at a high level, and last year assistance was 33 million. kr. Among other things, we have funds allocated for the purchase of special industries, for the rehabilitation of water supply, mine clearance and food aid. We are in close contact with environments and organisations that can provide information on the situation in Iraq and on how best to assist. The Security Council has indicated that if Iraq cooperates with the new inspection body and the IAEA over a period of 120 days, it will be willing to consider a suspension and possibly subsequently lift the sanctions. It is my hope that Iraq will take advantage of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e681	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although I think it was a little thin in relation to a kind of fatigue strategy towards the regime in Iraq. The regime is, of course, the main problem from the west, but the disaster affects ordinary people, and that is my point. It's not just the regime that has got people around the world to say that the sanctions policy is totally unsuccessful. It's not that long since Hans von Sponeck went off and called what happened there, a human tragedy. The next day, he also received a follow-up from the head of the World Food Programme in Iraq. It has to more than just wait. So my question is whether you shouldn't be doing something more active than just waiting and waiting, because that's what the Council of State really said last time, that you're trying a little bit ahead in the Security Council, but that's not happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e686	Now it is the representative's privilege to ask and my duty to answer. But it is right, as the representative points out, that it is not easy to give a good answer on how to deal with Iraq and the situation there. However, I will reject the fact that we are just sitting and waiting. I think the fact that we contributed 33 million in 1999. kr, that we have been actively involved in the UN environment in New York to look at how to change the sanctions so that more humanitarian concerns are taken care of, and the fact that we have also been actively working to get political contacts through voluntary organisations into Iraq to see what can be done to support positive groups shows that we are trying to do something. But once again, we're facing a regime, something like what we have in Yugoslavia, which is not willing to cooperate with the international community, and then it's very difficult to come up with an improved situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e694	I have the following questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘More Kosovar Albanians who have committed serious crimes in Norway and have been expelled are still in Norway because the Yugoslav authorities refuse to issue passports. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs work to make an absolute claim before an assessment can be made of the lifting of the sanctions against Yugoslavia, that all Yugoslav nationals expelled from other countries are allowed to return to Yugoslavia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e703	The implementation of expulsion decisions for Yugoslav citizens of Kosovo has been difficult for a number of years. Very few travel back voluntarily, and many do not have travel documents. It has not been possible for several years to be issued travel documents for expelled Yugoslav nationals of Kosovo from the Yugoslav Embassy in Oslo. The Norwegian authorities launched negotiations with the Yugoslav authorities in 1996 on a bilateral agreement to withdraw their own citizens. Due to the increased tension in Kosovo, it was never appropriate to sign the negotiated return agreement. The Yugoslav authorities have not been requested to issue travel documents for deportees in the period following the initiation of air operations against Yugoslavia by NATO in March 1999. Return agreements with other countries were also suspended from Yugoslavia after the start of the air campaign. Our actions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are part of a common Euroatlantic policy against the Milosevic regime. The aim of the measures is to maintain an international pressure against the regime to encourage democratisation and respect for human rights and respect for international obligations. They are not intended as sanctions against the Serbian civilian population in general. Norwegian sanctions policies have traditionally been limited to the implementation of binding decisions by the UN Security Council, thus representing one of the few exceptions. The measures were implemented as part of a common international pressure against the Milosevic regime and form part of a comprehensive package of criminal measures in accordance with measures adopted by the EU and the United States. Penalties constitute a multilateral rather than a bilateral instrument. There are also several countries that refuse to receive expelled citizens from Norway. However, this is not part of the justification for the criminal measures against Yugoslavia. The measures against the Milosevic regime are designed to contribute to democratisation and a regime shift in the long term. This means that, in consultation with our allies, we will adapt the measures to changing political circumstances in Yugoslavia. A democratic regime in Belgrade will be the best condition for us to be able to cooperate gradually with the Yugoslav authorities, among others. on the return of Yugoslav citizens expelled from Norway. I would also like to point out that, in reply to questions later today, the Minister of Justice will explain further the foreign policy situation in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e721	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘A person in Hurum has been granted a concession for the acquisition of agricultural property of 14 tenants with a compulsory residence and employment obligation. Due to the necessary investments, operations in the first two years have experienced a significant deficit. The Eligibility Office does not accept the operation as an industry and will not deduct deficits in industry. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the tax assessment does not focus on a public imposition on agriculturally sound operations?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e730	Under the Tax Act, it is a condition for deducting deficits that operations can be defined as industry or activity. This implies the exercise of an activity for the account of the taxpayer and the risk of a certain amount and duration. Furthermore, it is a condition that the activity must be objectively suitable for making a profit — if not the year of the equation, so in any case in the longer term. In determining whether the above-mentioned conditions of deduction have been met, the equality authorities must make a concrete assessment of the activities actually carried out. Public requirements that are met will be included in this assessment. The suitability of an activity to generate real profits must be assessed in the light of a few years of operation. Equation practices have suggested that the start-up of agricultural holdings can normally be assessed over a period of four to five years. Only after such a period of time can it normally be reasonably ascertained whether or not the operation is capable of carrying out a profit. The specific matter would not be appropriate for me to go into. In the case of an EQU or County Tax Office, it is possible to examine cases of disagreement between the taxpayer and the EQU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e743	I thank you for your answer. I have a comment on the part that goes for a period of four to five years, because in this specific case it is decided after two years. Otherwise, the answer was something that was expected. It is difficult for ordinary people to understand that there is no coherence in what public authorities do. Or to quote it: ‘It’s hard to understand that the right hand doesn’t know what the left hand is doing. They have, after all, the same employer. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm the following: when the Equation Office refuses to accept the operation of this small use as an industry, future revenues from the same operation will also be tax-free.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e754	Of course, I can't give you any confirmation. It'll be a interference in the specific case. Because, as I said at the end of my first answer, I do not see it appropriate to interfere with the specific matter. But I explained what demands are being made, and what is normal practice in assessing whether this is industry, and whether you can go with profit or not. So the normal thing is to evaluate this over a four-five-year period. So from this point of view, the taxpayer should consider whether it is appropriate to complain, because there is a right to apply to decisions at the Equation Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e762	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘In the context of the development of new rules on the use of simplified presentation in less serious cases of the illegal importation of alcohol, the rate for smuggling 1 litre of spirits is now $300, but if one smuggles a box of beer, the fine is $1900. Both cases correspond approximately to the same tax avoidance. The Council of State agrees that these rates are unreasonable, as both cases of illegal imports amount to approximately 50 %. the same fee exemption?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e771	The provisions on simplified presentation in the case of minor cases of illegal imports which entered into force on 1 December 1999 replaced a corresponding regulation of 1983. In the previous regulation alcoholic beverages were divided into spirits and wine respectively. The illegal importation of beer was covered by the provision of ‘other goods’, which resulted in relatively low fines both in relation to the tax evasion and in relation to the fines for the other types of alcoholic beverages. Combined with low purchase prices abroad, the reaction was disproportionately mild when beer was imported illegally. In the new regulation on simplified presentation, the fines have been adjusted in line with the price increase. The rates were not adjusted for any changes in the level of fees charged by the different product groups. Alcoholic beverages are further classified according to their alcoholic strength. This means that beer is now included in the group of alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength by volume of 2,5 to 22 % vol. In the context of the adoption of the Regulation, it was assessed to create a separate product group for beer with greater differences in quantities between the ranges than that resulting from the current division. However, this would result in an unintended discrimination between beer and other low-alcohol alcoholic beverages, such as alcohol. pages. I agree that treating beer equally with strong and weak wine triggers a relatively high fine rate in relation to the tax evasion. At the same time as this new regulation was adopted, I therefore asked the Customs and Tax Directorate to prepare proposals for a further breakdown based on alcoholic strength. I have now received the amendment from the directorate. The Ministry of Finance will, at the hearing, submit a proposal to amend product groups and fines by, inter alia, illegal importation of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e782	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I look forward to seeing the new regulations on the simplified submissions. Because it's pretty strange that you can bring with you four liters of spirits for the same price, the same rate of fine as one box of beer. I also thought the government parties were concerned that the weak drinks of alcohol are less harmful than the strong drinks of alcohol, such as alcohol. spirits. At least I'm looking forward to the new rates coming, because there's a lot of unfairness in terms of the rates available. In this connection, I wonder whether the Council of State can give an approximate indication of when this will come into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e787	It is clear from the end of my first answer that I agree that there is an unfair discrimination in beer and other alcoholic beverages, with which we have to do something. As I have now received a proposal from the Customs and Charges Directorate for a different breakdown, a further breakdown, this will be sent to the hearing as soon as possible. Then it's a normal deadline for consultation. I cannot specify the exact date for when the new regulations will be laid down, but I would expect that during the spring session at least we could have come relatively far with that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e795	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘26. A regulation on the simplified calculation of customs duties and charges for luggage was amended on August 1998 to provide for a significant increase in these charges in the case of alcohol and tobacco. The fees for cigarettes increased from NOK 140 to NOK 380 per year. Carton. One litre of spirits increased from NOK 260 to NOK 340. How have these increases in fees been applied in relation to the country’s revenue in this area and has the scheme resulted in fewer persons being exposed in attempts to bring something in excess of the free quota?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e804	Goods carried by travellers to Norway in addition to the duty-free quota shall be initially tolled in the usual manner. However, for smaller quantities of alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and chocolate and sugar products, a simplified system of charging has been established. The scheme is intended to facilitate the customs clearance procedure for travellers and Customs. The rates are set out in the regulation on the simplified treatment of customs duties and charges for luggage. When the scheme was introduced in 1951, it was a prerequisite that the level of the rates should correspond approximately to the levy imposed on similar goods when purchased in Norway. The scheme is not intended to confer a tax advantage on travellers in excess of what results from the duty-free quota. When the regulation was amended in 1998, the rates had not been adjusted since 1990. In addition to the general increase in prices, there had been a relatively large increase in fees in Norway for these product types during the period. Therefore, the rates had been considerably lower than that of domestic purchases, and on this basis they were adjusted in line with the intention of the scheme. The rate change was not implemented to increase revenue to the treasury or to reduce illegal imports of these types of goods. I do not have available statistics on the number of people who use the simplified treatment of customs duties and charges for luggage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e815	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I wonder if the Council of State says that there are no statistics. It may not be a big problem to look at the income side in recent years whether there has been a trend in customs clearance of these goods. I just have to say that I wonder when the Council of State claims it, because that statistic must be able to read the accounts. I also ask questions about the price you have to pay. Let's have a bottle of beer on which you have a certain fee in Norway. But if you take this from abroad, you have to pay 11 per cent. bottle, i.e. per unit 0.35 litres, according to the rates applicable. I believe at least that the new prices have resulted in increased smuggling and that the revenue of the state has been significantly reduced. I hope the Council of State will go further into these figures and that we can confirm it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e822	As I said in my first answer, I do not have available statistics on the number of people who use the access to simplified treatment of customs duties and charges for luggage. But otherwise, I hope that the questioner and I can agree that there is no point in having very much lower taxes on such goods introduced beyond the tax-free quota, because it is not intended to give incentives to take large amounts of alcohol across borders. In my opinion, it is a reasonable arrangement, which was also the intention when this scheme was introduced in 1951, that the fees should be equivalent to those payable on ordinary domestic purchases. I believe that the fees set in 1998 are on average around 90 pst. of what is the level of the tax on domestic sales, if I do not remember completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e830	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘As from 20 February 2000, the system of blank heating oil shall cease to be used for heating purposes. The previous legislation meant restrictions on the quantity that individual customers could purchase. If it is found by post-control that the limit has been exceeded, an auto-diesel charge shall be calculated on the whole delivery. This is charged to the oil company in question, which then invoices the distributor. Will back-testing be completed at the same time as the scheme of blank fuel oil?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e839	Initially, I refer to my answer to the question from the representative Bastesen in the Questionnaire on the same topic on 26 January 2000. In the case of mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles, an auto-diesel charge shall be payable. Oil chargeable for car diesel shall be blank. Exemptions from the levy are made when labelled oil is used. The branded low-cost oil may include: used for firing. The labelling system was introduced in October 1993. After some time it turned out that the selected brand names caused problems for the particular Norwegian kerosene ovens. On this basis, the Ministry allowed exemptions from oil used in paraffin ovens to be implemented in a way other than by labelling. This was implemented in the form of a temporary arrangement allowing the use of unlabelled oil in kerosene burners. One of the conditions for the permit was that the delivery of unlabelled oil would only be for tanks with a maximum tank content of 1 400 litres. The labelling substances have now changed and the arrangements for the supply of blank oil for use in paraffin ovens have ceased. This also means that there are no restrictions on the quantity of oil that can be delivered to the customer and that it is therefore not appropriate to re-calculate the charge on this basis. However, I show that the brand oil is subject to a CO2 and sulphur duty and a base charge on fuel oil etc. Against this background, the charging authorities will continue to need to carry out checks on the taxable persons in order to ensure that proper charging and payment has been made. Therefore, the verification of the taxable persons on a more general basis will not be possible even if the special scheme for kerosene burners has been repealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e852	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is mildly agreeing to record that the department here is both legislative, executive and judicial without the negotiators having a chance to defend themselves. When installations are charged with an additional charge because the limit of 1400 litres has been exceeded, it is invoiced to the distributor. He does not even have the opportunity to defend himself in relation to the burden he is under – the ministry has legislative, executive and judicial powers. My question is: How long has the Council of State planned to continue the post-control of fuel oil and the post-calculation of auto-diesel fuel oil charges? I am aware that all other taxes on diesel and petrol need to be checked and calculated. But fuel oil as a burner, how long should it be held and controlled now after the end of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e857	I understand that this topic is strongly addressed by the representative Bastesen, since we had a round on this in the Questionnaire as late as 26 January. It was quite immediately before the plan in question was terminated. Now I think the Bastisen is talking about the snow that fell last year, because now this arrangement is terminated. Of course, it is not relevant to check if it is delivered 1 400 litres or 2 000 litres or anything. So I think it's an irrelevant issue. The Bastisen takes up after the scheme was terminated. As far as I remember, it happened on February 20th.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e865	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘DataPower Norway AS is required from 1 March 2000 by the County Tax Office of Nord-Trøndelag to levy VAT on textbooks in the data sold with a training disk. Such a requirement is not promoted against other companies with a similar product. Does the Council of State consider such a requirement to be correct under the book regulation exempting textbooks from VAT, and will the Council of State ensure equal treatment of products?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e874	The general rule is that VAT is payable on all sales of goods. However, books are exempt from VAT at the latest level of turnover. As with newspapers, the turnover of books may be deducted from the input tax on their acquisitions. This is referred to as zero rate charging. The book requirement specifies the extent of the exemption and determines, among other things, the scope of the exemption. the exemption does not cover publications traded with other goods. Such publications are thus subject to a charge. The Ministry of Finance decided in 1995 in relation to a specific case submitted by DataPower Norway AS that the company's turnover of textbooks in the data sold together with the exercise disk was not subject to the tax exemption for printed publications. The decision was taken after obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Committee for Printed Writing. The committee thus recommended unanimously that such publications be regarded as taxable in accordance with the book regulation. There is also a long-term practice that supports this interpretation of the book regulation. This interpretation also applies irrespective of the nature of the goods attached to the publication and thus prevents circumvention of the legislation. Examples of such attachments may be exercise booklet/discrete and other course material such as block and pencil. In my opinion, this has been imposed by the County Tax Office in accordance with the relevant legislation. However, the special typeface is complicated and gives rise to several borderline cases. In order to ensure equal treatment for this type of case, the Tax Directorate has recently given a reminder of the legal status of this area vis-à-vis County Tax Offices. The Tax Directorate has therefore sent out a joint letter reminding the Tax Directorate of the charging conditions for books sold together with other goods. This should, in my view, ensure a uniform practice of legislation across the country, in line with the interpretation of the County Tax Office in the North-Tronde Team. In my view, any revision of those rules should be carried out as part of a general review of the rules on the charging of printed paper. As the representative of Lyngstad is probably familiar with, the selection that assesses the framework conditions of the press will give its place on 15 April. An assessment of the zero rate currently applicable to printed font will be included in the selection setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e885	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State makes this a general question. I am somewhat surprised at that, even though the exemption from textbooks is also based on the general exemption from printing. A relevant comparison for textbooks is the link with the development of electronic learning material. It's such a combination that we're now talking about. It would therefore be natural to assess these issues both in the light of the issue of VAT on printed and electronic writing. I expect the Council of State to see this context and the whole here and refer to what he said when he spoke about a possible assessment in connection with the general VAT reform. The Council of State responses are also elucidating in a way, as the Council of State considers that there must be equal treatment of similar products. I notice that the Tax Directorate has now sent a clarification of the book regulations at that point. That's what's needed. We can't have different practices from state to state. It is now important that the industry and the enterprises concerned are informed about it. Will the Council of State bring such information to the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e894	Yeah, at least it's perfectly obvious that we have to have equality with the law, the rules have to be practiced the same throughout the country. And that's what efforts have been made to achieve, at least now via the Tax Directorate. If further information is needed, we'll have to evaluate it. If it turns out to be such a need, we'll make sure to meet it. Then I see that, as Lyngstad now points out, you can see this case with a slightly different angle of incidence. Therefore, I will not entirely reject the fact that there may be changes, but I think it is appropriate that we wait to consider any changes until we have seen this sample work – that is, the sample that will present its release on 15 April, as in particular. concerns the framework conditions of the press.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e911	This question is deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e925	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e931	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e934	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘In the context of mobilisation, access has been granted to the purchase of private cars for use in the Defence. When the law on this was drafted, there were relatively few cars in Norway. Today there are large stocks of cars with dealers in both a new and used version. In relation to this, the law should be amended. Will the Council of State take an initiative to do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e943	Law of 29 June 1951 No. 19 on military requisitions provides the legal basis for requisitioning civil resources for use in the Defense in the event of war. The Home meal also applies when the Defence or parts of it are put on a stand-by war foot. Revised provisions of the Law were laid down by the King of the Council of State on 17 September 1999 and entered into force on 1 December of that year. The defence needs approximately 27,000 vehicles, mainly four-wheeled, vans, vans, buses, trucks and other special vehicles. In addition, the civil defence has a need for approx. 15000 vehicles, which are to a large extent passenger cars. If the vehicles are to be recovered from dealers, it is necessary to ensure that the required number of vehicles is distributed among the different types. Today's business profitability requirements include, inter alia: wanting to place minimum capital in stocks. Stocks are sought to a minimum, with delivery in accordance with the ‘just in time’ principle. This is also the case in the car industry, and not least in the case of heavier vehicles. These are increasingly produced on orders according to the buyer’s specifications. Recruitment of vehicles by dealers would hardly satisfy the total defence needs of the number of vehicles, either in total or by category. It is therefore considered most appropriate to maintain the current system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e954	I thank the Council of State for the answer. My point is not that you should go away from being able to claim cars. On the contrary – I think we need it, like what the Council of State said. But my point is that it's being rationalized and streamlined in a different way than what it's doing today, and I'm not so sure that those who print out these petitions all the way, see the rationalization effect that can be in doing these things in a different way. So my question basically went more to it with efficiency and rationalization, not that the defense should not be given the opportunity to claim. Can the Council of State see if there are possibilities to save a few dollars on that particular job?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e961	I agree that one should also have a cost assessment of how this works in relation to any practice that one has had and that continues. So there has been a review of the legislation, and then with a new regulation designed as late as 1999. The background to that review was the need to adapt to the current organisation of defence and total defence, in particular with regard to preparedness planning. I take it for granted that the assessments that the questioner is looking for are also made in connection with that review, as it is so close in time. A notification is sent every year to those who have cars that are requested, and it is clear that there is a working process and a cost of it. On the other hand, if one is also to take into account those affected, it is important that all are aware at all times of the obligations incumbent upon one in relation to such a requisition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e978	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e991	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e997	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘For seven years, an Oslo woman has been waiting to receive her application for compensation for victims of violence from the County of Oslo and Akershus, according to the NRK. The reason is that the police have not sent the necessary papers to the county. What will the Council of State do in this specific matter, and what can he do to ensure that such situations do not arise in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1006	Unfortunately, it is right as the NRK stated, that an Oslo woman had to wait as long as seven years to deal with her victims' case. This is, of course, an unacceptable length of time. I have been informed that the county manager has now received the paperwork from the police and is about to close the handling of the matter. With regard to the long handling time in the police, this will be taken up and intensified towards the country's police officers. I have also been informed that the County of Oslo and Akershus have improved the procedures to prevent this from happening again in the future. Against this background, I see no need to take further action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1025	I have this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Today, 510 Norwegian women live at a secret address of fear of violent ex-husbands. Many have asked for new numbers in order to ‘disappear’ completely, but today’s legislation does not allow for such changes. The crisis centres made a recommendation to the Ministry of Justice in 1991 asking that women in such situations be allowed to change their personal numbers. The recommendation has not yet been followed. What will the Council of State do to give these women the opportunity to live a new life in full security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1034	Many women who have broken out of violent cohabitation still feel threatened by the attacker and experience that it continues to practice violence and pose threats. The worker often finds himself even after he has moved or taken other precautions to keep himself hidden. The Swedish People's Register Act imposes, in principle, the obligation of professional secrecy on individuals. However, a person’s full name, personal identification number, address, etc. is not considered to be private if such information does not disclose a client relationship or any other relationship that must be considered as personal. Such information may be disclosed to persons and private institutions where such information is necessary for the exercise of legal rights or obligations. It is possible to apply for an address not to be provided to private persons and institutions. The other personal data in the public register are not the basis for taking measures to protect, in addition to what is mentioned. Under the law in force, it is not possible to get a new or fingered personal number on the grounds that violence or threats may be involved. According to today's rules, access to a new person number is only permitted if it is incorrect on the person number or after sex. I agree that the protection of the most vulnerable victims is not good enough. It is necessary to work towards changes in the rules providing better protection for personal data and, where appropriate, access to personal identification numbers on a case-by-case basis. I am now taking the initiative to set up a working group to work to investigate and clarify the question of changed numbers in order to protect women exposed to violence. This work is a follow-up to the Action Plan ‘Violence against Women’, which was transmitted to the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom on 24 November 1999. This issue is addressed and it is promoted as a separate measure in the plan that the issue of increased protection of personal data for persons exposed to serious violence and threats should be addressed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1052	I thank you for your answer and I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is now setting up a working group to provide women and others with the protection they need in the face of serious violence. I urge the Minister of Justice to make this a fast-working group and to return to Stortinget with the necessary changes as soon as possible. I would also like to draw the attention of the Minister of Justice to the arrangements that exist in Sweden, which actually have a set of arrangements, first of all the ‘Law of Secrets’, which allows women to change both their personal numbers, their names, etc. etc., which gives them the opportunity to grasp their lives, and also the so-called ‘quota’, where new residence addresses are not registered in the public register and only the tax services know where the woman lives again. So I want to ask the Minister of Justice, will he take this very, very quickly, and will he consider the arrangements that are in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1059	I'll get hold of this quickly, because it's necessary. I'm familiar with the Swedish arrangements, which give access to a so-called security marking in the People's Register, which is not regulated, but which means that you can then be very careful about providing personal data, to the point that you can use an old address, even if you have moved, and to the point that the representative suggested that you can have a finger on a personal number. It is also true that this relationship that the representative raised was addressed in the letter of consultation sent out last September by the Ministry on the protection of sources and the anonymity of criminal proceedings. So this is a question that has my involvement, and I've had so many contacts that I'm willing to push it forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1067	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The World Gang on 7 February 2000 stated: ‘Immigrants who are to be expelled under the rules may in the future become, if they are guaranteed by resource-intensive people.’ To this state Secretary, Atle Hamar, confirmed that it is being worked to provide a so-called ‘sponsorship scheme’ this spring, where immigrants may be afraid of the involvement of Norwegian friends. Will the Council of State elaborate on this further, and will such a proposal be made for the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1076	The look-up in the World Gang does not give a correct picture of the issue as it was investigated in the ministry — and as was also presented in the newspaper the next day. What we are considering is the possibility of introducing a temporary authorisation scheme from one to two years to persons who do not fulfil other conditions for authorisation under the Foreign Affairs Act. The scheme is intended to have a humanitarian aspect, in the sense that it should be a positive experience for the person who comes, and for those who are responsible for it – a kind of host scheme. The scheme shall not charge the State budget, but shall be entirely financed by an organisation, assembly or municipality. In this way, we will also be able to meet the commitment we often experience in community. The purpose, boundaries and other details remain to be determined. However, what is clear is that the scheme is not intended to apply to persons in Norway who have been refused authorisation. Nor should it provide a basis for permanent immigration into the country. And it is also such that when this matter is resolved by my side, I will submit a proposal to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1083	I thank you for your answer. I was a little worried about the answer, because I feel that we are moving away from a very important principle that has gone on this with similarity. One should not be able to buy a place in society. And as one opens up that one can say that one is a hostitant of church sounds and municipalities and that kind of thing: Yes, it is in many ways to break with the principle that we have had in the judicial system – that one should not be able to buy a place in the system. I'm a little concerned that one thinks such thoughts, given that we have a strict asylum and immigration policy, and that one in this way gives room to smear – I would say smear – into the queue of those who may need humanitarian support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1090	The representative is wrong. This is not part of asylum or immigration policy. It's not meant to be like this. It's not meant to apply to people who are here and have been rejected. Nor is it meant to be a shortcut to Norway. It is meant to be a time-limited stay in Norway and where it remains to be investigated. But if you want to describe it publicly, we know the scheme at youth level — for example. We know it through the AFS scheme, where young people can travel across the world and be exchanged. We suggest that that possibility can also apply to others, but there must be clear rules for it, and there are rules that are neither about smearing nor about going forward in an unrelenting way, nor about sneaking into the realm. It's about a time-limited stay in order to receive something positive and possibly give something positive, and that's it. It is not intended as any contribution to changing the rules of asylum or labour immigration policy. There's never been a theme on our part when we've been thinking about this scheme. The size will of course get the case, and they will then discuss it and assess it as they think it is necessary, when the matter comes to the knowledge of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1100	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Justice: ‘Norway has no effective expulsions from 70 Kosovar Albanians who have served long drug sentences in this country. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the expulsions are realised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1109	The question was addressed in the oral question procedure, but the more complete answer comes to the representative Rasmussen. It is true, as pointed out in the question from the representative Rasmussen, that there are about 70 people from Kosovo expelled from Norway. Most people are convicted of drug crimes, but cases also include persons convicted of other circumstances and not all have been punished for long periods of time. The collective protection scheme for persons from Kosovo in April last year did not include persons who had been given a deportation order or committed criminal offences that could provide a basis for expulsion. Norwegian non-resident authorities conduct strict practices in relation to the expulsion of persons who have committed criminal acts in Norway and are concerned that this policy can be implemented by forced deportation of persons who do not leave the rich voluntarily. In the case of persons from Yugoslavia, including Kosovo, it has been a problem in the past that the Yugoslav authorities have not accepted involuntary returns from nationals of the country of origin, regardless of whether they have been from Kosovo or Yugoslavia. It has not been decisive whether or not the persons have had Yugoslav passports. It should be noted that this has been a problem not only for the Norwegian authorities but also for other countries that have tried to transport people to Yugoslavia. The problem has also not only affected persons who have been expelled but have included all those who have not had the right to stay in Norway and who have wanted to return to Yugoslavia. In 1996, an agreement was negotiated with the Yugoslav authorities to allow for compulsory returns. As a result of the subsequent developments in Kosovo, it was not appropriate to sign the return agreement. Following the changes that have taken place in Kosovo in 1999, the work on forced returns of those expelled could be carried out in the current six-month period. I gave a clear signal before New Year last year that we could work together to find practical solutions for transportation. This work raises several complex issues of a political and practical nature, but I can assure you that the work will be given high priority by the Government. While the Norwegian authorities will work nationally on this issue, all international initiatives that come to coordinate their policies will of course also follow up, and we will maintain close contact with the authorities in Sweden and Denmark in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1124	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that this is a very difficult question. The Labour Party's position is that crime should be punished regardless of the background of those involved and that expulsion decisions should be enforced. We know that deportation for criminal activity should be a special reaction, leading to a permanent ban on entry to the country from which you are expelled. Then is my point in relation to the Schengen cooperation and the things you want to put in there: in my view – and hopefully also the state’s view – it will help people who have come out of the country to have trouble getting back in if they want to. But I notice that the Council of State said that they would follow up all international initiatives in terms of cooperation in relation to the problem of getting people expelled, to really get out of the country. And then my question is: does a non-Norwegian person take initiative towards other countries, as this is an international issue that many countries are interested in solving?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1135	Yes, we are taking initiatives from the Norwegian side. We have e.g. ongoing Nordic cooperation on all asylum and refugee issues, which is a very useful cooperation. We are also trying to follow up the initiatives of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, and it is in this situation that the High Commissioner has asked a return to Kosovo to give priority to those who want to return. It must also be seen in the context of, when coordination is needed, that many European countries have also had criminals whom they wanted to return. Therefore, Norway, like Sweden and Denmark, has not yet carried out compulsory transport operations. However, I expect that in the current year a practical solution will be found to both the practical and political issues associated with forced returns, and I can repeat that the Government prioritises this. This could be done, for example, by: is about a direct transport to Pristina. Then you must have a purpose in relation to UNMIK, and you must also have clarified the relationship between transit through the air territory of other countries. So, of course, we will take the initiative, and I will also ensure that the initiatives are followed up, for the representative Rasmussen and I have the simple opinion that something has been done wrong and abused our trust, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1147	I have the following questions to the State Council Dørum: ‘Thepromilleprogramme instead of the prison sentence has been in place for four years. Eastfold, Buskerud, Rogaland, Süd-Trøndelag and Nordland have this as a testing scheme. The programme is aimed at those who are targeted at driving more than 1,5 per mille or who have been previously convicted of per mille driving. Does the State Council wish the programme to apply to all per miller drivers and that the scheme should apply to the whole country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1156	The testing scheme of pro-mille programmes has been in operation since 28 June 1996. The target group for the pro-mille programme are those who would alternatively be sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for repeated pro-mille driving or driving with more than 1.5 per mill and who also have a recognised alcohol problem. Prison has experience limited preventative effects against this group. The fall back on new pro-mille driving in this target group is experiential and these persons account for a significant part of the total number of road accidents. The aim of the programme is to make the most of this special risk group to refrain from driving with pro-mille in the future, thus creating a safer traffic environment. Experience with the sample scheme with today’s target population is good and there is nothing in the existing evaluation material that suggests that the target population should be substantially changed. The testing scheme with pro-mille programmes in five of the counties of the country expires on 28 June 2000. With regard to the issue of an extension of the scheme to the country as a whole, we have in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 said that by the end of the probationary period we will take a decision on the further development of the pro-mille programme. It is clear that an extension of the scheme will require the allocation of resources to criminal justice in freedom. The first natural opportunity for the Government to come back to this matter will be in the revised national budget for 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1165	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understood that the matter was then settled and made up for it. But I would like to focus a little on the guidelines for the pro-mille programme, which today is that people who come under this scheme must have a so-called recognised alcohol problem and a stable life situation in order to implement such a punishment. In my view, it should be such that not only those with an alcohol problem should have this possibility, then it can easily be discriminatory. In my view, the system should be extended to cover several convictions per million. Of course, people who need such a compensation must be motivated to participate in the programme. That has to be a clear assumption. The exception for such punishment is when pro-mille driving has led to additional crime, or when you hurt another person, and it should also be in the future. The purpose of the programme is not abstinence, but to discourage pro-mille driving in the hope of creating safer traffic. Does not the Council of State see that this may be equally necessary for all per mille drivers, without the need to be confirmed as an alcohol abuser in order to receive such information and weaning?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1172	There are many good intentions and objectives that can be implemented over public budgets. In my further work on the matter, I want to focus on what we've learned now, namely that with the target group you've had now, you've had good experience. This applies, inter alia, to: the work carried out in the representative's home country, Eastfold, where the work is very active, and I myself have gained that experience. But I now base my further work on what has until now been the framework of the programme, and will not say anything more than what I said in my first answer, that the first natural opportunity to look at the question is the revised national budget for 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1180	I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice a question that goes on the following: ‘The Minister of Justice and the Secretary of State have been abroad to gather as much information as possible from colleagues in order to assess changes in the weapons instructions of the Norwegian police. Visits have concentrated on Denmark and the United Kingdom. What experience has the Council of State gained from these inspections and has any information been provided that has led the Council of State to change its view on the armaments of the Norwegian police?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1189	I have recently gained insight into how the Norwegian police are given operational training during basic education at the Police College and in the annual training in the police districts. With regard to visits to Denmark and the United Kingdom, it has been valuable to gain insight into the two different schemes. In Denmark, there have been no special debates in recent years on police armaments, whether in public or in the police. As you know, the Danish police are armed with handguns. The British police are known to be unarmed, but have separate armed units that are called upon when necessary. There is no discussion there today about changing the general armaments regime. This was confirmed by me at the latest both yesterday and yesterday in contact with both the political authorities and the police authorities. In Norway, we have a long tradition for the police to be civil and unarmed. At my discretion, it is important to continue today's arrangement. In order to achieve this, it is necessary for a police officer who has the necessary skills and equipment. Tactical and operational skills are fundamental. We must have crews who are able to handle such situations. Police emergency units, UEH, have good skills in this area. The specialists are the response team in Oslo, which also has a national responsibility for assistance. My impression is that today we are well covered in this area. When situations arise that put police skills to the test, it is important that all levels of the police contribute to evaluation and any improvement measures. Police high school is now undertaking a survey project aimed at systematising and processing information from the reports received by the Department as a result of police armed missions. The purpose of this is to continuously focus on procedures and any changes in training. I know, of course, that the Police College has improved its education from such insights over recent years, I have experienced that when I visited the Police College. But I have to conclude, in answer to the question, that the visits to Denmark and England for my part have not led to any change in view of today's practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1200	I thank you for your answer. That was a clear speech from the Council of State. I find it regrettable that the visits have not led to another position. Based on the tougher everyday lives facing several police districts, it is important to draw the right conclusions so that police officers have the necessary security of life and health. That must be the important thing in this case. Already in 1965, the Danish police were armed after four unarmed policemen were killed there. It is hoped that we will release such episodes in Norway before the responsible authorities respond adequately. It's about being at the forefront of development, not in retrospect. According to State Secretary Solbakken, last year there were 200 cases where weapons were used in Denmark. In single situations in Norway, the need is no less than that of our Danish brothers. What will happen before the Council of State may change its position regarding the possibility for the police to use weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1211	While the United Kingdom, like Norway, has in most cases an unarmed police force, they also have, like us, the police that can be used armed. The difference is that the British have units that have been trained exclusively for this purpose, while we have policemen in ordinary service who have been trained to move out. I have personally taken part in the training courses available. I believe that the training courses are good, and that the police are fit to solve the problem. There is a common feature between Norway and the United Kingdom that, in the vast majority of cases, weapons do not have to be used, and in the rarest cases, shots are exchanged. I believe that the most important thing – and most realistically – in Norway is to hold a police force unarmed in the usual police work, as we know it from a large neighbouring country like the United Kingdom, but which, at the same time, must be well-trained and well-organised to know how to deal with a situation if necessary. I have said that we are considering this on an ongoing basis. I know that those who are involved in education do that, and I'm also personally prepared to do that, because it's vital to be able to keep the limit we have in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1225	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: ‘The Organization against Public Discrimination, OMOD, has put forward to the Ministry of Justice a proposal for a ‘receipt mechanism’ whereby persons with a minority background can quickly provide proof of their identity through police control. Could the Council of State consider voting in favour of this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1234	First, I would like to stress that the purpose of foreign controls is to limit the number of people who are illegal here, with the negative consequences that this entails for society. Illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings represent an increasing problem both in Norway and in other European countries. I therefore want the police to maintain a reasonable level of control, so that illegal residence can be minimised. However, I have a great deal of understanding that controls can be felt as an unpleasant intervention in the individual's freedom, especially if persons with a minority background are subjected to repeated checks without having acted in a manner that gives rise to suspicions that they are staying here illegally. On this basis, in October 1999, the Ministry of Justice issued new guidelines for the control of foreigners after entry. The guidelines state that post-entry checks are not to be carried out solely on the basis of appearance, language, name or because a person is a non-resident or has foreign origin. The Organisation Against Public Discrimination (OMOD) launched several years ago a proposal to establish a ‘receipt mechanism’ to allow persons with a minority background under control to submit a certificate showing that they had previously been checked. The Ministry did not find any reason to support the proposal, including: because such a system of acknowledgement would not prevent persons who are present in places where the police suspect that there are illegal residents from being checked. Nor can a receipt be provided as proof that the police have carried out the check in a reprehensible manner. As I said, I have a great understanding that the person who experiences control of his person sees this as a negative experience. This imposes great demands on the understanding of the persons checked for the purpose of the checks. In addition, the checks must be carried out in a smooth and polite manner. In the light of the new guidelines as well as the considerations relating to a receipt scheme that I have referred to, I still see no reason to introduce such a receipt scheme as the representative Jan Petter Rasmussen refers to in his question. However, I am very concerned that the police should not discriminate, and therefore invited me to do so. to an open discussion on this at the police chief’s meeting last autumn, where the secretary-general of the Centres for Ethnic Discrimination briefed and started a discussion on these issues. Based on the conversation that took place – which was very direct, very concrete, and which was marked by the willingness to combat discrimination by the police leaders – I will follow up on this. I would like, among other things: actively build on the experience gained by Centres against ethnic discrimination. This center has been established, among other things. in order to preserve the experience of discrimination, and OMOD has been one of the birth helpers here. So they're going to have a lot of praise because they've been active and because they're on. But the practical proposal as it is formulated, I don't now see it as the most appropriate way to put the discrimination to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1251	I thank you for your answer. It would be clear from the debate earlier today in the oral question procedure that the Labour Party and I also agree that we should have a reasonable control, and a pressure on controls, in relation to what is going on in this country for illegal residence. We fully agree on that. But the point in this case is that the persons who have a valid stay and have a clean meal in the bag are constantly exposed to controls. In fact, the Oslo police have also admitted that there may be a tendency for this to happen. As for the Centers against ethnic discrimination, I guess both the Council of State and I were on each side of the table in their own time in relation to the establishment, so I think we have the same objective in that regard. State Council Odd Roger Enoksen has said that one should take, among other things, organisations working against discrimination in society, seriously, while taking UDI reports and other issues seriously in this regard. So here I think there's real opportunities to take OMOD seriously, and you don't. The system I'm referring to is established in England and works well, so I'm going to ask the Council to reconsider this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1262	I said I would not review it again now. But at the same time I have said that I am open to all practical suggestions, and the reason for this is the following: These include: in the Oslo police force, but also in other police districts, created strategic plans to combat discrimination based on a simple philosophy, the same as the Rasmussen representative, that a citizen is a citizen. And there's no point for the police to have the least possible friends. You need as many friends as possible, and you need friends to fight those who are enemies, namely criminals. I myself have been present at a number of meetings where what really makes sense is when people personally tell about discrimination. This is where representatives of the police department are present and listening. I find that it makes an impression. I believe in such measures. I also believe in the dialogue that was created when Senter against ethnic discrimination took part in the police chief's meeting. Because I want to have the press on the case, I want to follow it up, and I want to pay particular attention to the experience the Centre is gaining, for all such experiences, which are testimonial experiences, force them to constantly look at practice. Of course, I also support the police in recruiting from ethnic minorities, so my question is not about will or attitude, but about finding the practical measures that last. And on that basis, I'm going to evaluate openly at all times what's the most effective. But I'm waiting for further input from those who have the practice, both at the police and among others. Centres for ethnic discrimination, to which I attach great importance to listening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1279	This question, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1282	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘The demand for part-time seats in student kindergartens has been increasing following the introduction of cash support. Since the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research only supports places where children have an agreed residence period of 31 hours a week or more, these kindergartens no longer receive support from the Ministry. As a result, many of these kindergartens suffer loss. When will the Council of State fix this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1291	Children's playgrounds earmarked for students' children, driven by student relations alone or in cooperation with others, are eligible for support from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs. Direct State grants from the KUF for the operation of student kindergartens were introduced from the 1990 budget year. The objective of the grant scheme is to contribute to the quality of studies and to provide equal opportunities for normal study progress for women and men. Provision shall be made for the combination of education and training with dependant responsibility. Student kindergartens are an educational policy instrument, while student kindergartens should be a complement to the nursery provision in the public and private sectors. Guidelines for support from the KUF to student children's playgrounds are established through St.meld. No 14 for 1993-94, cf. Inner. S. No 101 for 1993-94 and circular F-13/93. The aid scheme is a framework-driven scheme, i.e.: the funding of a certain number of sites. The scheme is therefore not a right regime. According to the rules, we give full grants to places where children have an agreed period of residence of 31 hours a week or more. Furthermore, no grants are granted for locations with a residence time of less than 31 hours per year. week. The moments that were taken into account in determining the 31-hour limit per week were, among other things, Student kindergartens as a training policy tool to stimulate increased flow, and that the need for full-time places was high. However, I agree that the introduction of the cash support may have changed the demand for full-time facilities compared to part-time locations. The Ministry is therefore in contact with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs to see whether the grant scheme of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research can be made more flexible. A change in the grant scheme will perhaps come back to me in the 2001 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1302	I thank you for your answer. The background to the question is that during the introduction of the cash support, it was possible to combine kindergarten with cash support. This could be done by using a part-time kindergarten with different steps, depending on how many hours you need the nursery in the week. At the same time, a circular has been issued to the student relations, including this year, that there is no state aid granted except for up to 31 hours per week in kindergarten. This is not in line with the principle of being valid for anyone other than the student children's households, and the intentions of introducing cash support are poor when there is also a high demand for part-time seats in the student children's households after the introduction of the cash support. Does the Government not consider that the scheme should be amended as soon as possible and before the next study year? And will the Council of State be able to contribute to this being incorporated into the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1313	I see to the greatest extent the argument of the representative of Aarrestad. I remind you that student kindergartens are an educational policy instrument, while being a complement to the kindergarten provision in the public and private sectors. I agree that if student kindergartens cannot provide part-time places for financial reasons, this will mean that student families will have less freedom of choice than other families with young children. With regard to the question of whether this can be accommodated and presented in the revised national budget, it is natural that this should be taken back to the Ministry, and that the answer to the question of whether it is possible or not comes just in the revised national budget. At least it will be brought on to the person, and then we'll have to wait and see if it's possible to fulfill the wish. If not, it is natural to consider it in the context of the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1325	I will be allowed to address the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘During 1999, all road projects in Oslo are exposed to competition and expect an annual cost reduction of 5-20 pst. How far has road sector outsourcing come on a national basis and how much savings would the Ministry of Transport have had if all counties introduced competitive outsourcing such as Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1334	It is necessary to clarify that the representative Nistad refers to the Oslo municipal road network and that its experience is difficult to transfer to the country as a whole. Moreover, since its inception in 1991, the Oslo Road Authority has been putting all its investment projects on a competitive footing. On a country-by-country basis, about 70 pst. of the total investment budget of the State Road Administration — in the case of national and county roads — used after a competitive outsourcing. The remaining 30 pst. carried out by the State Road Administration’s own production departments. When assessing the competitive situation of the State Road Administration, we need to be aware that there is production activity across the country and that there are major regional differences in the functioning of the market. In the Eastern region, to which the representative Nistad refers, we have a well-functioning market on the tasks being put out to competition. However, this is not the case in all parts of the country. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the potential savings for the State Road Service on a further competitive outsourcing, but Sweden’s experience suggests that there will be even more resources to save on all development and operation and maintenance being put out of competition. In the state road transport sector, an efficiency project is now working very intensively in both the authority and production activities. I refer here to the statement of this in the state budget for 2000, on pages 88-90. In addition, I intend to start an investigation in the near future, in which the full outsourcing of the production activities in the state road system will also be assessed. The investigation will assess models ranging from a divisional model to separation in a state-owned limited liability company. However, it is important for me to stress that we do not add up to any privatisation of production activities in the State Road Service, but we will look at solutions that make all production activities – both State and private – subject to a level playing field as far as possible. In addition, the Ministry will detail this in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1349	I am very pleased with the measures that the Council of State has taken, and with the improvement in efficiency and the outsourcing of competition that has been made. I am aware – even after what the Council of State says – that it varies a little from state to state, as it has come a long way in the East, while there are some remaining states. 70 pst. Now it's done, and then it's still going to be 30 pst. which are not put up for tender or put up for competition. Since there is a gap between the different counties: is there a need to protect their own employees in some counties, or is the strategic considerations underlying the decision of the State Road Service on whether the road projects are to be carried out under their own control or whether they are to be put on the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1356	I think that the gap between the different states must be seen in the context, among other things. with the budgetary situation and the allocation of funds. It must also be seen in relation to the available offers and opportunities for real competition. I do not see it right to say that there is a need to protect themselves and theirs that is the starting point for these assessments, on the contrary, the State Road Service has carefully reviewed its own resources, its own personnel, and has set out a plan for efficiency improvement that will be expected to be approximately. 20 pst. efficiency improvement over a given period. In other words, there are big things happening within the state road system itself, and I will be able to get back to this in more detail in connection with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1364	I will be allowed to ask my next question also to the Minister for Transport: ‘In road projects, the costs currently incurred in starting and downgrading around 10-15 pst. of the construction costs. Societal costs are high in the way the authorities are based on the fact that construction projects are constantly being interrupted or only short sections of the building are being built. Has the Ministry tried to get an overview of the potential for saving through a comprehensive planning and development of road projects?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1373	It is true that there are large costs related to the start-up and decommissioning of an installation. On the other hand, if it is claimed that these costs could have been avoided by increasing our projects. The main point of the rig is precisely the proximity of the roadside work. This is best demonstrated by the fact that both the builder and the contractor set up several rigs for the different parcels of our major projects. Gradually, the development of some road sections benefits road users as part of their journeys are completed. In addition, the planning and expansion of the various parcels may take place in parallel. However, it is necessary to clarify that it is very important that facilities already in operation should be provided with sufficient means of rational implementation, i.e. that we should build as cheaply as possible. Due to the tight fiscal policy that has been necessary in recent years, the appropriations for road investment have not been large enough for us to do so. In this context, reference may be made to the 1999 State budget, where it includes, inter alia, the following: on page 72, in order to be able to operate start-up installations rationally, it would be necessary to do so. $800 million. kr more than that proposed. It is therefore necessary to give a high priority to individual projects in order to achieve the most rational plant operation possible. An improvement is expected in 2000 compared to 1999 in terms of rational operation. As regards the savings potential of overall planning and expansion, the Ministry has not carried out a systematic analysis of this. However, in December 1998, the Stortinget requested the Government to investigate and submit possible pilot projects for private funding and further construction and operation of the so-called OPS project. Such alternative implementation of road projects is likely to have certain advantages. This will come back to the Ministry in the National Transport Plan, thereby confirming the wishes of the Storting both in the case of OPS and in the case of the projects in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1382	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State, in particular on the development of OPS. I'll take that with me. I think there will be great savings in implementing this kind of development. TV2 had a report the other day about many projects that are not completed and that are only there – whether they are not in use, or maybe one is going to finish in a few years. So the Council of State also says that competitive outsourcing and streamlining can give a 20-pst gain, and he's working very hard on it. I'm grateful for that. He will now also make a more comprehensive expansion instead of the climbing and downgrading that has been carried out. These are going to be a lot of different ways to save money. Does he have any idea of percentage savings on the overall savings potential when we expect efficiency improvement, OPS expansion, and project implementation, instead of letting it stand as it does today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1391	The representative Nistad himself, in his question, has suggested a certain percentage. It may be that what's inside is the right level. We want to get back to this further. We need to make the most visible not what we lose, but what we have opportunities to achieve, and if we can get effective progress on a number of projects, we win so much that we don't have to get involved in what we have to lose by rigging down because of lack of budget resources. In the case of the OPS projects, there will be pilot projects from which we will have to draw experience, to see if we have found the ideal and correct solution in the next round. In other words, this means that you have the opportunity to see a project in a larger context. But let me stress that the state road service on the projects they run themselves, together with the contractors, is doing a very good job for the efficient use of funds – but then it's the budget crowns at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1401	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘It is speculated to install a railway to the old aerodrome area of Fornebu. The costs of an urban runway are the same as for a railway, while a combined solution increases the price by 500 million. crowns without the presence of the passenger information base. When the airport was in operation, trains to Fornebu were not found to be bill equivalent. With the problems of the railway as it has recently been, and all unresolved safety tasks, does the Council of State think it makes sense to launch a completely new railway project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1410	It has been decided under the Planning and Building Act that an impact assessment is to be carried out for runway operation by Fornebu. The investigation is now open to consultation and public review, with an opinion deadline of 17 March 2000. The impact study contains a total of three main options. This is the bus, the city railway and a railway solution in the form of a so-called butt track from Lysaker station. Ending stations can stay at the new Telenor, alternatively further out in the Fornebu country. A combination solution has also been considered for which trams can also use the railway track. The investment costs of the urban railway are estimated at 1,030 million. kr, while the cost of the railway solution is from 660 million to 1380 million. kr, depending on the length of the track and requirements for technical solutions. The additional costs of any combination solution are between approx. 300-550 million. kr, depending on the railway solution and the connection for the track in the Skøyen area. An extension for Fornebu with 15 000-20000 jobs and 5000-6000 dwellings is intended to develop significantly more traffic compared to what one had before the aerodrome was closed. In their provisional recommendations, the operators, the State Road Administration of Akershus and the Railway Agency of the Region of East have proposed a railway solution based on the capacity needs, costs and profitability of the project. The Ministry of Transport, which has been entrusted with the responsibility of the authorising authority for the impact assessment, will await the hearing and the final recommendation of the action holders before deciding on the transport solution for Fornebu. The Government will present the National Transport Plan for the Storting before Easter. A review of and proposals for prioritisation will be carried out, inter alia. future railway projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1425	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I look forward with excitement to the impact assessment, with the deadline of 17 March, and the conclusions that will be reached. I would like to remind the Council of State that new routes in the billions class are now in line. You have e.g. The Ringerix track to NOK 6-8 billion and double tracks on some sections, there are also plans to improve the Trondheim–Steinkjer route at a cost of NOK 3-4 billion, and the tunnel through the Gift Box, to mention something. At the same time, we know that a lot of money is needed to secure level crossings and to install ATS on some sections. Would the Council not agree that plans to build new sections now need to be scrapped, until improvements and the safety of those we already have are made?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1434	I am tempted to say here as in many contexts: this is in the hands of the Storting. What is happening here in the Chamber after the Committee has given its opinion on IT Fornebu will have a major impact on the progress of the transport projects around Fornebu, not least on the collective side. I have been very busy and am surprised that the debate has not been more central to what collective solutions you think of the large number of people who are going to live and work in the area and who are going to be transported back and forth daily. If we don't manage to get a good collective solution more or less from the start, we will experience queues and conflicts, and again big and important questions in this room about how to solve this. This has been tried by the Ministry and the Government to get ahead of them by carrying out an impact assessment, but at the end of the day, it will be the means and decisions taken here in the Chamber on the solution to be chosen, which will be decisive for the solution with which we will conclude. But I assume that it will have to be a good collective solution rather than single solutions adapted to the car users.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1449	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1455	‘According to a notice published in the Varvis Varden on 15 February 2000, the County Street Agency of Telemark states that ‘travel to outpatient clinics other than the nearest one must be covered by the individual patient’. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the guidelines for the coverage of travel expenses in the case of free hospital choice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1462	Public health benefits cover travel expenses for research or treatment. When calculating the amount of the benefit, the Social Security Office shall base the cost of the cheapest way of travel by means of regular transport to the nearest place where the patient may receive the necessary examination or treatment. This applies initially also when travelling to public outpatient clinics. In the counties where the county has given guidance that the patient can choose where one will be treated in the county, i.e. where the patient does not belong to a specific hospital or outpatient clinic, he/she currently covers the travel expenses of the outpatient clinic in the state where the patient is being treated. This applies regardless of whether this is the nearest outpatient clinic or not in relation to the patient’s home. The extra expenses of travelling to outpatient clinics in a state other than the state of the patient are not covered by popular fear today. Moreover, such additional costs are not covered by outpatient treatment or after entry into a health institution in another country. The Ministry aims to have a new law on patients’ rights in force during 2000. Once the law has entered into force, travel expenses in the case of free hospitalisation shall be shared between the population and the patient. In the State budget for 2000, it was decided that an asset should be paid using free hospital choice and that it should be DKK 200 per year. travel – 400 kr when travelling on a return journey. The extra costs of public health in the event of the introduction of free hospitalisation shall be charged by lifting the general feature of sick transport by NOK 5. This was agreed during the budget management in the autumn of 1999. In addition to public hospitals, the district psychiatric centers throughout the country are covered by free hospital selection under new law on patient rights. Publicly, one means the hospitals or district psychiatric centers that go under regional health plan. Hospitals also include outpatient clinics belonging to their hospital organisation, although outpatient clinics are physically separated from the hospital. Coverage of travel expenses in case of free hospitalisation is thus also due to outpatient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1480	I interpret the Council of State's response to the fact that the practices applied in Telemark are not in line with the guidelines that exist today. Patients who are not treated at Telemark Central Hospital due to a long waiting period are now sent to Rjukan, where orthopaedic procedures are significantly shorter and are assessed outpatiently. It's not the patient's fault that there's a difference in waiting time. It is a priority that has also been done in the various hospitals. In my view, it is clearly unreasonable for patients to have to bear the cost of that journey themselves. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she agrees with the view that it must be unreasonable for patients to have to bear an additional cost that is a consequence of better resource use by treating those who have the shortest waiting time in the county. An additional question: will the Council look at the different guidelines for reimbursement of travel expenses, so as to avoid this kind of unreasonable outcome?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1489	I do not know the specific matter that is the starting point for the notice in Varden. After 1 February 1999, Telemark is a member of the Southern Health Region. Before that time, Telemark was in health region 2. Telemark was early out with decisions on free hospital elections. If the county guidelines are followed, the relevant travel expenses are required to be covered. If the user has chosen a location to be treated on a free basis, it will not be possible to apply the same requirement. But I'm going to say that both of the questions from Bello's representative are followed up and examined in more detail. That's what I think is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1499	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Personal and private data on 100,000 Norwegian women and their children from the ‘Norwegian mother and child study’ may be sent to foreign pharmaceutical manufacturers, showing a World Gang survey on 15 February 2000. Foreign pharmaceutical companies and genetic engineering companies are in line to access the biological material in order to contribute financially to the project. The data protection authority considers this to be in breach of the concession terms. What will the Council of State do to ensure that sensitive information is not compromised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1508	The Norwegian mother and child survey were dealt with in Stortinget in 1998. The government proposed in St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98 that the project could start on condition that the State Institute for Public Health secured the bulk of the project funding, either through external sources of funding or through current grants for R & D purposes. The size joined this. Since then, Folkehalsa has been in contact with a wide range of potential stakeholders, including commercial companies, to which the representative Sjøli refers. I would like to stress that no agreements have been concluded with these. The Norwegian mother and child survey are a major research project, which will contribute a lot of new and important knowledge. Like other major Norwegian health studies, it has also proved to be of interest to international pharmaceutical companies. However, although the project is endorsed by the Regional Committee on Research Ethics and the Consent has been granted by the Data Protection Authority, there is still a need for clearer ethical and legal guidelines for the use of the type of material to be collected here. The Government has recently appointed a sample to assess different aspects of the procurement, storage and use of human biological material for different purposes – the so-called Biobank Selection. The Committee shall, in accordance with its mandate, inter alia: ‘systematise and discuss fundamental... ethical and legal issues arising’, including issues of availability, consent, privacy and also ‘commercial exploitation of the material or information/knowledge to which the material gives rise’. The committee shall deliver its opinion by the end of this year. In 1999, the State Institute for Public Health itself asked the Department to investigate the principal aspects of cooperation with commercial companies, and the Institute is now also represented in those selections. Public health is also understood to mean that, before the selection is closed and followed up, agreements are not to be concluded with stakeholders moving into the ethical and legal grey areas to be investigated. Of course, it has been suggested that any preliminary investigation into agreements to provide funding for the project should be based on and be within the concessional conditions. In addition, I would like to draw attention to a legislative proposal that is now under consideration in Stortinget, and that includes, among other things. concerns the same issues. This applies to Ot.prp. No 24 for 1999-2000, om law amending Law No 9 February 1973 6 on transplantation... etc., which, if the Storting joins it, will prohibit the purchase and sale of biological material as such, including blood, for financial gain. So it's not delivered biological material, and it's not as it said in that newspaper essay: ‘Personal and private data on 100,000 Norwegian women and their children may be sent to foreign pharmaceutical manufacturers.’;» A legislative proposal has already been submitted to the Stortinget, which severely limits the potential for the commercial sale of biological material, and it also reduces a sample that has been entrusted with the thorough examination of the ethical and legal aspects of the collection, storage and use of human biological material. I want to make sure that the State Institute for Public Health adheres to the guidelines I have referred to here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1533	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I have to admit that I reacted strongly and with great concern to this proposal in the VG, and I have understood that the Council of State has also done so. There is reason to stress that there has been a significant disagreement about the value of money, the ethical issues and the privacy of this project. The right-hand side initially had pretty big concerns with that just for that reason. It is, therefore, reassuring to hear that no material has been delivered, and that it is not as it said in the paper. I am also pleased that this Biobank Committee, mentioned by the Minister of Health, will address the specific problems that we are dealing with, namely this with privacy, that with the consent and commercial exploitation of the material. We also, I understand, have an opportunity to discuss this in the treatment of the odelstingsproposition mentioned by the Minister of Health, Ot.prp. No 24, to look at just this by prohibiting the purchase and sale of biological material.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1550	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1556	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘UiTø and RiTø have been pioneers in health cooperation in North-West Russia. In the distribution of 10 million. expenditure on health projects in the Barents region is allocated to the environment in North Norway and Tromsø very small proportion of the funds. The part of the country is very poorly represented in the sample of funds allocated. How will the Council of State ensure that those environments experienced in cooperation and geographical association with the Barents region are included in the allocation process of funds for health projects in the Barents region?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1565	Let me first give tribute to the University of Tromsø and the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, which for many years has shown a great commitment and a great effort for health cooperation between North-West Russia and Norway. In particular, cooperation with Arkhangelsk has been close and effective, and it has produced good results. As regards the four-year cooperation programme for health in the Barents region, this was adopted by the Barents Council in 1999. It is important to stress that this is not a general pot for the allocation of funds for health cooperation with Russia. The allocation of funds through the health programme takes place in accordance with fully specified frameworks, as provided for in the Decision of the Barents Council. This means that financial support can be provided to projects falling under one or more of the five priority areas, such as: Infectiveness, mother/child issues and lifestyle. In addition, projects must refer geographically to the Murmansk, Arkhangelsk and Karelen counties. The allocation of funds must therefore take into account a reasonable distribution of funds between the different areas of activity and geographical areas. It is also important to stress that this is a health programme with practical objectives. Therefore, pure research projects are initially excluded. At the last allocation round, many of the project applications from Tromsø were largely research-oriented. The main focus of the applications from Tromsø has also been on only one of the five areas under the programme and one of the geographical areas. We have therefore asked several applicants from Tromsø to come back with adjusted applications to get the projects more in line with the health programme's intentions. The ministry is also in conversation with the Tromsø environment to discuss how they can improve the grant rate at the spring award round. So to the process of distributing the funds. It is government funds that are distributed and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health takes the final decision. The Ministry has appointed an advisory committee with representatives of the underlying trade unions, one representative of the heads of state health in Northern Norway and one representative of the Barents Secretariat in the Church. The Ministry has not seen it as natural that the large applicant communities, such as The WHO, the Tromsø Environment, the International Tuberculosis Associations, Norwegian Folkehelp and the Church Hospital were to be directly represented in the Committee. It has been suggested that the Committee should primarily have representatives from state agencies with broad expertise and experience in health cooperation with Russia. The Committee proposes which professional bodies, institutions and hospitals should comment on the project applications. Very many applications have been sent to institutions and hospitals in North Norway for evaluation in this process. I believe that in this way we provide an objective and qualitative assessment of applications for the health programme, carried out by broad professional expertise in the field of health. It is hardly desirable to participate from the large applicant communities in the distribution process itself, but we will be in dialogue with the environment in Tromsø on how the health programme can be an optimal instrument for effective health cooperation in the Barents region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1576	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What this is about is a four-year cooperation programme for health in the Barents region. The centre of gravity of health and medicine in North Norway is in Tromsø. Both the University of Tromsø and RiTø established early close professional contacts with Northwest Russia. You can, among other things: mentioned success project as the establishment of heart surgery in Arkhangelsk, and that several hospitals in North-West Russia are equipped with used but good equipment from RiTø and UiTø. So the question of being represented in the committee that is to allocate funds. The Tromsø environment has the largest and heaviest project funds, and a disappearing small part of the total pot has been allocated this year. My question is: does the Council of State think it is right to want the university environment in Tromsø as a future actor in cooperation projects to exclude them from the possibility of joining the committee to allocate funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1585	I agree that the Tromsø environment has not come out of the last round of allocations, and I also agree with the representative Nymo that such a heavy professional environment should be an important partner in this cooperation. We've already agreed on a meeting with the Tromsø community on 8 March to discuss how you can achieve it in view of the future process around this. I have to insist that I think it is appropriate for all parties that the environments which are heavy on the applicant side of the project funds should not be in those bodies that give decisive advice on the outcome of the applications. It'll create a question of stability, etc., which I don't think you're worthy of. But, as I said, we need to have a dialogue with the environment to try to get an even better anchor in the Tromsø environment for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1593	This question, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Health, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1596	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘In many municipalities it is necessary for doctors to use taxis on home visits. Until December 31, 1999, the practice was that local taxis sent invoices directly to the social security office. It has now been changed that the individual doctor settles directly for each journey with the driver and then gets the amount refunded from the social security office. In some municipalities, this represents a cost of up to NOK 30000 per month. This constitutes large sums for the individual doctor. Does the Council of State see this as a problem, and what will the Council of State do to change practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1605	Shots by health professionals belong to my area of responsibility. I would therefore like to answer the question from the representative of Bastisen. Public health benefits cover travel expenses for research or treatment. If, because of his state of health, the patient is unable to meet in the hospital or the medical office, the doctor who is travelling to provide examination or treatment at the home of the patient has the right to proof from the public interest. Reimbursement is calculated on the basis of regulations for domestic travel for the account of the State. According to current rules, people's rights only cover proof of travel for the cheapest way of travel. If the doctor has had more necessary cloud expenditure, he or she has the right to have the expenditure covered by the bill. It is not right, as the representative Bastesen says, that until this year the social security policy has been that the taxi owners have sent a bill to the local social security office. Since 1994, the guidelines have been such that the driver’s costs are to be reported between the individual doctor and the social security office. Derogations have been made for lichens which before 1994 had direct indications between the social security office and taxi owners. After 1994, it is no longer possible to conclude such agreements for the direct respondent. It was usually also before 1994 that the cost of taxis on home visits was settled directly between the doctor and the social security office. The background to this practice is that the social security office should be able to see the collection of both the bill of use of the taxi and its doctor’s demand for reimbursement for the visit. The inspection work will be difficult if the bill for train costs is not provided with the doctor’s information. It is a goal to limit its use by taxis where use is unnecessary. Drose is a valuable means of transport in relation to the use of your own car. In some cases, the doctor may have large costs for taxis. A solution to this problem may be that the doctor and the taxi owner make an agreement to pay when the doctor receives a social security declaration. I would also like to stress that the medical service is a municipal responsibility, and that the municipality must support the implementation of this service. This means that the municipality must also be involved in resolving problems that the doctors had with the medical care, including problems related to liquidity due to transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1622	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I register that the system to which it refers has existed since 1994. The contact I have received is from 31 December 1999, so there must be a local scheme they have had in that municipality, as this applies to the municipalities in the districts. Governments point out that the gunshots of doctors are to be done in the cheapest way. However, some doctors have started using a private car for medical care. There have been cases where doctors have resigned at death when they have used their private car to save money on taxi use. Is it a desirable development for doctors to use their private car while on duty? They may lose their lives because they are too tired.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1629	It is a wish that the people's fear of spending also on travel goods is covered by certain rules. It has to do with ever-increasing expenditure within its budget. But the geography and transport in this country are so different that it's just opening up here that the one who has the most necessary skyscrapers has the right to cover the expenses after billing. When it comes to the liquidity problem that Bastesen here points to, and which he himself says is also a local matter, my recommendation is that it should be addressed with the municipality in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1639	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘We are likely to be at the threshold of finding cause and treatment of serious diseases through genetic engineering. In many countries, the preparation of genetic banks is under way, which may provide the basis for new, effective procedures, but also raise data protection issues, the use of genetic material, etc. The pharmaceutical industry is likely to be of great interest for both economic and non-profit reasons. What initiatives have been or are planned to allow Norway to participate in this work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1648	Initially, I would like to say that I am concerned with the importance of research that could lead to the development of new possibilities for the treatment of diseases, the development of better possibilities for the diagnosis and development of new drugs. In my view, it is important to give priority to building up Norwegian gene therapy competences as one of several measures to strengthen the provision of healthcare to patients with severe disease. This build-up is already under way through a five-year development plan for the period 1999-2003, presented to the St.prp Stortinget. No 61 for 1997-98, About the National Cancer Plan and Plan for Equipment Investment in Norwegian Hospitals. The Government proposed to strengthen and further develop the genetic engineering competence at regional hospital level in both basic and clinical research on genetic therapy for cancer and other diseases. The size joined the government's proposal to spend $95 million. kr for gene therapy during the planned period. So the issues related to the creation of so-called gene banks. The ongoing international mapping of all human heritage will provide knowledge such as: may be useful in combating cancer development and providing opportunities for the treatment of genetic disease. However, the vast amount of knowledge provided by this survey raises a number of ethical, social and legal issues related to the application of knowledge. Other countries, including The United Kingdom and Sweden want to establish so-called biobanks, or gene banks, where tissue bits and medical patient information are stored. Many issues relating to the use of such biobanks are international and work is under way under the auspices of the Council of Europe in order to arrive at a common European regulatory framework. The government has taken this challenge and has reduced a sample to assess different aspects of the procurement, storage and use of human biological material. The selection shall include, inter alia: present and discuss in principle medical, ethical and legal issues relating to such biobanks. This includes, inter alia: questions about the availability of this material and the information and knowledge that the material gives rise to. These are different questions of consent, privacy, medical research and issues related to the commercial exploitation of the material and the information and knowledge that the material gives rise to. The selection shall also discuss relevant patent issues and the specific ethical issues related to the availability of fertilised eggs. The committee has been asked to decide on the legal measures necessary in this area and may propose draft legislative regulation. The director of the selection is Dr. with. Magne Roland. The selection is wide-ranging, with people with competence in research, privacy, pharmaceuticals and industry. The committee also has persons with the competence to assess ethical and human rights issues. Patient organisations are represented, as are the relevant public bodies. The committee shall deliver its opinion by 1 January 2001. I would also like to mention that these questions relating to biobanks are now also being investigated in Sweden and Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1665	I thank you for a satisfactory answer. My purpose with this question was to get to know the government's planned handling of the matter – I have then received it – and not necessarily the many and complicated questions that this travels. The case travels a number of dilemmas linked to, among other things. privacy, who should receive information, who should benefit financially from it, who should have access to research results, etc., patent law as well. The major challenge lies in the fact that the scientific evidence we already have shows that the genes provide us with access to many serious diseases, such as: cancer, cardiovascular and blood pressure diseases and asthma. My supplementary question is this: does the Minister of Health see any possibility of shielding our future research in this area from purely profit-based interests while at the same time being able to safeguard privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1674	It is a very central, big and difficult question asked by the representative Kristoffersen. I'm glad he's making it, because I have as my starting point that it must be possible on the one hand to use new knowledge that is suitable for saving lives and healing disease, while at the same time respecting human dignity and preventing commercial exploitation across the common human interests. I think it has to be done partly through a national process, which we have started now, and partly through international cooperation, with which we are active, among other things. in the Council of Europe, to ensure that the guidelines we seek to develop nationally also have an international link. If not, there will be a rapid trend towards commercial markets across what the authorities actually want. We will continue to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1683	I will be asked by the State Council of the Ministry of Oil and Energy the following questions: 'Since 1991, there has been a disembarkation of net rents in the event of withdrawal of power in the production area. For subscribers in production areas, this leads to high additional costs. Ullensvang Hotel receives an additional cost of 75 000 kroner per person. years. This is how the tariff is practised, resulting in local off-takes getting the right central network costs for more power being taken out. This without the use of the central network as a whole. Would the Council of State act as a matter of urgency to change the tariff?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1692	The Government emphasises the regional importance of the transmission of electricity, and underlined that consideration in the submission of the energy notification. The interests of districts are both to ensure the benefits of power consumption in the vicinity of production, and to align transmission tariffs between areas with different population bases and different geographical conditions. The currently existing tariff system is based on a general regulatory framework and is therefore applied in all networks. General rules such as the excise system may, in some cases, have unintended effects. There has been considerable disagreement about tariffing power in production lines, especially with regard to the distribution of the central network tariff. In 1995, a number of principal cases were brought before the NVE. There was still considerable disagreement following the decision of the NVE, and the cases were therefore brought before the ministry. The Ministry took decisions in these cases on 25 March 1999. The Ministry considered that the conditions for withdrawal of power in production strips had to be improved. As a solution to the complaints cases, the Ministry drew up a distribution model which led to a reduction in central network costs for power withdrawals in production lines. As a follow-up to our decision, the Ministry will now ask the NVE to incorporate the principles into a regulation. With effect from 1 January 1998, point-to-point energy links were introduced into the central network. It is a change that means that the energy link more reflects the actual load on the grid. Inputs or withdrawals that will relieve the central network will have a negative energy link and thus be credited. In most cases, withdrawals from power in manufacturing areas will relieve the central network, and they will therefore be rewarded for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1705	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm going to be honest and give the council the right idea that this is complicated, but it's also so that it's acted unfairly. I understand that the Council of State is now in a position to find a more equitable system so that we don't get a look-up like this, where a regular subscriber in the vicinity of a power station gets a central network cost of $2,200 for something that he never uses. It is an old claimed system in Norway that one has to pay for it, but one also has to pay to have the possibility to use the central network in some cases if necessary. I'm glad that the Council of State is now saying this is going to be cleaned up, and then we're going to hope that the new system becomes more fair than we've had at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1714	The representative of Opseth is quite right that these are very complex issues, where the composition of the central network tariff can also have some unintended effects. It is composed of four different segments of the tariff to work together, and there are some effects related to what has been unfortunate up through the 1990s. Our decision of March last year was part of reducing the unintended and unfortunate effect of paying local calls for a central network cost that is not imposed on the central network. Our goal is to get a fairer system. So we're going to drop the decision that was made in March in a regulation. We have also warned in the Energy Communication that problems relating to more correct signals for producers and consumers need to be considered locally, and that a geographical differentiation is being assessed and implemented in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1724	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «In the Østerdalen the hunters have received strong competition from predators. The 18 wolves in the area probably eat the entire annual production of elk. This shows preliminary results from the University of Hedmark. Does the Council of State see this problem, and what will the Council of State possibly do with it?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1733	Major predators form an important part of the biodiversity of Norway. Deer game is the natural and most important prey of the large predators. The Wildlife Act's objective paragraph states that wild game production can be harvested for the benefit of agricultural and outdoor activities, within a framework in which species resources in nature are preserved. I'm familiar with the calculations that show that the wolf in Hedmark takes a number of moose that account for the order of 3 pst. the number of persons taxed annually by hunting in the county. However, I am aware that some fighters are more affected than others, and I would therefore like to look into possible balancing mechanisms. The Ministry has already started discussions, including: Norskog and Norway’s Forest Geyser Association with a view to following up these issues in an appropriate manner. In conclusion, I would like to point out that in the Questionnaire on 3 March 1999, I stated that it is not in accordance with either national or international objectives to optimise individual populations at the expense of other species of game. I still believe that this is a good guide for species management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1744	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was a good and positive answer by looking into this issue. The fact that we are talking about large areas is clear. According to an article from Norwegian Farmers’ and Small Farmers’ Teams, it is equivalent to 600 000 daa, so there are many who are affected by this. And many people are affected by the fact that there is no elbow, you lose the possibility of recreation, you lose the opportunity to harvest nature – there are huge resources that are being lost, both in the form of meat and other values – and you lose the opportunity to sell hunting rights. Furthermore, biodiversity is lost by the fact that some animal groups, now I think of moose and deer, are lost at the expense of predators. The hunters dare not join in hunting because they may lose their elk dog. A moose dog costs from 4000 to 10,000 kroner as a puppy, and more as a hunting prize. So there are great values that are at stake here, and I hope that the Minister for the Environment will address this matter, as she promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1753	As I said in my first answer, this is a problem we are already looking at, mainly because we see that some fighters are more affected than others. It is important for example: to look at the possibility of achieving a balancing mechanism. At the same time, I would like to stress what is stated in the wild law, namely that game production can be harvested for the benefit of agriculture and outdoors as long as it takes place within a framework where species wealth in nature is preserved. That is exactly what is our big challenge in predatory game policy – that we have a shared goal, where, on the one hand, we should have viable populations of the large predators, and, on the other hand, we should be able to use the expanse not only for grazing sheep and pure, but also for other nutritional benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1763	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The County of Hedmark is informed that the number of wolf flocks and stationary pairs indicates that the decision on 8-10 wolf flocks will be reached during the spring. As the wolf population has increased by 25-30 pst. per 1 % This implies that action needs to be taken now. Is the Council of State willing to take out wolf flocks in Great Elvdal and Rendalen, where is the conflict between predators and the interests of the field industry, that is, grazing animals and deer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1772	In the treatment of the 1997 report of wild game, the majority of the population argued that up to now, each individual of the wolf must have a strict protection. It was noted that the Norwegian and Swedish authorities have a common objective of establishing at least eight to ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. Both Norwegian and Swedish authorities use the term ‘family group’ to describe stock development and target achievement in wolf management. A family group is two adult individuals – male and female – who are with puppies. Both winter 1997-1998 and winter 1998-1999, six family groups of wolves were detected in Scandinavia. On the basis of preliminary reports of the wolf population up to the beginning of February, the Hedmark University has produced a report showing that six family groups, a flock without a pair of conductors and five or six re-marking pairs have been registered in South Scandinavia. The report underlines that further tracing is required before final conclusions can be drawn for the winter 1999-2000 registrations. This means that the wolf population is reaching a level that requires different administrative practices. This may include, inter alia: involve the increased use of littering as an instrument in specified areas. As the representative is aware, the question of the killing of the wolf in the municipality of Stor- Elvdal has been assessed in the legal system, but the State has not received any support in its interpretation of the law. I have chosen to appeal to this decision. In addition, changes in the game law will be promoted for Stortingen during the spring. As in previous years, the issue of breeding permits for sheep injuries during the grazing season will be considered on an ongoing basis. However, it is the government’s view that permanent establishment of family groups of wolves in the Great Elvdal and Rendalen municipalities is not desirable in the long term if one can meet the Stortinge’s objective in areas with lower conflicts compared to sheep on the outback. In the short term, I am busy reducing the damage as much as possible. I have therefore asked the Directorate for Nature Management, in cooperation with the municipalities concerned, to submit proposals for possible preventive measures for the 2000 grazing season.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1787	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret positively. But action is urgent now, it is now that there are good tracking conditions. And I'm sorry to say that, but I actually trust more in local knowledge than in the Directorate of Nature Management. The stock target of eight to ten wolf flocks has already been reached. The predators of the Great Elvdal and Rendalen destroy everything called pasture and small game hunting. The game law needs to be amended to allow predators to be removed under threat of attack. Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen already have the strain with the other predator species such as bear, yerv, gaupe and king eagle. Is it not true that individual municipalities and areas should be burdened with everything? Can the Council of State now envisage delegating the permit authority to the local residents – they know best? And in addition, Stor-Elvdal and Rendalen are located outside the area that is intended for wolf management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1796	I agree with the representative that action is urgent, and that is also why this government spends more money in the field of deforestation than ever before. That's also why we now have a great tracking on snow to get the most knowledge of how many wolves we have, and we're already working with the municipalities to prepare how we're going to get through the next grazing season in the best possible way. We also agree that changes to the game law are needed. That is why I have sent such a proposal to the hearing, and it comes to the Stortinget in ours. In the case of delegating local breeding authorisation authority, it may be necessary to do so within two frameworks. One is that we still have to have a national system to ensure that we have a population that is large enough to match the stock target. That means that such a delegation can't happen until you're sure of it. The other one is of course that it is important that you also have a slightly comprehensive assessment of where the conflict potential is greater, so that we do not risk being granted too many killing permits at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1808	This question, from the representative Jan Johnsen to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1811	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: «Norwegian Children's Museum shall be opened in Stavanger December 2000. The museum has received large grants from the municipality of Stavanger and from sponsors, but still lacks funds for start-up. There is a request for support from the Cultural Council and Norwegian Museum Development, but they have not yet heard anything from them. The Norwegian Children's Museum will be the only one in its kind in Scandinavia. Can the Council of State ensure that this ‘birth’ is as painless as possible and that the ‘child’ is given the ‘birth aid’ it deserves?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1820	As the representative was inside, the Barn Museum on the Silver Mountains in Stavanger is under planning and is scheduled to be opened in December this year. The museum has applied for financial support from both Norwegian Cultural Council and Norwegian Museum Development. Let me first say that the increased attention that we see about children and the growing-up conditions of children is joyous. In this case, the Culture Council received an application from the Children’s Museum for the establishment of the museum within the deadline for application in 2000, i.e. before 1 December 1999. The Culture Council notes that the first Council meeting dealing with applications received for the year 2000 was added to 21-22 March, and the matter will be submitted to the Council at that meeting. The children's museum also applied to Norwegian museum development in November for a seminar grant. Norwegian museum development manages state funding for development measures for museums in Norway. These means shall be used for actions aimed either at the whole sector of the museum, at larger groups of museums or with significant transfer value to other museums. There are many museums in the country working with children and childhood, and Norwegian Museum Development therefore recommended that a possible seminar should be organised in cooperation with Childhood Research in networks, coordinated by the Norwegian Folkemuseum. However, that proposal was not followed up by the museum. In my opinion, the request from the Barn Museum seems to be on the side of the objective of the project funds made available by the Norwegian Museum Development. Consequently, subsidies from there can hardly be taken into account. At state level, the Norwegian Cultural Council appears to be the appropriate addressee for the application for grants of the kind covered. The Culture Council takes its decisions in individual cases on the basis of its own autonomy, cultural and artistic discretion. The administration of the Council will therefore normally prepare the matter and provide the necessary professional assessment before the application is finalised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1835	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I felt was positive. What's important in this case is that this is the first children's museum in Norway and the only thing in its kind in Scandinavia. I think it's going to have a huge impact on the child culture that the government itself has put a lot of emphasis on. I sincerely hope that real pressure will be put on the Norwegian Cultural Council, so that the museum will have the means to get started. It would be sad if this museum were to delay its opening because we can't get enough money in place. Had it been about funds for us adults, we had managed to get them, but in the case of children, we obviously have a slightly bigger problem. I hope the minister can say that there will be pressure, so that the children get the museum structure that these people have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1846	Allow me to confirm that it has been applied for within the deadline, and that the Culture Council will be the correct address for any state aid amount. Having said that, I would also like to say that the Council of Culture, on the basis of guidelines given by the Stortinget, will take its decisions in individual cases on the basis of independent cultural and artistic discretion. Therefore, it is not natural for the Ministry of Culture to take the lead in the process that is taking place in the Council of Culture in relation to the processing of applications, and I therefore do not want to in any way pre-empt what will be the result of the Council of Culture's treatment. It will be subject to a normal application procedure in the Council based on the guidelines given by the Government and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1856	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Culture, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1859	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy: «Support for Norwegian film production is very large in relation to, inter alia, Sweden, which covers a maximum of 80 pst. of the costs, Denmark 50 pst. In fact, subsidies for production have exceeded the cost of the film. In addition, when you look at how much this is going to be in subsidizing per cent. One has to wonder whether this is the proper use of cultural resources. Do the Councils agree with this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1868	I have to say that the representative Bredvold seems to give a somewhat misleading description of the situation of film production in Norway. Let me first explain briefly what is the situation in Denmark and Sweden. Denmark has two different film support schemes. In one scheme, there is no ceiling on public support, which means that the state can theoretically contribute up to 100 pst. the cost of a film. The second system operates in such a way that the country automatically contributes 60 pst. of the costs. In Sweden, there are many actors who contribute funds to film production: the state, the broadcasters and the cinema owners, as well as the film producers themselves. The aid scheme in Sweden is designed as an agreement between these operators. The current agreement lays down a rule that says that a maximum of 50 pst. of the State funds may be used for cinematographic production. Overall, the aid may amount to 80 pst. the cost of a film. In Norway, average aid in the years 1994 to 1997 has been 71pst. To characterise it as “very large” in relation to e.g. Denmark, I think it's a bit exaggerated. However, it is true that there have been isolated cases where a film has received more support than it has cost to produce. In part, it is attributable to the reward function inherent in the special scheme called ticket aid. I agree that the system, as it works today, can in some cases work too generously. As the representative of Bredvold is familiar with, it is among other things. in recognition of the initiative of the Government in 1998 to review all aid schemes in the field of film. This review will address all support schemes in this area. One of the objectives is to promote the more cost-effective production of high-quality films that can reach the widest possible audience. A first presentation of conclusions will be presented to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget. As the representative Bredvold understands, I do not entirely agree that it is wrong to use funds to support Norwegian film. Film is an important form of artistic expression, and public support is essential for maintaining a Norwegian film production. And at a time when many languages are under great pressure, it is also important to understand the significance of the film for Norwegian language and culture. No one other than Norwegian filmmakers will be based on Norwegian reality and culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1883	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At least she agrees with the undersigned that there have been isolated cases where films have received more support than they have cost to produce. Therefore, I register that the Council of State admits that in some cases the state may be too generous. And that's where the nucleus of my question lies. It should and must be a certain economic risk, so that not everyone can produce films in order for us to have so-called cultural diversity. On the other hand, the fact that the Council of State and the signatories agree that we need films, and that films are important for Norwegian language and culture, there is no doubt about it. In the case of state aid for film production in Sweden, it is 50 pst, as I mentioned in my main question. The Progress Party has no objections to other stakeholders being involved in financing film production. What's interesting for the individual taxpayer is how much the state contributes. It is also worth noting the number of tickets sold when, for example. Swedish films are shown on Norwegian cinematic dishes. The Swedish films often have a much higher viewing number. This must also give us a clue as to what people want to see – but this is another debate. Otherwise, I hope that in Sweden and Denmark, too, everyone who wants to produce a film does not receive financial support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1894	What I tried to find in my answer is that the picture is somewhat different and much more nuanced than the representative of Bredvold put up in his question. There are films that receive more support than the actual cost of production. My answer to whether it is acceptable or not is: No, it is not acceptable. But there are also Norwegian films that actually have State aid that amounts to no more than NOK 21 per person. sold tickets. The average is NOK 132 per person. sold tickets. This is not alarming in relation to the aid schemes in Denmark and Sweden. The review launched by the Government in 1998 has just as its starting point that we should be able to maintain and further develop a Norwegian film production and state support linked to it, but at the same time we should look at how this can be done more cost-effectively and how to reach a wider audience. As I was aware, the first review of the report will be submitted to the Stortinget in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-23.ana.ud1940e1923	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time. That being the case, it is no. 1 over. According to the decision at the beginning of the meeting today, the Storting is now suspending its negotiations and the meeting will be resumed at 9 p.m. 19.30 for the examination of cases No. Two and three.
