ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e29	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e34	I suggest Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e39	Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and they are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting. The representative of John I. Alvheim will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e44	On behalf of the representative Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I propose the establishment of new bed places in medical departments in Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e70	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – State Council Jon Lilletun, – Minister of State Marit Arnstad, – Minister of State Åslaug Marie Haga The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the questionnaire. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e85	I have a question to Arnstad State Council. In the debate on enabling gas power to be built with the best available technology, such as: Natural force has applied, rarely hears what opponents are for. Both the energy distribution and the government's own energy message show that we use more electricity than we produce in a normal year. This footprint will grow in the years to come. I'm not sure anyone wants to turn off the stream. In other words, the opponents of gas power in Norway are followers of highly impurityful imports. In NVE's concession to Naturkraft AS it's called: ‘If Norwegian gas power is introduced, the immediate effect therefore becomes that production of coal and oil power is running out of the same production. The environmental impact of this is roughly halved in CO2 emissions’. SFT and SINTEF are some of these conclusions. So it's more impregnable to say no to the construction of gas power than to say yes. I want to ask the Council of State if there are trade unions in Norway that claim that the total emissions of CO2 will rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e97	Let me first say that in the spontaneous question hour a month ago, we had an exchange of views on the use of natural gas in Norway, where we concluded that there is really no party against the use of natural gas in Norway, nor for power generation. What we are now discussing is what environmental conditions such a type of production is going to take place. The government has expressed its view of it through the concessions given – before our time – by the Energy Act, and the decisions taken on emissions permit under the Pollution Act. Those decisions were confirmed in June last year and are intended to relate to an international quota regime on the day of its establishment. In the period before that, i.e. the next ten years, it has to be regulated by the pollution law and then by a 90 pst reduction. That is the environmental framework we believe from the Government should be the basis for gas power. I have to say that I am a little surprised at the seemingly steep attitude of the Labour Party in this matter. After all, the Labour Party also wants the pollution law to apply. As long as one does not have an international quota regime, there must be some content in it when the pollution law actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e106	One can probably discuss in the longest who is the steepest in this case. What's most interesting about this answer, though, is that I don't get an answer to my question. I asked if there is a professional body in Norway that claims that the total CO2 emissions will rise if one builds gas power plants in Norway today. I myself quoted from NVE's concession. SFT and SINTEF have concluded these conclusions, i.e. if one builds gas power plants in Norway today, the total emissions in the Nordic region will fall. On the basis of this, I would like to repeat my question: is there a professional body in Norway that claims that CO2 emissions will rise if a gas plant is built in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e111	Firstly, I have seen that the Workers' Party is still repeating an opinion from the NVE that will focus on 2 million. tonnes of CO2. It is an opinion of the NVE that came in connection with the concession under the Energy Act in 1997. That statement is a little outdated for the simple reason that after that we have obtained an international climate agreement. Today one can say that, as far as I can see, both SFT and NVE, gas power plants believe that they can be right, but within an international climate regime. To the extent that they say that it can have an international positive impact on environmental emissions, they say that it explicitly assumes that coal power generation is shut down and that demand does not increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e116	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e119	Like the representative, Mr Akselsen, I have to say that Arnstad does not answer the question. The question, which has now been asked twice, is whether there are some professional environments in Norway that state that CO2 emissions will rise if we build gas power plants in Norway. As the Akssen has pointed out, both SFT, NVE and SINTEF demonstrate through their calculations that European greenhouse gas emissions will decline if we build gas power plants in Norway. That's what must be the goal. The aim must be to bring down the total greenhouse gas emissions, not to be able to compete with our noble and clean flag in Norway while importing more and more polluting coal power from Denmark, as the Arnstad State Council's strategy is. So I'm going to ask Arnstad to answer the question: can she refer to a single professional environment that demonstrates that the total greenhouse gas emissions will rise if we build gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e124	As I said in my previous answer, all the trade unions, as far as I have seen, mention the emissions of greenhouse gases and the production of gas in connection with an established quota system. There is none of them, as far as I can see, that can be taken into account in order for one to emit CO2 free of charge and free of charge for 10 years to come, until one has an international quota regime. None of them can, as far as I've seen, receive income for it, because then they would explicitly assume that one here eliminates coal power generation, and that one does not get an increase in demand, which is probably unlikely in a free Nordic power market. They put it in context with an international quota system, and that is precisely what the government has done in its appeals to the pollution law. We have said that it should be seen in the context of an international quota system. The question is, what's going to happen in the ten years before that? We have said that then it must be regulated by the pollution law. That's what SFT said. They have also said that if you have a national quota system, it can be an alternative – when it is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e130	Karita Bekkemelm Orheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e133	Will the Council confirm that Norway is today an importer of highly polluting coal power? I also want to ask if it's not time for the government to take over the reality that we're actually in. In fact, the countries that have put gas power into operation have fallen in more polluting energy production. What is the national situation is that there is no match between our national production and our consumption. Norway is constantly increasing its consumption of polluting coal power. The government has not provided any measures that have reversed this trend nationally. I believe that the construction of gas power plants has become a symbolic matter. Should not the Government now set aside the symbol policy and act in an environmentally sound manner?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e138	I would like to confirm very much that we are part of a Nordic power market. It was the Workers' Party and the Right Seas that opened up in 1996. We're exchanging force across the borders. For example, we exchange information. hydropower against thermal power from Denmark. We exchange between Sweden and Norway. I would like to admit that we have a tighter force balance than what we have had in the past. We had an overcapacity in the Norwegian system in the 1980s. So I'd like to admit that. The actual situation this year is that we have a power export, but corrected for temperature I agree that the power balance is tighter. But what we're now discussing is not whether we're going to use natural gas or not. We would like to use natural gas for power generation for my part. But under what environmental conditions? That's where I think the Workers' Party is now going from skirmish to skirmish. The working party was very satisfied with SFT's emissions permit. It is almost identical to the Government's appeal decision. If this is the case that the Workers' Party now believes that it should be free to release what one wants of CO2 for ten years to come until one gets an international regime, I believe that the Workers' Party has turned around at all points in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e146	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e149	SV and the Government agree that building an old-fashioned, polluting gas power plant now is what is environmentally worst. In the long term, CO2 emissions will become the largest. When you hear the debate, it sounds as if our situation is now almost fateful and not dependent on political decisions at all. Can the Council of States confirm that if we are to achieve our CO2 reduction targets, is it actually dependent on Norway now taking the right decisions, which will eventually reduce CO2 emissions? And can she confirm again that it is unlikely that animals, polluting gas power from Norway will compete out much cheaper, even more polluting coal power from Denmark or other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e154	Yes, it is my clear view that all countries that have committed themselves to the Kyoto Protocol must take responsibility for their own CO2 emissions. This applies to Norway in relation to our energy production, and also to Denmark in relation to their coal power production. We must take that responsibility for each other, but also for each other. It is also my opinion that what we are now seeing is not three gas power plants in Norway, for which it is requested. What we are now seeing is that there are reports of five gas plants in Norway. They in themselves account for emissions well over 7 million. tonnes. That's 50 pst. of the total emissions from fishing, shipping and transport. It is clear that we need to assess the environmental framework we set around such production, and it is my sincere opinion that we must also take that responsibility over the ten years until an international climate agreement is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e161	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e164	I have a question to the Council of State Lilletun, who in the Questionnaire a week ago informed me that the Government would not oppose the petitions of mosques in Norway. He suggested that it was a sort of premise that it should only happen once every Friday from each mosque. Now it turns out that, among other things. understands Khadim Hussain in a belief society in Drammen, according to Drammen's Official Journal last Friday, saying: "We see it as an obligation within our religion with prayers five times a day." So that's the principle of five beans per. the day from all mosques, of which there is a growing number in Norway, which is a question of this kind. The Government will provide the necessary legislation or by any other means to ensure that there is no access to prayers from mosques, including: to preserve Norwegian tradition and culture based on Christian values?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e178	As well in the Constitution as in the law on trust societies, the right to free exercise of religion is established in line with the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 9 of the Convention provides: ‘The freedom to express their religion or belief shall be subject only to such restrictions as are prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society for reasons of public security, for the protection of public order, health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.’;» Even if freedom is there, it is said that it must be balanced against other matters permitted by law. For natural reasons, there are no national guidelines governing the question of beans. As I see it, it's natural that prayers are allowed in connection with main collections, e.g. Friday prayers. This is both to respect international conventions on religious freedom and freedom of expression and to adapt it to Norwegian culture, Norwegian tradition. Then I think it's quite possible for local authorities, who are the ones who are going to decide this, to adapt it in a way that says that in connection with the main assembly one Friday it will be granted permission, but not permission other than that. It must also be adapted if it is in a residential area, if it is in connection with a hospital, a hospital, etc. There will be something about the volume, etc. to do. I think here must have two thoughts in my head at once: one is freedom of religion and freedom of speech, and the other is that there must be no fuss over the secret of the law that I quoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e190	If this were about freedom of religion and freedom of expression, it would probably be the case that you had the right to exercise that way five times a day. Of course, when the reason is religious freedom, it is not possible to distinguish the number of times if this is religious practice. Is it really the case that the Lilletun Council sees this as a noise problem to be decided by local authorities, based on a kind of sound volume and location? Doesn't the government see how it's impossible to say no to five times per. the day for all mosques if you first start saying yes to something? Does this government not see any reason to preserve Norway with the traditions and culture we have, and say no to this by providing legislation, to which the Council of State itself said it is full access? Is it really the case that this government is agreeing to this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e202	I'm somewhat surprised by this problem, because in the eyes of this government and in the eyes of this council, it's through freedom of expression and religious freedom that one gives good opportunity to the institutions that have established our culture and that carry on our culture. I have such confidence in the Christian threat and in what is the basis of our Christian culture, that it tolerates well that one gets right a Muslim prayer once a week. It is also fully possible to have sound regulation in relation to the extent of such calls. This is the absolute basis of international conventions and religious freedom. Of course, we have had a preliminary work to look at just those issues. And I have clear more confidence that the Christian threat is actually able to survive – and expand – even if we once a week should right such a cry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e210	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e213	My question goes to the Energy Council Marit Arnstad. According to press conferences, the Council of State at the annual meeting in Nord-Trøndelag Centerparti has stated that she will promise several hundred million in government dollars for the development of environmentally friendly gas power technology. I have read carefully in the budget to see where the warning of this is, or where this political priority lies, but cannot see it. Rather, I see on the contrary that at Chapter 1830 post 50, Energy Research, it was during the fall, last year, the treatment of the 2000 budget was cut off in the Government's proposal. And my question is, when did the need arise to increase in this area with amounts that, as far as I understand, will represent something like 100 pst. increase in relation to what is now in the current year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e222	Can I recommend the representative Foss that he also read the newspapers carefully, because then he will see that it says in the evening post that we imagine the funds used from the turn of the year. This is because we are now in a review of a major reorganization dealing with the development of CO2-free gas power technology, but also dealing with other parts of the energy side, which may take a little longer. It is then our position that one should establish a development programme more or less in parallel with the oil technology programme and its development, called DEMO 2000, with which we so far have very positive experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e227	I can assure the Council that I also read the Evening Post very carefully. I'm actually doing the same with the Government's Energy Communication, which has a 20-year perspective. I cannot find this project or these perspectives described in one word in the Energy Communication submitted by the Government. I also record that in the last year's budget position, there are some parties – there is actually a majority – who say that, within the given allocation, it is important to give priority to research on CO2 clean-up. In that note, the government parties were not included. It emphasizes to me that this is a project that has been invented in a debate within the Central Party or in the Government's fight against the mass growth, and that it does not spring from the Government's view of the long-term need for energy research. As you know, the Energy Communication concerns a 20-year perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e232	It is true that the plans for a development programme for CO2-free gas power technology were not ready on the day of the energy notification. It is also true that it was not included in the budget in force this year. Nevertheless, those plans are under development. I am a little uncertain whether I should interpret the representative Foss there that he believes it would be an unfortunate thing to put funds and effort into that kind of research. The government considers it very positive and useful. We have also seen that we have received clear calls from several teams to address those questions more strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e237	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Akselsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e240	I am pleased that Arnstad has adopted the proposal that was adopted at the working party's group meeting in January on this issue. The working party has previously also been involved in research in this area, for example: through a technology fund, which the Bondevik government got removed after it was formed. But these are new thoughts from the Government that I of course share. It is neither in the energy message nor in the budget for this year. The reason I take this follow-up question was a plural comment in the current year's budget setting that said that one had to use the permissions that one had and increase the permissions in this area. Nevertheless, figures from the Swedish Research Council show that in 2000 the commitment to research at CO2-free gas power plants actually goes down in spite of the comments of a majority in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e247	I am pleased that the representative Aksens is pleased with our proposal for increased investment in this area. When I read his comments in the newspapers yesterday and today, I almost get the impression that he is a little tired because the government has proposed this, but I think it is nice that he confirms today that he is happy for it. It is good that the Workers' Party has also been involved in the same thoughts. As I said to the representative Foss, the idea is that this will be a bet from the turn of the year. In today's energy technology-related appropriations, the question of natural gas is limited. We have been informed by the department in the letter of award to the Research Council that the type of project within the framework should be prioritised, but the framework itself is scarce. This is not least because there are a wide range of other types of energy that deserve support — not least many of the new renewables.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e254	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e257	I have a question for the Arnstad Council, which has recently visited Saudi Arabia. I understand that the main purpose of the Council of State's visit was to discuss oil policy, and it is not so strange when the two largest producers of crude oil meet, and also to promote Norway's candidacy to the Security Council. I'm sure the Council of State has done this in an absolutely brilliant way. Now Saudi Arabia is a country where human rights are not centered. My question to the Council of State is, how did the Council of State address the human rights issues with its host there, and what kind of response did she get to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e264	As the representative himself emphasised, this was primarily a work visit related to the fact that both countries are large oil producers and have some common interests in the discussion on oil market developments and on other oil-related issues. But it's clear that when a traveler travels to a country like Saudi Arabia, I'm also clear that it's a country where there's an assault on both groups of people and individuals. That is why the issue of human rights is an obvious issue when you travel to a country like Saudi Arabia. The question of human rights was raised by my side during the visit to bilateral talks with the minister with whom I was visiting. In particular, it focused on the question of the possible signature by Saudi Arabia of the two UN conventions they have not yet signed, which they should have signed, and it was expressed a strong wish, a recommendation that, when Saudi Arabia is now a candidate for the UN Commission on Human Rights, it must mean that they put human rights issues on the agenda higher than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e272	That it was a work visit, it's okay, it's probably pretty much when the council is out, I assume. But it's set a standard for how to act when you meet countries with these kinds of problems. Is it true that Saudi Arabia, as an economic power, is protected from criticism? As far as I can understand, neither this visit nor visit to Saudi Arabia from other countries has led to this problem complex being put on the agenda in particular. Does the Council of State find it a problem that an economic power such as Saudi Arabia is being protected from criticism of very dramatic violations of human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e277	I'll be careful to say something about how much Saudi Arabia is actually being shielded or not. But when it comes to meeting these questions from the Norwegian Government, they are not screened. This is a question that was raised by the Government. We had contact with Amnesty before we left, and the questions we raised were well in line with what they asked us to travel to the Saudi authorities. It is also the case that, in future dialogue with the country, we will re-examine the questions. I feel that I do not have the prerequisites to say that they are well protected in relation to other countries, or what is being taken up by other countries, but at least I can assure the representative that from the Norwegian side these questions will be addressed in the bilateral dialogue ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e284	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e287	My question goes to Arnstad State Council. I think it's important that we remind each other that there is actually no new environmental party here at Stortinget, and what environmental movement means in the matter of gas power plants. Bellona, Nature and Youth, the Federation of Nature Conservation – yes, actually a pool of environmental trajectories – and also the minority in the Workers' Party believe that it is wrong to build highly impurising gas power plants. And then I think it's right for us to deepen the main argument to, among other things. the new Prime Minister’s candidate from the Workers’ Party and its environmental friends in the Right and the Advance Party, that one should stop importing highly impurising gas power. I would like to ask the Council of State to clarify this problem, not least in view of the fact that the Danish have phased out coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e296	The President had a feeling that this was a question to Stoltenberg, but since he is not in the position to answer, the Council of State gets Marit Arnstad to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e299	I will not take the aim of answering on behalf of Stoltenberg in this matter. But at least I can give a few considerations about the debate we have, relating to the Kyoto agreement, because that is one of the key elements here. The Kyoto agreement will mean that together we have to take responsibility for CO2 emissions, but also that each country itself has to take responsibility. For Denmark, this means that regardless of what happens to Norwegian energy production, they have to take responsibility for their own coal power production. This also means that Norway, in addition to what we do with other countries, has to take responsibility for thinking through the long-term choices we make in relation to our own energy production. I do not exclude the use of natural gas for power generation in the future, but we need to take seriously the debate on what environmental conditions this is going to take place. I have to say that I am truly surprised at the views of the Workers' Party on this point, especially when I see that the same Prime Minister's candidate, Stoltenberg, at the latest in today's Business Saturday, says that the SFT's emissions permit was ok. However, the SFT does not allow any free passengers in this system, nor in its decision. They say that there must be a regime until an established allowance system is established. That's what's my main point and the government's main point. It may not be possible for one to have free emissions for 10 years until an international allowance agreement is available. It is not sustainable for Norway as an environmental nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e306	That's another argument that's often made, and that's that one has to pave the way for new technology by building these old-fashioned gas power plants. If one builds e.g. Natural power plants will probably get a lower energy price, and thus a few more difficulties in realizing e.g.. impurity-free gas power plants. I would like to challenge the Council of State on this: Has this been discussed with those who have the other, really interesting projects on the gas power plant side?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e313	Let me first say that I have great faith in the development of technology in this area. And I really don't want to say that any of the technologies we see are better or worse than the others. I think that both what Statoil is working on, what Aker and what Hydro are working on, and also what we find at Kværner and ABB in this area, are interesting. But I think we have to admit that when you talk about putting technology in the back of an old-fashioned gas power plant, it only applies to one of the technologies. The other two must be installed from the first day off. This means that if one starts with old-fashioned gas power plants and then thinks that one should retrofit one, then one will give a competitive disadvantage to the other two technologies, which are also under development. There's no doubt about it. In addition, I believe that the cost of doing the action in ten years' time, when one has set up an old-fashioned power plant, will be greater, simply because the lifetime of the entire power plant has become shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e320	There will be follow-up questions – Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e323	I hope the Council of State is not trying to say that not everyone – at least not the Labour Party – is for the Kyoto agreement. It is clear that we are building everything we are going to do on the Kyoto agreement – within the framework that we also see that it can be built on gas power plants, because we are busy reducing imports of highly impurising coal power. The council itself is saying that it's going to be the situation for many years if we don't do anything. We have to do everything the Council of State can to do when it concerns bio and when it concerns renewable energy, but the energy message still shows that we will need more power in the years to come, so it will be imports of coal power. We are in this situation when we import highly impudent coal power, that we have the best technology. We use the technology at the gas power plants that are built on the base – we have about a hundred gas power stations on the base with this technology. Would it be so difficult to use it on land? It's less impurity than coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e330	I do not believe in any way that the Workers' Party is not engaged in the Kyoto Agreement and an international quota regime. I have noticed the long series of statements by not least the representative Stoltenberg on how positive the Kyoto agreement is in order to put a price on the pollution. What surprises me is the Workers' Party's hard drive right now, because we all know that the Kyoto agreement does not come into force until ten years from now. The question is, what regime should a regime have until then? The SFT has cancelled an emission permit under the pollution law and the pollution law will apply to the Workers' Party. What content will one then have in the next ten years? Then the government has taken an appeal decision that is more or less similar to the SFT's emissions permit. So the Workers' Party suddenly says that it's not good enough, and that's when I wonder: Does the Workers' Party really think it's going to be free for the next ten years? Should we establish free passengers, who do not have to pay for emissions of CO2 at all? It surprises me, because it seems to be in the Workers' Party's decision now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e340	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e343	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The size has dealt with the issue of the free principle in the library several times. It has always been rejected in Stortinget, the last time in 1996. That's why it's quite strange and alarming that this time it's a government of the Central Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party that is promoting the question again. The basic principle of libraries is that all access to information should be free of charge. This government has apparently been particularly concerned with small and medium-sized enterprises. The Council of State opens up the possibility that individuals, and in particular companies, who are asking for specific information services, should pay for these services. How will the Council of State defend the need for small businesses in the districts to pay for library services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e348	What I want to establish first of all is that the services we per. currently normally user within the library, remaining free of charge. We should not in any way think about the known and dear services in the direction of charging for them. But what is happening in the library area is that technology is creating completely new opportunities for material creation, and there are completely new perspectives for the services that the library can provide. Traditional services that small enterprises demand will, of course, remain free of charge. But there could be cases where, for example: an enterprise requires very special services that technology now opens up for the library to set up. We will often be in a situation where, for example: foreign databases shall be used and the library will have to pay to obtain the information. And in such situations, we don't think it's unreasonable that the demander contributes to the funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e353	I thank you for your answer. Many in the library environment are afraid of a free principle eroding when someone is now proposing to open the way for payment for certain services. Basic services shall remain free of charge, says the Council of State. But what is the definition of basic services in addition to lending books, and who should define what basic services are? Can the municipalities, as the owner of the libraries, even define these basic services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e358	Firstly, I have to make it clear that the proposals which have been discussed in St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000 on archives, libraries and museums, is in line with the recommendation of our professional body, the Library Authority. The proposed small adjustments will also bring the Norwegian system into line with the system in the other Nordic countries. And as I made clear in my first answer, there are special services developed for a single demand that could form the starting point for a paid service. To the extent that you want to carry out a task that will be available to many, and as many requests, we will not discuss payment at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e363	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e366	I have a question to the Council of State Lilletun. Over time, the country’s newspapers have announced that cannabis resin and other drugs are being sold in the vicinity of the school, in the schoolyard, even inside the school buildings. It is a fact that youth is a rare market for the placing on the market of just this type of substance. There doesn't seem to be any area anywhere in the country being adorned for it. But when sales take place inside the school building itself, there is no real reason not to stop the obscenity immediately. In a school where drug trafficking is almost obvious, it is also built up under a wide range of additional problems. I can mention theft, force, violence, bullying - the list is long. I assume that the Council of State agrees with the Progress Party that this development cannot be tolerated. What will the Council of State do to prevent progress from continuing, and to clean it up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e371	Of course, I agree with the representative Ursula Evje and the Progress Party that a hall of hashish, cork inside the school, in the creek or in the nearby area of the school cannot be accepted. It has to be turned on, and one has to use the tools that are available – and there is a tool available. What I still believe is the most important tool – and I hope that the representative Evje agrees with me – is that we are able to develop an exciting and good school. All research shows that to the extent that one is able to engage the students in participation, in participation, and that one is given a school that is exciting and challenging, the other problems — the interpersonal problems — will also decrease. I therefore believe that the most important thing I can do as a Minister of Education is to continue – engage in local development work, engage students in more participation in professional development and environmental work, and engage parents more strongly. A school where students, parents and teachers stand together against this obscurity, I also think I'll be able to crack it. Then it is also important as it has subsequently been. In most youth schools and secondary schools, police contact is established. They get both the police — in general, in environmental law educational activities — to do preventive work, and they get in touch with someone who knows the school when special problems occur. But my main answer is, the most important thing I can do to bring the uvessen to life is to be with and develop a good, exciting and challenging school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e382	I get a little worried when the Council of State has such a view of this. ‘Exciting school’ shall not be liable for criminal offences, at least when they are carried out in the area of the school. I wish the Council of State would rather think about what it is that makes the school itself, in its form – principal, management, teachers etc. – is unable to prevent this within the normal framework. And I know that many schools don't use the police, as Lilletun says they do. I know they're just shooting at their parents, and then it's done. And this has been going on for 30 years! I want something to happen, now!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e389	Something's happening right now! What happens is that in a much stronger way than in the past, parents engage in school operations, in a much stronger way involving students in school operations. In a new way, we have developed conflict councils in school, which are supposed to be involved in and address internal conflicts, but which of course will also be involved in and create a cohesion at school. Then we have also, to a greater extent, entered into cooperation with the police. It might be right for the representative to say that not all schools have developed this, but it's recommended from us, and we think it's a good way when it happens according to neat rules. For this reason, I'm overestimated that a school that becomes a unit where one stands together to get the school to be good, according to the school's purpose, will be able to deal with intruders who try to profit from misery within the school's territory. I share the concern of the representative Evjes, but I hope we can agree that it is the development of a good school, and parental and student exposure, that can stop the obscurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e398	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e402	Young people who move and use drugs at school destroy their own lives and destroy their lives for their fellow students. Therefore, strong instruments are needed to save these young people from the drug problem. In Stavanger, Stavanger's board of directors has called for a strong instrument. They have proposed that the police should have the opportunity to enter the school area at school and investigate using a drug dog if there is a legitimate suspicion that drug sales are taking place in the school area. Such an action may be followed up by a thematic day, or thematic hours, on the drug problem. As Minister of Education, does the Council of State Lilletun have any problem with accepting such access to the school area for police?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e411	On concrete suspicion, there will be the possibility of doing what the representative Simonsen now says, but at the same time, I am afraid if it is in one way the main instrument. For the first time in this year's budget, we've added 25 million. to involve new professional groups in the school. We believe that, in addition to a good learning environment, good social educational work is important. We therefore propose that new occupational groups be introduced. Some principals have proposed video surveillance. We think it's most important to get people in. If we get people with a social educational background into the formality of the free space, into the «long-term», we actually think it's the most preventive. So again: I believe in the school's internal work as the most important prevention tool, and then one should be able to benefit from the police in extreme cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e420	Next follow-up question is from the Gunhild Eyecand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e423	The problem of drug use and sale among school students is very increasing and very worrying. And I think the State Council Lilletun was perhaps well-meaning, but something defensive about the big problem that was raised here. I would like to ask the Council of State if he is interested in initiating a cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to draw up an action plan and, if possible, to focus more on this major problem area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e430	I don't want to deny that there may be a need for an action plan. What is the reality is that, through the new health plans, we have strengthened the school health services with school nurses. I'm referring to what I said that we've strengthened the possibility of social pedagogical staffing. I think the best strategy is to bet on making the school so good that the internal environment is what will stop drug development. It is clear that this trend in society in general, that drug use is increasingly being thanked, is worrying. Therefore, I will not at this point reject the fact that we also need action plans. But I think it's in the day-to-day, important work, in the curriculum and in the ordinary practice, we have to first of all create an environment that works. At the same time, it is quite right what is being said that the problem is growing. That is why we can look at the proposal, but as I said, it is through the ordinary act that we have to stop this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e439	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e442	My question goes to the Council of State Arnstad: In a previous exchange of lines, it was very clear that Arnstad State Council could not refer to a single professional environment that would give her back coverage for the claim that European CO2 emissions would rise if we built gas power plants in Norway. What is more serious is that the Council of State does not provide comprehensive information to the Stortinget. The Council of State claimed that SFT's calculations, which clearly show that European CO2 emissions are falling if we build gas power plants in Norway, assume that the quota system is in place. That's not right. I'm dealing with the calculations in front of me, and I hope that the Council of State has seen these earlier. They show that European CO2 emissions will decline if we build so-called traditional gas power plants in Norway now. My question to the Council of State is whether she's questioning SFT's calculations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e453	What I said – based on what I've been through with what the trade unions have said – is that they relate almost everything they say about gas power to an international quota system. And that's what the government has done, even when we made the decision under the pollution law. It is also the same as the SFT did, as they based a decision under the pollution law. The only difference between the Government and the SFT is that the Government did not find itself able to double-regulate with pollution laws and national allowances systems in the first 10 years. The reason we didn't do that was because a majority in the United Kingdom said in the Kyoto notification that we shouldn't double-regulate. I do not dispute that the NVE in the past, and so far also the SFT, may have said that it will have a positive effect internationally with gas power. But that they have then assumed that it should actually lead to one replacing the coal power generation, and that it should actually lead to it not being eaten up in increased consumption, I am very sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e460	The point is that the growth of energy consumption is strong also during the Bondevik administration, and despite the measures taken. If we correct for the mild weather last year, the consumption increased by 2.9 pst. This means that we are becoming increasingly dependent on importing highly polluting coal power from Denmark. It is not correct, as the Council of State claims, that SFT's calculations assume that the allowance system is in place. What SFT has demonstrated to the Committee is that the total CO2 emissions in the European context will decrease if we build gas power plants now. When the allowance system is in place, when the Kyoto mechanisms and the agreement enter into force, there will be a ceiling set, and then it does not matter whether we fire with gas power, with or without clean-up, because the increased CO2 emissions will then have to be compensated with reduced emissions elsewhere. So I think it's a little strange argument the council of states is going to the Stortinget. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] I want to ask again if it is such that she draws SFT's calculations into doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e467	As I said in my first answer, I'm not saying that they use it as a premise, I'm saying that gas power is constantly being referred to as an international quota system. That is quite natural, because we have concluded an international climate agreement. The difference between the NVE opinions, which are now used by the Workers' Party, in 1997 or the 1995 gas power report and the NVE opinions in relation to the 1998 Energy Committee, is simply that we have concluded an international climate agreement. Thus, the 1998 NVE considerations are also much more relevant than those in 1997 and 1995. So I'm going to say about SFT's calculations that I'm assuming they're going to be based on 1. that one specifically replaces coal power generation2. not to be eaten in increased consumption Now I expect that the representative Sanner may not be so concerned about the need not to increase consumption so strongly, but for some of us it is quite important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e483	There will be follow-up questions – Per-Cristian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e487	This dialogue through several issues where the Council of State asks the Government reveals at least one thing very clearly, and it is that the Government is on a collision course with the Storting on what to do until a new quota system is in place, in particular with regard to the management of greenhouse gas emissions from gas power plants. Such questions can be clarified. The government has decided not to do so. Then there might be a collision of that. My question then lies on another part of the consistency of the matter between the Council of State and the Government. Can the Council confirm that, pending a new quota system, can other countries, preferably with Norwegian gas, establish electricity production without any restrictions on greenhouse gas emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e494	Firstly, I agree that this is a long way to go about what we're going to do in the next ten years, until an international quota segment is in place. The SFT emissions permit is based on it, the Government's appeal decision is based on it. Both from the SFTs and from the Government, it is said that here there must be a system that also works in the ten years. Right does not want the pollution law to apply. It's okay. But the Workers' Party has actually said that the pollution law will apply. That's when I get inquired about the Stortinget – and perhaps especially about the Workers' Party – about what should be the content of the pollution law. That, I think, is a significant question. But I hope that the position of the Energy Committee in connection with the communication will clarify part of it. Then to Norwegian gas exports. It is true that we do not want to ask each country what they use that gas for which they import from Norway. But when that is said, we believe that each country has a responsibility in relation to its own climate emissions, and that is an explicit responsibility. But it is also a responsibility that must be seen in relation to the total energy production in each of the countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e503	Bent Hegna – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e506	Now we've been using the entire questioning process to try to get an answer to a simple question, without getting an answer. Both SFT and NVE state that if we do not build gas power plants in Norway, CO2 emissions increase because we need to continue to import highly polluting coal power. So that documents SFT, NVE and SINTEF. The simple question to the Council of State is: Where does the Council of State find evidence that this is not the case? Where is the documentation that NVE and SFT are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e513	I can only repeat what I have said: I have read the most recent documents, especially from the NVE, because it is my professional body. The NVE refers to gas power as being positively linked to an international climate agreement. What they said earlier about 2 million. tonnes of CO2 and its international reduction are from an opinion in 1997 and from the gas power communication to the Brundtland Government in 1995, and it was by chance before we had an international climate agreement. So I'm saying that they're talking about gas power positively linked to an international quota segment. And then I ask myself, what's the problem? Because it is also in the SFT’s authorisation and in the Government’s appeal decision. So what's the Labour Party problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e520	Last follow-up questions – Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e523	It seems that the environmental work on the energy side may be in the process of being set back several years because it seems that the majority of the Storting does not understand what the Kyoto commitments will give us in the long term. As Jan Tore Sanner said here, if you now increase emissions in one area, that means you have to reduce them somewhere else. That's right. It presupposes the purchase and sale of allowances in the long term. Then you have to ask yourself what is the price of these allowances going to be, and if there is actually someone who has something to sell. In the meantime, you can see that there are a lot of buyers on the market, not so many sellers. Can the Council of State say a little bit about what prices you might have in such a quota system, and whether she might imagine someone who might be selling us something here, so that a polluting gas power plant could be profitable and could produce electricity at a price that could be sold?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e528	For the President, this seems to be a new main question, but it is up to the Council of State Arnstad to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e531	I think it's hard to have a sense of what's going to be the price of the allowance in an international system. So far, the estimates have varied quite a lot from instance to instance, based on different bases and different expectations, so that I find it difficult to have some sort of forming about it. And that's just one of the reasons why I think it's necessary here to wait for an internationally committed quota segment, because that's only when someone wants to know what the price is in the system. That being said, it is clear that we also have a job – and I would expect that to be given more attention gradually – in the various sectors of Norwegian society that may be covered by a quota system. After all, gas power plants are not the only ones, possibly with emissions of up to 7 million. tonnes of CO2, but it may also be shipping, transport, fishing. There has to be a fairly fair distribution between the different sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e538	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e541	I have a question to the Council of State Lilletun. As one of the country's first schools, Sogn High School wants to use video cameras to monitor students at school. What is the Council of State's view of the monitoring that the school administration now wants to use at Sogn High School?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e549	I have recorded through the media the same thing as the representative Kristiansen, and I have seen work going on clarifying the legal relationship around such a question. It is clear that one must at least stay within what is legally sustainable, with supervision that is not always known. That being said, I would like to add that I can't finally answer when it concerns the law in it, I will be able to come back to that, and there is a work going on. When it comes to what I think of it, I'm essentially worried that one has to go to such a step. The main reason for this year's budget proposals to bring alternative occupational groups into the school was that we should start a social educational work, that we should start other types of work in the school, which means that one solves environmental problems in a more constructive, humane way. So I hope we'll be able to develop a school where camera surveillance is not the natural way of doing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e556	Can I perceive the Council of State so that he now wants to put in place measures against Sogn High School, so that there is no access to or opening up the possibility of using video cameras to monitor students?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e561	No, it was drawing the Council's answer very far. I say that if it is such that the juice causes there to be no need, of course it will be explained. Is it on alert, etc. I think there should be so much freedom for the individual municipality and the individual school that I should not try everything they do, even if it was not the educational method that I and the government wanted to use. One should look at the differences between the two things. Of course, if it's not within promised limits, we have to stop it. Is that so, I might say what I mean, but it's going to be up to the school eventually how they're going to practice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e566	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e571	There are so many questions about the ordinary questioning procedure that we won't be done within the regulatory time. On the basis of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will therefore vote. The fourth paragraph gives access to just one supplementary question in the ordinary Question Time today. In addition, there will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 9, from the representative of Mr Halvorsen to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed. Question 10, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Questions 12 and 14 from the representatives of Asmund Kristoffersen and Ola D. Glötvold, respectively, to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Transport, who will address them. At the request of the Minister for Transport, the questions will be moved and answered before question 20, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 15, from the representative of Erling Brandsnes to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be taken up by the representative of Sylvia Brustad. Question 18, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, the question will be moved and answered before question 26, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 25, from the representative, Mr Eng, to the Minister for Health, lapses because the questioner is not present. Questions 37 and 38, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, have been withdrawn. Question 39, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e600	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘Refers to Innst. S. No 174 and the following debate on changes in the municipal borders between Sande and Vanylven municipalities in Møre and Romesdal counties. [[1998-99]] These changes mean that Åram krins in Sande municipality will be transferred to Vanylven municipality. Can the Council of State explain where the matter is today and when it is decided?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e609	The border control case between the municipalities of Sande and Vanylven in the More and Romesdal counties was sent back to the Government during the treatment in Stortinget for a new treatment and decision. The majority stressed during the treatment that the consequences for the islands Sandsøy and Kvamsøy had to be further investigated before a decision could be made in the case. The Ministry has asked the County of More and Romesdal that the investigation work be started. The county has been asked to find, in consultation with the municipalities, an appropriate research environment to investigate the impact on the islands of Kvamsøy and Sandsøy of any regulation of the border. The county has now met with representatives of the Sande municipality and Kvamsøy, Sandsøy and Åram, and will now prepare a programme for the investigation, where the content and process are outlined. This programme will be sent to the municipalities and county councils for an opinion, before the county council proposes a plan for the investigation. The county plans to go out with an invitation to a research environment in the month-end of February/March. The investigation will then be sent to the ministry over Easter and one can expect a decision to be taken during the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e621	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It makes me a little eighty-eighty because something must have happened after the debate. The debate signaled that the Council of State could do this more quickly than is currently being proposed. There was an understanding in the debate between the Government Party, the Labour Party and the Progress Party that this could be decided much faster. On this basis, it was also the government party and the Progress Party that drew their proposal for a decision on this matter, which made it clear that one should immediately make the regulation that it broke here. The councils also stated that he could do this very quickly with the background of what was said by the Labour Party, the Government Party and the Progress Party. [[Solholm]] So my supplementary question is, what's happened in the meantime, and can you wait for this to be decided so that you can keep choices for the autumn?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e632	It is true that I thought it would be possible to clarify the border controls quickly after the mentioned treatment in Stortinget last. The majority then asked for a number of aspects of this border regulation to be investigated, and my intention was to do so so that this investigation could be made before the elections last autumn, and that in that way the border regulation could have been decided before the elections. It didn't seem possible to do that. And since the election was held with the old limits, it's my opinion that then I want to spend the time that is necessary to get the investigations that Stortinget asked for, in a proper way, as we have now committed. It will be implemented during this year. We await the investigation from the county already around Easter hours, and aim to do so as quickly as possible now on the basis of the assessments requested by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e640	I allowed myself to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: «In recent times, a number of complaints have been raised about the decision that company taxes were made by the State. Many central party spokesmen are in the appeal choir. The last is that more and more business owners say that municipalities care less and less about business development. The municipality of Tønsberg recently said no to 250 jobs because they could not afford it. Foundation: State corporation tax. What does the Council of State think to do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e649	Municipal corporation tax was converted into State taxes in the 1999 financial framework. There are several reasons why corporation tax should be State. I would like to mention in particular that the main reason for the differences in service provision between municipalities is that they have different income bases. The company tax was very unevenly distributed between the municipalities. By making corporation tax state-owned, there will be less differences in tax revenue and thus a more equivalent service offer between municipalities. On the other hand, I am aware that there may be a link between corporate tax and municipal business organisation. This relationship was assessed in the context of the conversion of corporate tax. I refer here to the Committee on Income Systems' investigation into the financing of the municipal sector. Taxes from companies can give municipalities some positive incentives to facilitate business development. However, studies carried out indicate that the potential for increased tax revenue is not a main driving force in the work of municipalities. The main motive is to obtain jobs for the inhabitants of the municipality. This motive will continue to be present also with State corporate tax. The labour force of the inhabitants returns to the municipality with increased tax revenue. Conversion of corporation tax was compensated by increasing the municipality's share of tax from personal taxpayers. At this stage, I cannot see that there is a basis for reconsidering the issue of State corporation tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e660	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I'm disappointed in it. He points out that there are different service provision in the municipalities, company tax is unevenly distributed, etc. But by making corporate tax state law, one will introduce state governance. What about local democracy? He also says that the most important motive is to get work for the people of the municipality. That's not correct either. What is an important point to make is that intermunicipal cooperation will not increase in the absence of corporate tax. It turns out to be something else. in Stokke municipality, which has laid out an industrial field, but unfortunately those who work in that industrial field live in Tønsberg and Sandefjord, and then they are stuck with the expenses and the other two municipalities with the income. So I have to say again that I am disappointed that the Council of State will not take this and do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e669	I would like to remind you that there is another side to this matter that was crucial for the Government to choose to propose a conversion from municipal to state corporate tax. All the large enterprises and groups in the country have their head office in Oslo and Akershus, despite the fact that large parts of the business of these companies are located around the whole country. It is enough to mention companies such as Hydro and Elkem as examples of this, where the corporate tax previously applied to the Municipality of Oslo, despite the fact that large parts of the jobs and also the costs of establishing the jobs were around in many district municipalities. Oslo received the majority of the corporate tax as long as it was municipal. The conversion that was made has led to a significant other distribution of corporation tax across all the municipalities of the country, and in this way it has been smoothing, as was the Government's intention. Then, of course, with the new system there will also be some problems in relation to the work on business development, but I would say that the municipalities have a separate responsibility to take this seriously and to facilitate jobs and businesses in their own municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e679	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: "In addition, several municipalities have to wait up to six months for the processing of building applications, in some municipalities even longer, shows a study carried out by the Landsförbund of the Huseierne. The objective of a faster processing time does not appear to have been substantially achieved. For several reasons, it must be described as unacceptable to wait more than half a year for the processing of a building application. Does this not demonstrate once again the need for further simplifications in the new Planning and Building Act and related Form Fields?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e688	Of course, it is not acceptable to wait over one year for the processing of a building application. Fortunately, however, this is a reality that very few applicants experience. The image is more nuanced than this. Of the 20 selected municipalities that were involved in a survey, four municipalities indicate an average length of proceedings for construction cases of up to six months, and only one municipality that specifies a longer period of proceedings than this. It is not unexpected that these are processing times from press communities around Oslo. However, the study also shows that municipalities in press areas can handle construction matters quickly. I mention some examples of it: Ski 4-5 weeks, Kristiansand 4-6 weeks and Trondheim 1-2 months. On this basis, I believe that the building rules themselves are not necessarily the cause of long processing times in some municipalities. The scarce resources of the planning and building authorities, the unexplained planning situation with the need for exemptions and re-regulations as well as the difficult clarifications of interest in increasing congestion are elements that are so crucial for time use. However, there is still a need for simplification. In the course of the 1997 construction reform, the main objective was to reduce the extent of construction errors and construction damage. As late as December 13th last year, the Ministry made further changes to the building regulations with a view to making it easier to build. At the same time, a significant processing of the so-called approval catalogue was carried out, while the forms for construction applications were considerably simplified. However, we will go further. For the past year, I intend to send suggestions for consultation such as: will include further extension of measures that can be dealt with after notification, i.e. without a full application. I would also like to look into whether local authorities should be able to give a certain degree of freedom to decide for themselves how to handle and document construction matters. As part of the Government’s ‘Simplifying Norway’ programme, more projects have also been launched in this area that will provide improvements. Among other things, I mention: further development of information on building legislation and good examples of the Internet. In this context, the State Building Authority is now preparing to make all building forms freely available on the Internet. I see this as an important step towards the possibility of full electronic processing of building applications. All of this should provide a basis for faster and better process of construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e701	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and there were some things that I saw as reasonably positive. The Government understands the need to carry out further simplification work in this area. The need to wait six months to get permission from the authorities to build a house or a cabin in this country is not acceptable, as the Council of State said. This is not acceptable in Norway in 2000. We've had almost two years to organize for this. I would like to say that there is in no way acceptable with this cooling system in large parts of the public sector. We have both pole cows and – much worse – long hospital cows in Norway, and it will be wrong if we are now in the process of establishing a public transport system to obtain permission to build dwellings, cabins or houses. We can't accept that. State councils can't get away with minimizing and apologizing in any way. He must ensure, as he was aware, that the law in some areas is simplified so that these bottlenecks can be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e708	Once again: we have made simplifications and we will continue to make simplifications, but when the situation is that some municipalities spend four weeks dealing with a building application and other municipalities spend one year, it is not only the law that is to blame for this taking a long time, because it shows that it is actually also possible to do so quickly if the municipality is interested in doing so quickly, deploys the necessary resources to do so quickly, has regulatory plans that enable it to do so quickly, and the application is of such a nature that there are no major conflict situations. This is therefore not only a question of the design of legislation, but it is also a question of how each municipality facilitates the processing of building applications. It is not the responsibility of the state, it is the responsibility of each municipality. We continue the simplification work with a view to facilitating as simple a process as possible for the individual user applying for permission to build the building. That is our primary objective, while, of course, we also want to facilitate the provision of simple and flexible treatment to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e716	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘After the most recent incidents at sea, several cases of non-conforming safety equipment on domestic passenger ships have been identified. This has triggered strong criticism by the Maritime Directorate, which is the body responsible for the approval and control of this equipment. What will the Council of State do to restore confidence in the Directorate of Maritime Affairs and will crew reductions continue to be carried out on the basis of the installation of new means of rescue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e725	I would like to make it clear, at the outset, that the shipping company and on-board management are responsible for maintaining ships and equipment in proper condition at all times and that the ship is adequately manned. All life-saving appliances to be used on Norwegian ships shall either be approved, type approved or accepted by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. Life-saving appliances approved or type-approved by countries which have ratified the Maritime Safety Convention are accepted by the Maritime Directorate without further testing, unless there are specific reasons to believe that the equipment does not comply with the applicable requirements. This procedure complies with national and international rules. By virtue of the EEA Agreement, the Norwegian authorities are initially obliged to accept equipment produced and approved in an EEA country. The test criteria for approval or type-approval have been drawn up on the basis of damage and accidents assumed to occur on a vessel and experience gained from incidents. The criteria may not necessarily cover all foreseeable emergency situations in which a ship may come into contact, but the approval of the equipment is evidence that it meets a defined minimum standard. In the case of life jackets on board ‘Sleipner’, it was found that they did not function properly. The life jackets were approved by the UK authorities. The equipment was therefore accepted without further testing for use on Norwegian ships. Following the “Sleipner” accident, the Maritime Directorate has withdrawn its acceptance of this type of lifejacket with immediate effect and informed other maritime administrations, including the British, and the European Commission. One of the duties of the Accident Commission is to identify the reason why the life-rafts did not function. I do not want to draw any conclusions until the report is available, but I can assure you that the content will be followed up by the maritime authorities. The Maritime Directorate carries out checks on life-saving appliances under both periodic and unannounced supervision. It shall be taken, inter alia: random checks with regard to the operation of the equipment. During normal checks on a ferry, recent deficiencies in the packing and installation of life-saving appliances were found. A detailed examination showed that another ship with similar equipment was missing. The Maritime Directorate then immediately contacted the manufacturer and got a list of other ships with such equipment. A check was subsequently carried out which caused the vessels to be detained or the number of passengers reduced, until the required functional tests were carried out and deficiencies corrected. The trust of the Maritime Directorate is based on the fact that it does the work needed to ensure safety at sea in the manner described above. The starting point for work on new means of rescue is and has been to improve safety at sea. The size of the crew is individually assessed for each ship. Following a concrete assessment, the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs shall determine the safety crew necessary to ensure the safety of the ship and its occupants. An important element of this assessment is what is required to operate the means of rescue in an emergency. Therefore, a change of life-saving appliances, like modifications or other significant changes in other equipment, could involve changes in crew size or composition. However, the condition for any manning arrangement is that the safety of passengers and the ship is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e746	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am in no way reassured by what I heard. Seafarers have for a long time highlighted weaknesses in the manning requirements and safety equipment of domestic passenger ships. They have expressed great concern about safety. On my question in the Questionnaire about this on 27 January 1999, the Council of State replied, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is recently developed life-saving equipment that is low-working and reduces crew requirements in case of evacuation.’ In time, the concern of the seafarers was not unfounded. Exercises have shown that approved life-saving appliances have not functioned satisfactorily. In the light of what the Council of State just said, I would like to ask: is it really the case that equipment put into service will not be tested on board the boats before approval is made for each boat? And who is responsible when approved equipment does not work? Is it the case that the company is responsible for the equipment approved by the Directorate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e762	Let me say once again that it is the Maritime Directorate that determines the safety crew for the individual boat, based on the means of rescue that the boat has. Of course, there will always be differences of opinion as to whether there should be more seafarers on board a boat than is required by the competent authorities to ensure safety. But the Maritime Directorate actually has the competence to determine the necessary safety crew. In addition, there will very often be a shipowner’s assigned crew in addition to it to perform other duties on board the ship. It is also the case that when new means of rescue, new technologies, will be possible for the Maritime Directorate to re-assess the situation. But in any case, the skilled professionals who constantly consider safety to be the most important thing, and what is needed manning. We are subject to international rules regarding equipment. In addition, the equipment shall be approved by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. However, it is true that if the countries producing this equipment have approved the equipment and it is within the international rules, the EEA Agreement, etc., it will automatically be approved in Norway. In this case, as we know — after the ‘Sleipner’ accident — we have chosen to go beyond this, because there are devices that are not good enough for use in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e776	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: «The Bergen customs district now threatens a boat owner in Bergen with daily fines because he does not register his boat in the Small Boat Register. The boat is already registered in the ship register and bearing its registration number. The Customs district insists that the boat should also be registered in the Small Boat Register. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to interpret the law to require such a double registration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e785	Under the law of recreational craft and small boats, all boats less than 15 metres and with a fixed port in Norway shall be registered in the central small boat register, unless the boat is subject to registration under other laws. Larger boats will be registered throughout the ship registers. For boats over 15 metres, such registration is mandatory, while for boats between 10 and 15 metres a voluntary registration system is in place. Voluntary registration in the ship registers will not exempt from registration in the Small Boat Register. After my experience, the case from the Bergen customs district concerns a case where the ship is registered on a voluntary basis in the ship registers. The legal process of the Small Boat Register assessed the relationship between voluntary registration in the ship registers and registration in the Small Boat Register. It was not found appropriate that registration for boats between 10 and 15 metres should be optional, whereas for boats over 15 metres and for those under 10 metres it would be mandatory to register the ship registers and the small boat register respectively. In this context, it may also be pointed out that the premiums for the ship registers and the Small Boat Register are different. The small boat register is, among other things, established for use for maritime road safety purposes, social planning, environmental protection, preparedness purposes, tax collection and charges, insurance purposes, police investigations, consumer surveys and information. In order to adequately address these concerns, it is important that the register should contain as large a number of small-boat fleets as possible. In this context, it is particularly important that the larger small boats are included in the register. For boat owners, it may seem heavy that boats that have been voluntarily registered in the ship registers must also be registered in the Small Boat Register. However, I would like to point out that the registration in the ship registers is voluntary in these cases. There is therefore no double registration requirement. I can also inform you that there is currently no charge for registration in the Small Boat Register. Under the law on recreational craft and small craft, the control authorities may allow the owner a period to rectify the recording conditions and may decide that periodic penalty payments shall be paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e798	The main reason and intention – as far as I understood it when we dealt with the establishment of the Small Boat Register – was that this should be a safety for the small boat owners, also linked to the possibility of looking for boats in connection with theft and other things, and that it should not appear as a commitment, but actually as an improved service offer. So now it turns out that those who choose to register the boat in a register that has stronger safety and follow-up requirements than the ones in the Small Boat Register also have to register the boat, which already has a registration number, in the Small Boat Register. The problem with the double registration that then emerges is that it will contribute to increased problems also for safety at sea. Operation with two registration numbers, operating with different identities, will, of course, make it more difficult for the police in a given theft situation. It could create more confusion, and it would be quite hopeless to have such a system where, on the one hand, you can voluntarily register and, on the other hand, you are obliged to register in the other register.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e805	The Small Boat Register has been established for many purposes, including safety purposes, but also for purposes beyond this. I refer you to the suggestion I had in my first answer. There is a registration obligation in the Small Boat Register for all boats up to 15 meters, and then there is an obligation for all boats over 15 meters to be registered in the ship registers. Because if you voluntarily use the access that is there for boats between 10 and 15 meters to register the boat in the ship registers, it would not be reasonable to claim that you should then be exempt from the obligation to register the boat also in the Small Boat Register. I do not see that there is any unfairness in the case in question from Bergen. You first have to fulfil your obligation, and if you want to be registered in both registers in addition to this for some reason, it becomes a matter for the boat owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e816	I ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Norwegian citizens living in Norway, but working in Sweden, so-called frontier commuters, have to pay advance tax instead of being taxed in the usual way. This is an economic problem for many. Will the Council of State help to resolve this problem either by temporary measures or by amending the Tax Payments Act, Chapter III, Section 13 paragraph. 1?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e825	When asked about ‘border commuters’, I assume they are people who are tax-free called frontier commuters. Persons who live in Norway but work in Sweden are called frontier workers when they are taxable resident in a municipality directly bordering Sweden, and provide remuneration or other similar compensation for personal work carried out in a Swedish municipality bordering directly on Norway. Such limiters are taxed in Norway. It follows from point VI of the Protocol to the Nordic Tax Agreement. Under Section 4 of the Tax Payments Act, employers in Norway are obliged to make advances. An agreement has been reached between the Nordic countries on assistance in tax matters, including an agreement on the collection and transfer of taxes, the drawing agreement. However, the drawing agreement does not apply to limiters pursuant to Article 7. Norway therefore has no legal power to oblige a Swedish employer to make advances to the Norwegian tax authorities for work done in Sweden. It follows from Section 13 paragraph of the Tax Payments Act. 1 that there should be a pre-tax on income not pre-taxed; the advance tax is due to be paid in four equal instalments on 15 March, 15 May, 15 September and 15 November of the year of income. It has the disadvantage that parts of the tax are due before income is earned. The four payment instalments may also lead to high future payments. The latter can be compensated by the taxable person contacting the tax collector for the agreement to pay the advance tax before the stipulated maturity, e.g. with an appropriate amount each month. The law on the collection of taxes and charges is under ongoing review. Among other things, there is a broad review of the entire recovery area. An assessment of the term(s) will be relevant in such a context. However, it is premature to say something about the outcome of these assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e838	I thank the Minister for the answer. It seems that the Minister of Finance has understood the problem to this extent. Now it is the case that in Halden the municipality is approx. 200 who work on the Swedish side, on Svinesund, and most of these are low pay. Prepayments are particularly hard for them, especially for the May payment, because they have only got one salary to deal with. In the past, they have had an agreement with the host that the gross salary transferred to the Bank of Halden has automatically been deducted from a tax that has been sent to the cashier. This has been going on for a period of four to five years, while it is now shown that the law does not authorize this scheme. And that's the scheme I want to ask the Minister of Finance questions: Is it not possible to authorise – because it's not the willingness to pay it – to pay the tax on an ongoing basis? And would the Minister of Finance be able to approve a system whereby an agreement is reached between the chemist, the bank and the employee that the tax is automatically deducted from the wages and salaries paid to the bank?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e849	Let me first say that when you cannot have an advance plan with a Swedish employer who is with a Norwegian employer, the lack of sanctions on Swedish employers is due to the Norwegian authorities. That road is closed. After today's arrangement, the taxpayer has the opportunity to agree with the tax collector, in order to reduce the problem of large amounts of forwards that are obviously present, to pay them in smaller portions, for example. monthly. But one catch by this is that you must have paid in what is to be paid in due time, and that means that you have to pay a little more than you would normally be obliged to after normal advances. I have not thought through whether it is acceptable to agree on an intermediary, for example. A bank that Kjellaug Nakkim is now pointing to. But if the tax collector accepts it, it should not prevent you from retaining such an arrangement with today's rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e861	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The Minister of Finance has stated that cash support can help reduce the workforce in Norway and thus create problems for the private and public sectors. What measures have the Council of State plans to take in order to counteract these developments in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e870	What I have said about the cash support took place in a lecture under the YS" income policy conference on February 9th this year. There I showed relationships that can lead to lower growth in the workforce in the future. I showed you, among other things: to the growth in the number of disability and early retirement pensioners and said, including the following about cash support: ‘The introduction of cash support may also contribute to the reduction of the workforce. A study carried out by the Statistical Centre suggests that 20 pst. by target women, working hours have been reduced as a result of the scheme.» I added that this is a preliminary study, and that the evaluation of the cash support scheme should be awaited before any conclusions are drawn. The cash support scheme was put in place to ensure a genuine freedom of choice for families with children in the form of care for their children. Real freedom of choice implies both the availability of childcare facilities for those who want it and the provision of financial opportunities for families who want other forms of care. A survey carried out by the Statistical Centre on the basis of 1998 and 1999 data suggests that 20 pst. by women in families receiving cash support have reduced their working time as a result of the scheme. Overtime and full-time work is somewhat reduced, and more work part-time. I have repeatedly pointed out that labour supply will be a decisive factor in the development of the Norwegian economy in the years to come. In the short term, it is important to tackle bottlenecks and pressure problems in the labour market and ensure wage and price growth in line with our trading partners. In the longer term, it is important to stimulate high levels of professional participation in order to meet the ageing wave and to enable us, among other things. to produce the welfare services needed. We are in the favourable situation in Norway that participation is record high and unemployment is low. At the same time, growth in the labour force in the future is not as high as in the 1990s. In a situation of labour shortage, it is particularly important to prevent permanent withdrawal from the labour force. The cash support scheme is under broad evaluation under the auspices of, inter alia, Norwegian Research Council. The impact of the scheme on the labour market is one of the aspects highlighted. As the Minister for Children and Family Affairs stated in the Questionnaire on 2 February this year, a summary of the evaluation will probably be given in spring 2001. When this evaluation is available, it will be appropriate to consider measures to counter adverse outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e890	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the answer. I share the finance minister's concern that the growth of the workforce seems to have stagnated. This is a very alarming signal for our future welfare state. Only in order to maintain the current level of care services do we know that there is a need for thousands of new workers. During the summer period, Norwegian Nurses' Association published a statistics showing that less than 3000 nurses left the profession last year in order to benefit from the cash support scheme. I expect the Council of State to agree that future policies must make working more attractive and that the reforms we are implementing must have an overall perspective in relation to developments in other areas of society. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance what he sees in the changes in the cash support system, so that it is possible to stimulate increased employment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e897	I think it is positive that the questioner and I share a common reality about the challenge we face in economic policy in the future, that there is a shortage of labour that will become the bottleneck. However, I think it is a bit striking that we are now getting hold of just the cash support as the big problem. There are other schemes that the Labour Party strongly protects, which are probably a major problem in terms of the workforce. This applies, inter alia, to: The Workers' Party's proposal on what should replace the cash support, namely a gradual doubling of the parental leave. When it would be fully implemented, it would mean 30,000 fewer in work at any time. It would therefore – if it were to become applicable – be a far, far greater problem for the Norwegian economy than the cash support is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e905	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘Three private poultry holdings have opted out of the brand scheme of the Foundation Good Norsk, because they believe it has shown a deplorable attitude in the smuggler scandal around Prior’s former alliance partner Light Food A/S. A significant amount of million is given annually from the public to the scheme. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to contribute to a labelling scheme where there is considerable uncertainty as to the value of the mark?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e914	As can be seen from the question raised by the representative Hedstrøm, three private poultry holdings have withdrawn from the labelling scheme, on the grounds that the Foundation Good Norsk has ‘received’ the Prior in the case of smuggling and the illegal placing on the market of meat. This case has not yet been closed, but the information that has come from Økokrim so far has not provided the Foundation with a good Norwegian basis for penalties against Prior Norway. Nor do the investigations carried out by Well Norsk itself provide such a basis for penalties. After all, the smuggler case will be brought before the court, and it is natural to my opinion that the Foundation Good Norwegian follows the case carefully and makes a thorough assessment of whether prior has broken the requirements of the marking system when the case is finally closed. The good Norwegian mark shall serve as a guarantee that labelled products comply with specific requirements for Norwegian origin of the raw materials, as well as specific additional quality requirements that go beyond legal requirements. The labelling requirements shall be incorporated into an internal quality system of the label users. Tag users are responsible for continuous control through self-control procedures. In addition, the Food Safety Authority is responsible for monitoring compliance by food businesses with public requirements. The Foundation of Good Norsk carries out minimum annual follow-up visits where they ensure that the brand users comply with the requirements of Good Norsk marking. The credibility of the labelling scheme is very important. Although it seems unlikely that smuggler meat may have been sold in packaging that has been Well Norwegian branded, it is very regrettable that there are doubts about this at all. I am therefore pleased that the Foundation Good Norsk has stated that they will go through their own systems to look at what lessons can be learned from this matter in terms of follow-up, audit and control within the labelling system. The Good Norwegian Labelling System was established in 1994 as part of a strategy to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian agricultural food and to provide evidence of origin and quality to consumers. I believe it is appropriate to use public funds for such a strategy, including: on the basis of the objectives of consumer orientation of agricultural policy drawn up in St.meld No. 19, About Norwegian agriculture and food production, which is to be treated here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e931	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can partly agree that if we have a brand that stands for quality, and if we think of it as consumers, we're on our way. But many poultry producers are anxious that upset and unresolved relationships between Prior and Light Food have contributed to discrediting the Good Norwegian brand. The packaging has previously been regarded by many as a quality certificate. I refer you to a statement by the leader of the Norwegian Kalkunforum, Konrad Bjoner: "I'm terrified of our Good Norwegian brand. That it may have lost confidence is the worst thing about the smuggler scandal." We know, as the Council of State was also concerned, that this matter takes time. A judicial examination of the presentation is unlikely to take place until the harvest. The time factor is incredibly important. If this case is to roll and go, it is very important that the Department, which gives the grants, does something, for example. they themselves enter and control procedures and look at how the orders are managed in the case of packaging.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e941	I agree with the representative Hedstrøm that trust in the label is crucial in relation to what Good Norsk will be able to do in the future. Now, the Foundation Good Norwegian is a foundation with its own board of directors and representatives, which has its own responsibility to manage these arrangements through the actions they have to check that this is properly carried out. This does not mean, however, that the Council of State disclaims a responsibility – also on the assumption that we contribute money – to follow this closely. But so far, there has not been any evidence or information that suggests that the Good Norwegian brand has been abused, and from that point of view, it will be very difficult for the Council of State to impose sanctions on an enterprise at that time. We have to wait for the treatment that may come through the legal system. Of course, if new things appear, the Council of State will also respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e951	This question, from Gunnar Halvorsen to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e954	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘Lookups in the World Gang recently address personal charges against Norwegian military personnel for acts carried out in international service, as well as statements on threats to Norwegian military personnel involved in tragic accidents during international service. In both of these cases, support for the Norwegian personnel involved may seem totally absent from the political leadership of the ministry. Are the Councils of State concerned about the recruitment effect of such a look-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e963	The security and care of Norwegian personnel serving in international peace operations is a very high priority for any political leadership in the Ministry of Defence. In its utmost consistency, this is also a key condition for maintaining future recruitment to international operations. This attention from the current political leadership of the Department also applies to the issues on which the issue is likely to be based. As far as Norwegian participation in international operations is concerned, our participation takes place on a basis of international law and within a broad international framework. Our participation in Kosovo took place within the framework of a legitimate NATO operation, and after the Inter-Political Association of the Great Britain. This message, including support for Norwegian personnel, has been expressed by the Minister of Defence on repeated occasions in connection with our participation in, among others. Kosovo, both during the air operation and later in connection with KFOR. The Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Defence Command, is continuously briefed on ongoing operations. The Minister of Defence is immediately informed of all serious accidents. As a result, policy management can also at any time assess the need for action to be implemented, and the Council of State will stress that information for relatives and specific support for personnel is a high priority. The over-command of the defence will continue to discharge its general responsibility for our staff in the foreign service. The Minister of Defence has also been directly engaged, without it always being natural to inform the public about this. Prior to the release of the Norwegian KFOR officer in Macedonia, the Government worked very actively. The Minister of Defence was also directly involved in talks with, among other things. the Head of NATO in Europe, the Secretary-General of the United States of America and the former Secretary-General of NATO. The Minister of Defence, when travelling to Kosovo, Macedonia, Bosnia and Italy, met Norwegian personnel in international service, and is impressed by the quality of our staff. Continued support and care for staff is of course a matter for the Council of State, even in the future. It is the Government’s belief that such a priority will help to maintain continued good recruitment to Norwegian participation in international service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e974	I thank you for your answer. It was nice that the Minister of Agriculture would answer on behalf of the College. What is the main point of the question is whether both the magnificence and the government will assume a responsibility towards the men who have been involved in war and death, and who then come home to Norway after the end of the UN or NATO mission – which can be war with brutality and death. It is then important that the media do not get involved with individuals, who have acted on behalf of the community and Norway, without having political support. I will, on behalf of myself, and hopefully the Storting, defend soldiers publicly. Will the government as a executive also do that? St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 on international operations suggests that we should have thousands of soldiers on standby and ready for battle. I'm worried about the signals it gives to the crew who's going to sign a contract, when the political community isn't behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e988	I am asking for an understanding that I am now in a field that I am not working on every day. However, when it comes to the question of public responsibility for the follow-up of staff, even after they have returned home, there is no question of taking on that responsibility, because that is of course the responsibility of the Norwegian community, the Norwegian state and the Norwegian government today. Question no. 2 in order to use the language of the questioner, it was necessary to be accompanied by the media, and the manner in which the responsible authorities will set up in this context. I believe that any State Council, including the Minister of Defence, will assess the individual situation and the way in which it is most appropriate to express its support and support for the team that has come home, and is in a completely new situation. I also refer to the answer, where the Minister of Defence has clearly expressed the commitment she has towards the crew, of course in relation to those involved, but also in view of recruiting for these kinds of tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1007	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1013	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: «In the newspaper Grannar on 31 January 2000, we could read about a theft of eight valuable pictures from Etne Hotel. When the hotel reported to the police that they thought the thief was at the hotel, they were told that the police did not move out on matters where there was no life or death. Is that how we're going to feel in this country, and if it is, will the Council of State make this known to the Norwegian people?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1022	The police must always make a careful assessment and prioritisation of what matters they are going to go into. I would like to stress that the police are going to move out in cases that do not tolerate postponement, but sometimes it may be that the police and those who report irregularities may have different perceptions of what can be postponed. The chief of police in Hordaland has prepared a communication to coordinate criteria for the use of overtime in his police district, to which this matter also refers. This communication is based on central circulars to the police, including: provided that overtime can be used only when it is necessary to move into a non-restraint police case. In the present case, the watchman assessed that this case could withstand a postponement. The case in question is hardly suitable as a basis for generalization of how we feel or should have it in the fight against profit crime here in the country. In the light of the information available in the case, and my knowledge of how the Norwegian police work, I also see no reason for this matter to be left standing as an example of a wrong priority. There is no formal notification in the case and the missing pictures have been corrected. Otherwise, I would like to add that Hordaland police district has very good results in terms of criminal proceedings in 1999. The number of crimes solved is very high compared to the national average.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1035	Based on the response to the minister, I understand that he thinks it is OK to break in and steal, and that the police might take action the next day. For those who do, it's frustrating. They call the police to get help there and then, and then I think the police should move out and do what is their job, that is to faking the basements that are out and going. But it is clear that the Minister does not mean it. If my opinion here is correct, I ask the Minister to confirm it from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1040	The representative for security has now both asked and answered the question to me, so I will now allow myself to answer the question on the matter. We're talking about Hordaland Police District, one of the most effective police districts in Norway in terms of clearance and fight against profit crime, a district that works systematically to reduce treatment time in criminal matters, and where there was a local assessment in this specific case that investigations could withstand waiting until the next day. Then I find that there was no report, and after a while the pictures will be fixed. Noting that a local assessment is crazy when it is done locally and with a background of discretion, of course I am not going into it, because the discretion is local. When it happens at the same time in a police district that strives to the utmost to combat profit crime, and which also achieves good results, it should be said that what can be learned from Hordaland police districts elsewhere? For this police district, despite very low personnel, good results have been achieved. I want to take the chance to praise Hordaland Police District.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1049	Question 12 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1055	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Great quantities of drugs are flowing across the country via E6 in Eastfold in Svinesund. On 8 February 2000, a courier, a Norwegian citizen of Macedonian origin, was stopped at the Svinesund customs office with five kilos of heroin at a gate value of 20 million. krones. International gangs show interest in the Nordic region because prices are low in other markets. What measures do the Council of State plan to meet these developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1064	The government prioritises the fight against organised crime. This applies in particular to the fight against drugs. I constantly consider different measures to prevent and combat this serious crime. The Ministry of Justice has arranged for the police to finally have a good basis for combating organised crime. I would like to mention here the changes in the criminal law and the criminal law as through Ot.prp. No 64 for 1998-99 has been carried out in relation to investigation methods. These include: telephone interception, technical tracking and secret search. The practical implementation of mobile phone interception by the police has also been facilitated, as well as investigations on the protection of witnesses and the use of anonymous witnesses are ongoing. In order to address the cross-border organised crime, it is also important to target the economic benefits of such crime. This has now been achieved through a change in the rules on the withdrawal of dividends, where the objective is to recover such dividends in several cases and to a greater extent than in the past. The change also involves the reverse burden of proof under certain conditions. The government has also recently presented an action plan on economic crime, including: such withdrawal measures are addressed together with measures to combat money laundering of dividends from criminal activities. In the case of international police cooperation, Norway participates actively and specifically in this. The Ministry of Justice has recently submitted the notification to St. meld. No 18 for 1999-2000 On Norway's participation in international police cooperation, based on the Government's decision to take initiatives towards the EU with a view to negotiating a third country cooperation agreement with Europol. Norway is also strongly involved in the Nordic police and customs cooperation and is currently chairing this cooperation forum. The Ministry of Justice has also initiated a cooperation project between Kripos, Oslo police districts and other police districts involved in the targeted fight against heroin introduction into Norway by criminal ethnic Kosovo Albanian groups. In order to further improve the coordination and coordination of national efforts against cross-border organised crime, the Ministry of Justice set up a working group to investigate this in autumn 1999. The position of the working party is available, and a separate Council, the Council against organised crime, is proposed. This matter is under consultation until 1 March. When hearing opinions are available, the Ministry of Justice will carry out a rapid examination of the proposals. I would also like to stress the importance that the setting up of a police directorate will have in combating crime. Improved coordination and coordination of total resources are essential elements here. Through the sum of the measures I have now mentioned, I believe that the basis for a more effective and targeted fight against cross-border organised crime should be laid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1083	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a broad set of instruments he mentioned, and it's obviously positively isolated and in sum. Nevertheless, it is worrying when we look at statistics for the Nordic region, that there have never been so many and so much heroin seizures. Yes, but then you take more, you might say. However, the fact is that inflows are huge because drug syndicates see that the bottom has left the European market, and in the Nordic region relatively high prices are still available. As an east fold, I would like to point out that we have many border crossings to Norway via Eastfold. We also know that the foreign train is being used and that couriers are going off in Halden, Sarpsborg, Fredrikstad and Moss to avoid customs controls on Oslo S. There is a massive influx of drugs that contribute to harming Norwegian youth. So I want to ask the Council of State about the necessary control actions on foreign trains and at Swinesund in order to try to achieve greater deterrent effect is also included in these assessments that are being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1090	The representative Hedstrøm and I share the perception of what is about to happen to Norway. And we've recently actually had a high-level group from the ministry to go to some of the heroin homelands to look at the fight that's going on there, among other things. Thailand and Pakistan. I am also aware, through the contacts we have had with the Russian police, of what is crossing the borders on the way to our country. I have also seen for myself a visit to Halden Police District and, together with the customs services at Svinesund, how the business is going, so that I can take with me all the good ideas that the representative Hedstrom has come with in terms of police operational follow-up. When I pointed out that Oslo police districts and other police districts are cooperating, it is precisely because we are aware that it is necessary to do so in order to face cross-border crime. There was also a major working seminar recently under the direction of the Department where practical questions were discussed in this context. I'm just saying this to emphasize that this is what we take seriously, and I perceive that the representative Hedstrom has an engagement that I share.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1097	Question 14 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1103	This question, from the representative Erling Brandsnes to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be raised by Sylvia Brustad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1106	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Society-owned high school students, including in Hedmark, are penalised for their absence when they participate in political or other democratic promotion activities in the school period. Absence practices are also somewhat different from school to school. Does the State Council believe it is right that high school students should be punished with absences to participate in political or other democratic promotion activities, such as the County Council of Youth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1115	The answer to the question from the representative, Mr Brandsnes, presented by the representative, Brustad, is no; I do not think it is right that the elephants in the secondary school should be punished with absence to participate in political or other democratic activities. I will explain this in the following way: The rules governing the conduct of absences are laid down in the training law. It follows from the fourth paragraph of § 4-28 that no absence should take place for up to a total of 14 days in the school year when the student, for example. have taken part in work as a trustee of country-based organisations or student organisations at regional or country level. It is an assumption that the absence should be sought compensated by the student’s own efforts, arranged by the school. Participation in a measure such as: Youth status is not specifically mentioned in the regulations. But the intention behind the rules on absenteeism and on absenteeism is to make it possible for young people to participate in various forms of organisational work and in political or other democratic activities during further training. The requirement also opens to, cf. § 4-28, third paragraph, that the student can carry out organised or independent study work, including school administration, in agreement with a professional or principal, without this being considered absence. This rule provides a liberal opportunity for the school to organise the training so as to participate in, among others. political or other democracy-promoting activities may be considered as part of the training. It is possible for the school to provide various forms of training. The Ministry is now in the process of a comprehensive review of the full chapter on assessment in the Regulation of the Training Act. The problem of absence and absence management is already present in this work. I want to do this work, among others. consider whether it is necessary to change some of the wordings of the regulation when it relates to absences in order to participate in democracy-promoting work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1132	I am pleased that the Council of State now, after actually quite a long correspondence between the ministry and myself, opens up to change the wording of the regulations. Because what's the problem is that in addition, there are very different practices from school to school, even within the same counties. The regulation provides, as explained by the Council of State, for the absence of participation in nation-wide organisations and student organisations. But the problem is that Youth's county falls outside this, at least as practiced by some schools in some states. I am pleased that the Council of State shares my view that it must, of course, encourage young people to participate in democratic promotion, but then we must ensure that they do so in practice. My supplementary question will then be: will the Council of State, in addition to doing something about it in practice, as I expect him to do now, also take an initiative towards the counties and schools in this country so that it becomes clear that it is permissible to participate in Youth County and other political work, and that we are now releasing different practices from school to school, as is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1141	I'm not going to do the time today, because I've realized there are many questions. The answer is short and simple: Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1149	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Church, Education and Research Lilletun: ‘A report carried out by the Norwegian Construction Research Institute on behalf of the Delta Centre shows that the physical availability of our universities is so poor that disabled students face some serious difficulties. There is reason to believe that there are also major gaps in the other places of education. What will the Council of State do to improve accessibility so that people with disabilities have the same opportunities for higher education as those with disabilities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1158	The Norwegian Construction Research Institute, to which the representative Sjøli refers, has recently submitted a report on the accessibility of universities and student cities in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø. The report is probably also relevant when it relates to other teaching places in the country. The goal of the Government is for disabled people without difficulty to have access to teaching places. The report shows that this objective has not yet been achieved. All constructions, facilities and premises should be physically accessible to all students, and the disabled should not have problems in this way. Colleges and universities shall work to facilitate the provision of disabled persons. In the Government's Action Plan, St.meld. No 8 for 1998–99, institutions were required to develop disability action plans during 1999. Such action plans shall also contain physical organisation measures where necessary. The Ministry has asked the universities for feedback on the work on action plans. In the light of such feedback, it will be assessed whether additional follow-up to the apprenticeships is necessary. In addition, the Ministry has provided for at least 5 pst in the letters of allocation to the institutions. the rights of maintenance are used to facilitate construction and local improvement for disabled students. Follow-up of the measures in question in St.meld. No 8 I hope that the availability of higher education will generally be better for the disabled. In addition, I would like to show that before the weekend there was a conference in Hamar on this topic. I have otherwise taken initiatives to create a user forum for disabled students in higher education. The forum will have representatives from the user page, universities and higher education institutions and departments. The Forum shall discuss information and problems related to the disabled in higher education and shall make proposals for action. It is also natural here that issues relating to physical access to higher education institutions are addressed. The report from the Norwegian Building Research Institute also covers the pursuit of student cities and universities. There is a recognition that the construction of housing suitable for the disabled leads to increased costs in relation to normal hygiene arrangements, which is now considered better in the new incentive scheme. It is important that people with disabilities are provided with student housing so that they can take an active part in the student environment. In the 2000 budget, an action plan for the construction of student housing was announced, and housing for the disabled will be a priority. I expect the action plan to be presented in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1169	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true, as they say, that the goal has not been achieved. In its setting for St.meld. No 8 said that the availability of educational institutions had to be improved as soon as possible, and we also said that equal rights to education also had to be a priority task for people with disabilities in order to achieve the objective of getting the most disabled people into paid employment. With regard to this action plan, on which the Council of State was involved, I have learned that no demands have been made by the Ministry on how it should be, nor do we know what criteria the department should assess. Who is to be obliged? What status will this action plan have? What is the time perspective of the State Councils? There are questions I would like an answer to. And another one is, he said that 5 pst. the maintenance appropriations were to be allocated to remedial actions. Doesn't the Council of State think it might be a little bit small in relation to the old building mass that we're actually operating with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1178	When it comes to the time perspective for feedback on the action plans, I expect the Ministry to have completed an overview of this during this semester. When it applies in 5 pst. It's a lot or a little bit, it's actually quite a lot. Because if you look at the total maintenance and every year actually now the eartags 5 pst., there is a basis for great improvements based on that. It's quite right that there was a lot to do here. First, we have the action plans, we're going to evaluate them, and then we're going to see if there's a need for additional instructions. When it applies to this 5 percent, I actually think it's pretty much.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1188	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘NRK’s Culture News announces that the illicit viewing of feature films on video is widespread in schools, as part of the teaching process. Will the Council of State take the initiative in cleaning up the labour law so as to ensure that the practices of the schools are respected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1197	The representative Grete Knudsen raises questions related to a possible practice of law enforcement. As you know, this law strikes among others. who has the right to copyright, limitations in the right to a certain use of copyright, e.g. for copying for private use, and decisions on contracts for the use of copyright, including: for educational purposes. In other words, the law establishes the right relationship between private parties. If there's unhindered use, there's going to be a case between school owners, i.e. municipalities or county councils, and the legal entities. A study carried out by Norwaco — Organisation for Audiovisual Works Rights — suggests that there is a practical violation of the laws when it comes to the presentation of films in education. The representative, Knudsen, also asks me to take the initiative to clean up this mess that ensures that the copyrights are in line with vis-à-vis the schools' practices, and I will do that. I would like to ask the State education directors to contact the municipalities and county councils and make them aware of the law on the use of feature films in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1206	I thank the Council of State for a constructive response to a difficult problem area. Several schools, whether they're film colleges or others, use video for example. feature films as part of the permanent training work. This is a matter of education and not of culture, and I also believe, as the Council of State, that then the KUF is responsible for the school. In the case of writing and books, the Ministry has actually concluded an agreement on behalf of the school, the so-called Copino Agreement, and I would ask the Council of State if anything similar could possibly ensure that the schools could continue their use of video, but at the same time take care of the important copyright law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1213	The representative Knudsen called an institution that is clearly our responsibility, and we also, of course, have to take responsibility for cleaning up the state institutions – I mean municipalities and county municipalities, but the institutions that we own are of course also responsible for us. When it comes to the parallelity of Kopinor, there might be a lot of things that can be seen equally. Given that the municipalities and county councils are the major school owner, the Copinore Agreement was transferred to KS two years ago after discussions and negotiations with KS. I therefore believe that it is in principle right and natural that the KS should negotiate an agreement that is parallel to the Kopinor agreement. We would like to participate in conversations with KS on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1222	Questions l8 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1228	«The snoeper industry in Norway is currently training skilled workers at the Scandinavian Gjuteri School in Jønköping. Because of the difficult economy, the future of this important supply is uncertain. It is urgent to clarify the issue in order to ensure the Norwegian youth and the Norwegian noise industry a supply even after the year 2000. What will the Council of State do to ensure this offer, and what time will there be a final clarification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1235	Jönköping's foundry school is currently a Nordic competence centre within the noise profession and provides training for apprentices and businesses in the Nordic countries. The Ministry's commitment to Gjuteri School dates back to the early 1980s and is related to the vocational training needs of theoretical competence in an area where a supply is not established in Norway. For the last 20 years, the department has provided financial support every year to the Gjuteri School in Jönköping. This has been done in the form of annual supplements directly to the school of materials and equipment. In addition, between 1993 and 1997, under 1 million were given. SEK in grants for special sourced investments. In addition, there are grants to the National Association of Technology Companies and the Joint Association for their use of the Gjuteri School as a training centre for Norwegian apprentices in the noise periphery. Contributions from the Ministry have covered teaching and administrative expenses. The training at the Gjuteri School is part of the training of companies in the noise periphery. Within these disciplines it has been necessary to acquire professional competence from the resource environment outside the enterprises. On this basis, the Ministry has for several years provided financial support to maintain the strong noise-peripheral training environment at Gjuteri School. Jönköping Municipality has taken the initiative to renegotiate the agreement that regulates the relationship between Gjuteri School and Norwegian users, i.e. The National Association of Technology Enterprises and the Joint Alliance. The department has received recordings from the municipality of Jönköping, but needs to see how we want to participate in the cooperation on the Gjuteri school for the future. The Ministry will therefore use the year 2000 to review the scheme. It's now too early to say anything about the outcome of this review. Until a decision is taken in this matter, the Ministry will cover the costs of administration, teaching and renting of furniture at Gjuteri School in Sweden. The Ministry aims to clarify matters before the end of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1248	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The noise industry is important in many areas of the Norwegian community: 2000 to be added, 2 billion to be sold and 50 pst to be exported. in a highly competitive market. This requires a very good vocational education, and since there are a few elephants, there is little talking about establishing a good Norwegian offer. That's why, as the Council of State also had in mind, Scandinavian cooperation is very positive. The background to the question I raised today is that the industry feels that the future is a little uncertain. I hope that the Council of State can at least guarantee that Norwegian elephants and businesses will continue to have access to this offer even after 2000, that it is not uncertain, and then that we will have to get prompt treatment and decision so that both companies and others can start recruiting people for this trade offer even after 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1257	Firstly, here and now I want to confirm that the offer is of course held by this year, when we pay as we have done for this school. The second is that, of course, such an offer should also be made in the future, after 2000, with the same quality. We recognise, as Mr Løvik points out, that this is an important industry with good prospects that needs to be secured adequately with competent staff. What we're still looking at is whether it's natural to organize this supply in Norway. Well, according to the arguments of the representative, Løvik, it doesn't seem like the most natural solution, but that's what we're going through. And the supply to industry and to the industry will also be after the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1266	We are now going back to two of the questions we have raised on the agenda. There is question 12 from the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen to the Minister of Justice and question 14 from Ola D. Glötvold to the Minister of Justice. These questions will be answered by the Minister for Transport who addresses them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1273	The question goes to the Minister for Transport: ‘From the media it is known that a municipal doctor in the municipality of Sula in More and Romesdal was deprived of his driving licence after he breached the speed limit when he drove with an ambulance to be ready to provide life-giving health care to a seriously ill person in the ambulance. Such a reaction under the Road Traffic Act appears to be contrary to the obligation of the doctor, under health law. What can the Council of State think of measures to avoid such unsustainable practices?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1280	It is not desirable from the press review alone to comment on the reaction of the police in this specific matter. Since the matter is still pending before the police and the court, I ask for an understanding that I am not commenting on it. With regard to measures in relation to the issue of medical care/prescription, I would like to clarify this in the answer to the question from Ola D. Glötvold, where the work of the road authorities in this area will be briefly explained. This question then comes as the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1287	It's common to thank you for your answer. I might have to thank you for an answer that I don't yet know what will be, because the answer is also related to the next question, and I'm waiting for it. But I just want to say that I've actually raised this question on a principle basis, illustrated by the example of the question. So I think that such a criminal reaction here, which may not be unusual in other similar cases, is contrary to people's general perception of justice. The doctor is required to act resolutely and correctly when a situation so requires. I think that this question, if it relates to practice, may require a follow-up. I'm excited to hear what the Council of State can say. What kind of progress does the Council of State see in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1294	I fully agree that it was not a supplementary answer I was able to give to the question. The reason why it was like this, I gave in my main answer. However, we are working on bombs in the department on this issue. We are now awaiting the last recording from the Directorate of Road, which I expect will be sent to the Department as soon as possible. The Ministry will then take a final decision as to whether doctors in municipal medical care should be allowed to use their own private vehicle as a call-out vehicle, with the legislation they will then be subject to, and the exemptions that will then be granted. I will therefore be allowed to come back to this in a later round on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1304	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A short time ago, a doctor was deprived of his driving licence because he followed an ambulance on boarding and did not keep the speed limit. Doctors who have to use a private car for emergency printing should be able to get the car equipped with warning lights and markings so that they can arrive as quickly as the police and ambulance. Will the Council of State contribute to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1311	I will not be able to comment on the matter in question, which is in line with my answer to the question from the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen, and is justified by the fact that, as far as I know, the relationship is being handled by the police. The department now assesses the extent and conditions under which doctors in municipal medical care may be allowed to equip their private car with blue light. Further consideration is given to the competence requirements to be set for the driver of a call-out vehicle and how such build-up of competence can be implemented in practice. These are some of several aspects related to a proposal for a revised regulation on the approval and registration of a call-out vehicle and a new regulation on certificates of competence for call-out drivers. Unfortunately, work on new legislation has taken a very long time and will be accelerated. However, a consultation of proposals for new legislation has been carried out, with a view to transmitting the case to the Ministry of Transport of the Directorate-General for Road Transport as soon as possible. The Ministry will then take a final decision as to whether doctors in municipal medical care should be allowed to use their own private vehicle as a call-out vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1320	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased to hear that the work will now be continued to revise the regulations on the approval and registration of a call-out vehicle and new regulations on certificates of competence for such a call-out. I hope that this will now happen quickly, and that the Road Directorate can get the matter to the Department as soon as possible, so that the Department can take it up, and we get a prescription that allows doctors to follow ambulances and get to an accident site as soon as possible or to a serious disease case as other relevant actors. I'm thinking about both ambulances and police. The doctor’s president himself said that it would be desirable for the members of the association and other doctors to come up with such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1325	I can assure you that the matter will be followed up by the department. Let me also add that I understand the general debate going on in society around the questions raised by the last two questions. It is not only natural to speed up the process, but to provide a clarification to enable those who are granted an exit vehicle authorisation to put it into service, while at the same time enabling them to handle the limitations of a call-out vehicle in the case of legislation. In this context, the assignment of blue light is part of the configuration of an exclamation vehicle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1332	We're going to go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1338	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘East line in Eastfold is a train section which is not prioritised from NSB. This despite the fact that there are a lot of commuters on a daily basis travelling by train and that this number is greatly increasing. After the conversion of new routes, the number of departures has decreased. After the last year of conversion, there are only standing places from Spydeberg/Knapstad to Oslo on the commuter trains in the morning. The same is true of Oslo in the afternoon. This is not acceptable. What is the intention of the Council of State to do with the problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1347	I do not readily agree that the eastern line in Eastfold is not prioritised by the NSB. The local trains on the Skøyen-Mysen route have the same priority as localogens on routes as Kongsberg-Eidsvoll, Spikkestad-Moss and Skøyen-Kongswinger in terms of train equipment and NSB’s supply in relation to demand. Nor does it seem that the number of departures has decreased in the course of route conversions. As I have been informed, changes that have been made to the Oslo-Mysen route have resulted in several departures. There has been a strong growth in the number of passengers travelling by train in recent years, especially as a result of the change of route in autumn 1999. On an annual basis, localogens around Oslo now carry about one million more passengers than before the route conversion. This is a development which, of course, is very pleasing to public transport, but it has, as the representative rightly points out, led to a need for local people. Around Oslo, today there is a demand for seats that far surpasses the available seats. The Eastfold Railway has most full trains and therefore notices the problem the most. However, the eastern line is not in any special position with regard to undercapacity in seating positions. Let me add that I have been informed by the NSB Short-range that they use all available wagon equipment during the rush periods in the morning and the afternoon in local train traffic in the Oslo area. Under the framework agreement between the State and the NSB on the purchase by the State of passenger transport services for the period 1998-2001, the NSB has ordered 36 new trainsets, which will be operated in 2001-2002. These train sets will be inserted into the Oslo area and on the Railway. With the introduction of the new train sets, the capacity situation will be improved. Whether there will be a need for further capacity increase will depend on and will need to be assessed in relation to the further development of the number of train passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1358	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I must say that there was not much uplifting in it. Actually, there aren't so many trains on the Eastern Line that we can't keep up with when a train is shut down. So that's why it's not right what the council says. At the previous conversion – not now in January, but the previous time – one commuter took less in the morning, which obviously makes it even more urgent for those travelling. I believe that we must now take the problems of the Eastern Line seriously. We can't ask people to stand for 45-50 minutes both when they leave in the morning and back in the evening. There are many more commuters – an increase of 33 pst. Only in one station – which makes this a problem. Those controlling tickets are afraid to walk around the train. So the NSB has to lose on this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1370	I am satisfied with any increase in the demand for collective travel. So I have to say that I am pleased that the demand for train travel has increased as strongly as it has done. I would also like to remind you that in my answer I described what I saw when it came to investing in 36 new train sets, and that a significant part of them will be inserted into the Oslo area and thus the better situation from 2001 to 2002. Let me also say that the capacity situation on the Eastern Line of Eastfold Railways must be seen in the context of the development of the rail route between Ski and Oslo, where capacity increases are needed during the rush period. The Government will present the future plans for investment measures in the roadside in the forthcoming National Transport Plan Scoreboard Communication for 2002-2011. So here we're looking at the highway, and the NSB is looking at its material offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1378	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In some areas around Oslo Airport Gardermoen, Oslo Airport has measured significantly higher noise than estimated. [[OSL]] Through terms of authority and subsequent insurance to municipalities, teams and individuals, the Aviation Agency has demonstrated that noise beyond the calculated limit values shall be compensated by remedial measures. Will the Council of State contribute to the prompt implementation of noise insulation measures under written assurances?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1387	The Oslo Airport Gardermoen approach and exit routes regulation provides, inter alia, for opening time, use of runways, engine use and operational provisions, including departure and approach procedures. Oslo Airport AS is authorised to operate noise and trasé monitoring and reports on a monthly basis from the noise and trasé monitoring facility. Measurements so far are essentially in accordance with the calculations. In summer, however, experience shows a slightly higher rate of south-facing than expected. This produces somewhat higher noise in areas south-east of the aerodrome. The results of ongoing analyses of the significance of wind conditions for the choice of direction of track, together with the introduction of better adapted procedures and new information on traffic volumes, will be an important part of the assumptions for updating the calculations to be used for the assessment of façade insulation measures. According to the OSL Environmental Follow-up Programme, the OSL is to terminate and evaluate the ongoing programme of isolation measures and update aeronautical noise maps during the current year. This evaluation, together with updated aeronautical noise maps, is necessary to assess the need for additional noise insulation measures. The Ministry of Transport is in constant contact with the Swedish Aviation Agency on the noise conditions surrounding the airport at Gardermoen and a main evaluation of the consequences of the regulation will be carried out in autumn 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1400	I thank the Council of State for an answer that I think was really positive. I understand that in the current year it will become clear which dwellings need additional noise insulation, and that noise insulation will be started on these dwellings. I think it's about a lot, because there's been measurements of the aircraft noise that show that many more homes are affected by aircraft noise than you'd expected. It is important that the big community shows generosity and does what is possible to minimise the nuisances of aircraft noise to those affected by noise, in addition to what has been suggested. I hope the Council of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1405	Governments agree with the responsibilities of the major community in this area as well. During the current year, the need for further noise insulation will be clarified within the framework previously outlined and set. Let me mention that within the noise zones it has, due to the transition to more low-noise aircraft and conversion, been a decrease in the number of people affected, from 4000 to 2500. I would also like to remind you that the Swedish Aviation Agency has recently been informed that the municipality of Ullensaker has carried out its own noise measurements. On the basis of a preliminary assessment, some questions have been raised about the implementation of the analyses and methodology. This is now being reviewed by the Swedish Aviation Agency, and it is therefore too early for me to comment specifically on the measurements made by the municipality of Ullensaker. But we'll come back to this in a later round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1413	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘Women in joint enterprises/garden users born after 1937 have no pension credits for the years before 1986. The rules prior to 1986 prevent equality between spouses who were retired or unemployed. With at least 40 years of rapprochement to meet their demands, therefore, these women become minimum pensioners even when they have worked their entire adult life in common. Will the Council of State give reintroduction to pensionable entrepreneurial income for the years 1967-86?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1422	Pensionable income is determined by the Equations Act and is thus a question that falls within the Ministry of Finance. The rules for the ignition of pension credits in popular security are my responsibility, hence the following answers from my side: Spouses in joint action must submit a requirement to get the equations distributed in connection with the self-notification. As you know, there were limits to such a distribution in tax laws before 1986. This made it difficult for some women in agriculture to get points in relation to their work. Because of previous sex role patterns, it was usual that the income from gardening was demanded by the man in his health. For spouses with low and medium-income gardening, the possibility of allocating income in the years in question would hardly be a pension benefit for spouses as a whole. It comes from the special supplement/minimum pension scheme. In addition, in the event of death, the surviving spouse will benefit from the ignition of the deceased. A division, however, will always be in favour of collecting income over 12 times its basic amount, because it is seen here as thanking what the individual is credited for. Divorce will benefit women from the distribution of the former common income from gardening. Many female gardeners who are now approaching retirement age find that they lack points for the years before 1986, and see it as discriminatory compared to the man, who has increased their points due to their joint work efforts. I am aware that in the context of the 1992 agricultural policy, agricultural organisations raised questions about a voluntary scheme that allowed spouses to distribute pensionable income between themselves with retroactive effect for the years 1967-86, but that they did not receive any support at the time. The organizations have now taken up the question with me in connection with their work on the smoothing message. The organisations met in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 1999 and briefed that the question was on the side of the questions raised there, since it is about the distribution of pension rights between spouses. At the request of the organizations, the Ministry has continued its work on the question in the autumn. Early in the new year, the matter was forwarded to the Ministry of Finance as the appropriate department with preliminary evaluations and questions from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. A main question will be whether a person can open up for a voluntary relationship to redistribute spouses without this becoming too complicated administratively. I cannot now say anything about this assessment, but I want to keep in touch with the Minister of Finance about the matter and, of course, come back with a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1443	I would like to thank you for your answer and for your positive willingness to do something here and follow this forward. This is a matter of justice for professional women in self-employed industries. The company, store or garden could be owned and run by both. However, without a pension rate before 1986, this group of women was out of the coverage network, which will have a major impact on their life situation. It was the law that led to this. If the man was in a full-time position outside the garden or the company, he could still be regarded as a principal and get the entire income written on him. The result was no pensionable income for women. In addition, major differences were made later, depending on the office to which you listened. This group of women has been waiting long enough, with nearly 30 years of work to solve this. What are the timetables for this matter to be resolved and resolved by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1457	My first answer is that I don't want to forward anything we can call a solution at this point in time. But what we're looking at now is the question of opening up voluntary opportunities to redistribution between spouses, without this being too complicated administratively. I understand that the organizations have raised this question again, precisely on the basis of the idea of right-wing spouses among themselves, but also because it has different practices, to which the representative Aarrestad was involved, from the Equation Office to the Equation Office. When it comes to the matter of timing, I would like to focus a lot on clarifying this matter during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1467	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In the Action Plan for the Disabled 1998-2001, the Government strongly emphasises the need to increase the professional activity of disabled people. Despite this objective, many people with disabilities experience exclusion from the labour market because the cost of special transport in connection with the job becomes too high. For example, it is known that a woman in Tromsø has to resign her 40 pst. position because the work trip costs her $400 per week. day(s) What will the Council of State do to correct this relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1476	The government has pointed out in its forecast that disabled people are more likely to live worse than the average for the population, both in terms of poorer economy, poorer employment and lower education. Employment is central to improving living conditions for the disabled. The government has focused specifically on disability and work by including its own action plan to increase occupational activity among people with disabilities in St.meld. No 8 for 1998-1999 on the action plan for the disabled 1998-2001. A number of measures have been proposed and put in place to ensure that the labour market seat has a wide range of services to achieve the objective of enabling the most disabled to participate in work. A well-adapted transport service is a means for many people with disabilities to get and keep work. I don't know the specific matter you refer to in the question. It is also not natural for me to comment on an individual matter like this. When it comes to the policy of the Government in the field of disability and transport, I will draw on the objectives set out in the Disability Action Plan. The government here says that the transport system should be arranged so that people with disabilities can make the most of normal transport services. The implementation of the measures shall follow the sectoral responsibility principle. That is to say, it's the usual services in society to provide people with disabilities in the same way as the people else. These are the same instances that should be supplemented by special arrangements if the ordinary arrangements are not adequate. The Government considers that measures and arrangements for the disabled should be an integral part of the overall activity of the transport sector. In the Action Plan on Disability, the Ministry of Transport has warned that they will give priority to applications from county municipalities for transport for disabled people within the department’s regional and environmental transport system. More specialised and targeted transport measures are needed today as a complement to the regular transport service. The Ministry of Transport developed guidance guidelines for special transport in the spring of 1997 and invited the county councils to carry out experimental activities with increased transport provision. Transport related to work and education for the disabled has been given priority. The guidelines have now worked for some time, and the Ministry of Transport has taken the initiative to produce a progress report on the transport services of disabled people in Norway. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries will present a national transport plan in spring. The Minister for Transport informs that accessibility for the disabled, including special transport, will be included in the national transport plan. In the area of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, I would like to point out that people's rights can provide support for cars for disabled people. The benefit can be provided when a disabled person needs a car, for example. coming to and from work or training places. One must prove that one has a real and monthly need for transport. Furthermore, it is a condition that travel by means of public transport, due to disability, is not possible or leads to such a burden of a lasting nature that it is not reasonable to demand it. Social security may also provide basic support to cover the necessary additional transport costs. With extra costs means a cost that healthy people don't have. Publicresources also provide return aid to persons implementing a professional right to reintroduce measures. A higher level of social assistance may be provided if one, due to disability, is unable to use a route-going mode of transport. Studies show that many people with disabilities have problems with poor finances and high operating costs related to car maintenance. The government announced that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health will consider improving the targeting of basic support for the operation of a popular-security-funded car. In this way, the government wants disabled people with poor finances to be better paid for their actual expenses. The disability debt action plan for the period 1998 to 2001. The size has joined the objectives of the action plan. This applies to me and other state councils, working to achieve the goals that have been set. Actions are well under way, but today we are not at the finish line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1497	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I think that the arrangements outlined sound somewhat complicated, and I also feel that little is happening in the short term to correct these conditions. At a time when the number of insured persons is increasing significantly, it is important to facilitate the possibility for all those who are able to work, especially when the job is ready for the employee, or when people can establish their own job. It is also in line with the UN standard rules for people with disabilities that it is a human right to have a job. If accessibility is to be real, we need to have arrangements to ensure that people with disabilities get to work and take part in leisure activities without ruining themselves financially. In my opinion, this means that special transport must have the same ticket price as other collective services. And then my question is, what can the Council of State do in the short term to change this before you get these messages processed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1504	I have underlined that a well-adapted transport offer is a commitment, and I have a great understanding that the representative Arnesen today looked at the search light on a question to which there is every reason to draw attention. Then I've informed you about the arrangements that are today. My impression is that, in fact, there are also schemes that do not all know about, and that there is a need here for both information about the rules that are and for improvements. I want to bring with me what has been brought up here, to the Minister of Transport, so that we can see how we can contribute within this period to as much improvement as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1514	I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In order to be paid parental leave in Norway, mother must have worked in Norway before birth, while in Sweden, parents must live in Sweden in order to earn such rights. Therefore, a newly-baked parent resident in Halden, where mother works in Sweden, now has no rights to parental leave. This concerns many who live in border lines and work in Sweden. Will the Council of State clean up this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1523	Support from the population in connection with birth is the responsibility of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. However, since the issue of coordination of social security benefits in force in the EEA, I would like to answer the question. First, I want to brief you a little bit about maternity benefits, and then about the social security coordination rules in relation to the kind of example that the representative, Mr. Tömerås, mentioned. In order to be entitled to birth and adoption money according to the people's protection laws, it is a requirement that one be a member of the people's security. In addition, one must have been active with a pensionable annual income corresponding to at least half of the basic amount for at least six of the last 10 months before the social benefit period increases. The requirement to be insured means that a person has the right to receive birth and adoption benefits even during temporary residence abroad. Rules are not given to prevent payment to the rest of the world as long as one is still a member of social security in Norway. The general rule under the EEA Agreement is that employees have rights and obligations in relation to legislation in the labour market. Claims for birth funds shall be made to the country in which the court is lit. Thus, the EEA-wide social coordination rules have as their starting point that a person covered by these rules should be subject to legislation only in one Member State. The Nordic Social Security Convention ensures and extends these rules for Nordic citizens. Thus, in the case of income-based work in a Member State but based in another Member State, the general rule is that the person concerned must be covered by social security legislation in the country of work. This applies to benefits based on professional activity and income, such as: birth money and sick pay. The regulation has no rules on the transfer of responsibility for these income-related benefits to the country of residence. In relation to this legislation, there should therefore be no doubt that the example cited is covered by Swedish social security legislation, and that the person concerned should thus be entitled to maternity benefits or equivalent benefits from Sweden. Quite rightly, Sweden has not long since – in 1998 – been assisted by the European Court of Justice that Swedish birth money, parental benefit, may be exempted from export. Case C-275/96 Anne Kuusijärvi v Riksversicherungsverket. But it only applies in cases where the person concerned has completely ceased to be active in Sweden, which, according to what has been disclosed, does not appear to be the situation in this case. The principle that workers should be covered by social security legislation in the labour force is a broad consensus among the countries of the EEA, and while I do not know the details of the specific case, it seems to me that if a person still active in Sweden is denied birth allowances or family benefits under reference to the fact that he is not resident there, there must be a misinterpretation of the legislation. Matters raised by the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be handled in the first instance by the local social security office or, where appropriate, by the Office for Social Security. Since it is probably not the legislation itself, but the practice of it from the Swedish side, which is the problem here, is usually the procedure that the decision in Sweden must appeal to the Swedish courts. But let me add: if the matter is resolved, I will be able to help by providing it to my Swedish colleague, as I have done with other matters in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1549	I hope this is good news for the example I have with me from my home country, for the person who has not completed his or her employment in Sweden. She wants leave, not to finish her job. After what the Council of State says, I understand that it means that she will still be entitled to birth grant from Sweden. But for the time being, she has been rejected by both Norwegian and Swedish sides, on the grounds that she has not worked out such rights, and precisely by reference to the case referred to by the Council of State in the European Court of Justice. So at least in the first instance, it is said from the Swedish side that as long as you do not live in Sweden, you do not have rights to parental leave. However, it seems that there is one group outside the scheme, both in Norway and in Sweden, namely those who have completed their employment in Sweden, but still live in Norway. So I assume that the Council of State will continue to work with the legislation, so that we are sure that all holes are dense, because it is quite unacceptable that you should stay without rights because you are working on the wrong side of the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1556	I share the lumber's point here of the need for equal dishes across the borders. I was surprised even when I met the one thing after the other just after I got into the department, where one initially believed that the EEA agreement covered such matters, but where it turns out that for the Nordic countries it is the Nordic Convention which here ensures and complements. I have done good for the legislation as it is today and also – as I have understood Kuusijärvi-saka – so far is interpreted. I will take with me the information that came here, and I will participate as far as I can. And I have experience that one can be shut down in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1573	This question falls away. We go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1581	This question, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1584	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The evaluation of the Regulation on Environmental Health Protection has now been presented in a report published by, among others, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. This report shows, among other things, that only 5 pst. by schools and kindergartens comply with the requirements of this regulation and that it will take a long time before one can reach the requirements of the financial framework to which the school sector can relate today. What will the Government now do to improve the indoor climate and working environment in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1593	In the context of the examination of Document No: 8:14 for 1995-96 the following decision was taken by the Stortinget on 21 March 1996: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up legislation to ensure the physical working environment for pupils in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers.’ The Public Training Committee, which gave its decision in July 1995, proposed, among other things: the issue of applying the Working Environment Act to pupils or of incorporating specific rules on the working environment into the training legislation was specifically assessed. On this basis, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research set up a working group of representatives from the departments concerned. The main conclusion of the working group report is that the requirements for the working environment of pupils are satisfactory and that it is primarily the practice of these requirements that will determine whether the students receive an acceptable working environment. Therefore, proposals for new legislative provisions/regulations were not drawn up by this working group. Instead, it was proposed to evaluate regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools in order to identify status and improve knowledge of what might be appropriate instruments to improve the living environment. Aplan Analysis has evaluated the implementation of the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools and finally issued a final report in letter of 4 February 2000. I would therefore like to clarify that the report on the evaluation of the implementation of the Regulation on Environmental Health Protection in Kindergartens and Schools has been prepared on behalf of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research together with the Ministry of Social and Health and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the actual situation regarding the implementation of the regulation is more nuanced than that question might give the impression. 5 pst. of the 100 municipalities included in the sample, indicate that they have completed their work to meet all the requirements of the regulation, but about half of the establishments have received approval, with or without specified conditions. This also does not mean that conditions are irresponsible in the remaining part of the establishments. 43 pst. states that the reason for the non-approval is that the application is pending in the municipality. 87 pst. of the establishments involved in the work, and less than half of them indicate that they have ambitions to have their establishments fully repaired within two years. One third, however, need longer time than this, most from three to five years. Overall, the results show that the large majority are well-informed about the aims of the regulation on health-satisfying schools and kindergartens, but there is still some work to be done in municipalities where there is a large maintenance allowance. In particular, the requirement for satisfactory indoor climate remains in these cases, a measure which, for some, can be very costly. The departments concerned are now working to clarify which measures should be put in place in order to make progress in complying with the requirements of the regulation. Aspects related to user involvement and complaints will be areas that will be assessed. I would also like to show that the Minister of Church, Education and Research as late as the oral questioning session on 12 January, the representative Tomas Norvoll replied that he would inform the Stortingen about what the Government will do with this in this big session, that is, before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1611	It is absolutely right that it is the decision taken by the Stortinget that forms the basis for this. It was understood almost four years ago, and it has therefore taken a very, very long time before one has been given an explanation of how this should be followed up. The Interministerial Working Group that had been set up concluded – as the Council of State referred to – that the requirements were satisfactory. However, they had, in all three areas, both in terms of physical work environment, user involvement and supervision, made provision for this to be assessed when environmental health protection legislation was evaluated. Now that evaluation has come, and it shows that the regulation as it is today is not a good enough tool. We in the Workers' Party believe that students should have a statutory right to a good working environment, in line with employees. The evaluation also shows that the most important reason for not reaching the requirements of today’s regulation is economics. My question is, what does the government want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1618	First of all, let me say that I think that the party of Konglevoll and the parties involved in this government should share responsibility approximately in the middle of the time that has passed. Then I would like to say that we now have on the table both the working group report and the evaluation, the last one is very fresh. On this basis, the Government will take a position on the improvements that we clearly see may be needed, not least on the involvement of users and on the possibility of access to justice. We also want to look at the supervisory function. It is clear that this has to do with municipal economy. This is one of the tasks assigned to the municipalities and of course the implementation depends on the economy that municipalities are provided by Stortinget every year. In line with a number of other factors, this must be included in the annual assessment of the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1627	So we go to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1633	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘When children experience asthma or atopic eczema, this requires major changes in the family’s daily life and the need for different treatments is great. What offers are available today for foreign treatment, i.e. sun and heat, for children under the age of 5?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1642	There is currently no special offer for children under the age of five because the treatment sites in question do not have suitable physical facilities for this group. Treatment of groups of children under the age of five requires additional supervision and monitoring as well as special physical conditions such as: cots, stairways and swimming pool securing, as well as strict requirements for smoke-free rooms, diets, hygiene, etc. However, provision is made for some under five years of age in the larger children group. Today, the offer is located at Los Teques, the boarding school of the Norwegian school, in Gran Canaria. The demand for treatment services for children with asthma and atopic eczema has also not been particularly high, according to the secretariat for treatment travel at the Rikshospitalet. Not many countries, if any, are asking for this treatment. A test group for children under five was wound up in 1998 at the Igalo Institute in Montenegro. Due to the political situation, the project could not be continued in 1999. When the situation in the area is sufficiently stable, it may be appropriate to consider sending groups of children under the age of five to the Igalo Institute. In 1999, I set up a sample to assess the current treatment travel scheme abroad, including the following: in order to look at the current system, the patient groups most in need of the scheme. The committee shall give its advice on how the scheme should be in the future, and a NOW will be handed over to me at the end of February. This study will then be held at a three-month hearing, after which the Department will decide on the concrete proposals that will be put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1655	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I guess that's what I expected. I'm aware that a sample is going on here. But the point is that in today's situation there is no offer for children under the age of five. On the other hand, I noticed that the Minister of Health pointed out that there might be offers for some children, in Gran Canaria, among others. I would like to ask the Council of State whether it is now that parents with children under the age of five who have these problems can apply to the Ministry for funding for possible such health trips. With regard to demand, I would like to challenge the Minister of Health on this – perhaps because parents today take these expenses to a large extent themselves and even go to borrowings to make such health trips. The point is that parents have a lot of money to spend on this. It is likely that increased foreign treatment for this type of disease will also lead to considerable savings for the public through the reduction of the use of medicines on a blue prescription.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1664	Although the offer of foreign treatment to children under the age of five is as I explained in my main response, it is not that this group of children is without treatment in Norway. There's a reason to remember. With regard to the question of what should be the future offer of foreign treatment, I point out that a trial group was initiated in 1998, and that is an expression of the fact that such an offer has actually been considered. For regrettable reasons, which are understandable, you had to freeze that arrangement last year, but we'll review it when the situation allows. The question of funding, I think, has reason to decide in connection with the broad review of what kind of foreign treatment we are going to offer, from the sample, as if in a short period of time we are delivering a suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1676	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In connection with the obligation of the hospitals in More and Romesdal to save significant funds to be able to approve their operating budgets by the County Health Manager, the hospitals in More and Romesdal have come into the situation where they have proposed a significant reduction in the habilitation teams both for adults and children. This will strongly affect mental retardation, but the County Health Manager recommends these savings as they do not miss reimbursement income from the country. Is the Council of State comfortable with such savings proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1685	The county council is responsible for providing the necessary specialised health services, including the investigation of persons in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation measures. In order to strengthen the rehabilitation and habilitation field, earmarked funds have been allocated to county municipalities since 1994. For the first five years, the funds were allocated at the request of each county. In the case of team activities in More and Romesdal, funds were allocated in 1998 to the central rehabilitation team at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal, child rehabilitation – overall provision for children and young people with disabilities – at the County Hospital in Kristiansund and the hospital-internal rehabilitation team at the County Hospital in Molde. In 1999 and 2000, the funds are broken down according to objective criteria. With these funds, county councils have been given the opportunity to strengthen their rehabilitation and rehabilitation activities. It has been a prerequisite for the continuation and non-reduction of the actions undertaken, even if no specific means of action are available. In the public outpatient tax paper, there are several tariffs that can be used for the rehabilitation of children inside and outside institutions. Thus, according to the Ministry’s assessment, the tariff system does not restrict the organisation of the offer locally, as long as the investigation or treatment is conducted by a hospital doctor. No specific rates have been established for adult habilitation. However, the general tariffs for rehabilitation or physical treatment may be used here. If it is the case that the treatment provision for this patient group is organised in such a way that no outpatient or other reimbursement is triggered, it seems as an alternative to shutting down today’s services would be to consider another organisation of the offer. In addition, on a general basis, I would like to say that the health sector must be managed in line with overall national objectives. Economic instruments are only part of this picture, as well as organisation and management. After the implementation of the responsibilities reform, it has been a prerequisite for the integration of services for mentally retarded persons into the ordinary auxiliaries. Psychiatric retardants shall, as others do, have services adapted to their needs. It is up to each municipality and county to assess how best to provide these services without building up a new special care. In addition to this, I would like to refer to my answer to the next question from the representative Nesvik, where I explain what I and the Government are doing to identify the current resource situation, where causes and consequences are also highlighted. I'm familiar with the severe economic situation of More and Romsdal County. The county has informed the department about this in letters and meetings. The county council is responsible for organising and prioritising the treatment of patients. With the means specifically granted to strengthen the rehabilitation and habilitation service in county municipalities, and with the possibilities provided by outpatient rates, the county authorities should be able to discharge their responsibilities towards different groups of disabled persons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1700	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will refer to the ‘Somatic Hospital — Approval of Corrected Operational Plans for 2000’, which includes: the following on saving measures at the Central Hospital of More and Romesdal are written: «The growth habilitation service has 7 settings today. The hospital leads to a reduction of the team by 4 settings.’... ‘This will affect the mental retardation of the community health service.’ Furthermore, further savings measures are described as follows: ‘The hospital may require that if the measures listed above are not sufficient to balance the operational plan, the entire habilitation service must be closed; both the adult and child rehabilitation services.’ These are the facts; this is what is recommended by the County Health Manager of More and Romesdal. It is in stark contrast to what the Minister for Health says, that we should follow up on the offer that has already begun. My question to the Minister of Health is: Will the Minister of Health take an initiative towards the municipality of More and Romesdal so that this offer is not abandoned, but continues to exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1715	The representative of Nesvik on this issue and on the supplementary question refers to is an administrative proposal from an internal process in the More and Romesdal county council which has not been subject to any final political treatment. I have to say that I have the confidence in the elected authorities in More and Romesdal that they weigh this in a wise way in relation to the leadership that exists from national teams and that I have explained. I would be very busy if I were to deal with all sorts of savings proposals that lie in the drawers of bureaucrats in county municipalities. We have to deal with the decisions that are taken. That is what I will do if the Moors and the Romesdal county councils take a decision that is clearly contrary to national guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1726	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to a notice in Sunnmørsposten on 9 February 2000, the day before an overburden of 20 to 25 patients in the medical departments was the day before, while a bed post with 30 beds is empty as a result of the entry into service of this department, this would result in an operating cost of 5 million. krones. This is a situation that seems very strange to the patients who stay in the corridors of the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal. Does the Council of State think that this is a problem that needs to be solved immediately?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1735	I would like to start by saying that I am concerned about the situation that the representative Nesvik describes, with overcoats and corridors. That is why I have taken the initiative both in relation to the State Health Authority, the Municipalities' Central Association and the county municipalities to follow up the problem of Corridor Asians in general. I think it's a problem that we should be able to deal with to a much greater extent, because there's a great deal of organization of the business. Such a situation as described here is not in line with national health objectives. I would like to refer to the responsibility of each county to organise and prioritize patient treatment in line with these objectives. Let me also say something about the efforts made by the state in relation to the hospital sector in general in recent years. Contributions to the hospital sector have increased relatively sharply over the 1990s. The country has increased its funding share, in particular through input-driven financing, introduced in 1997. The number of patients admitted has increased by 5 pst. from 1996 to 1998. The 1999 forecasts suggest that this growth will continue. The breaks in the new waiting guarantee have dropped significantly in the same period, and new figures we got yesterday show that this trend is continuing. From 1997 until now, payments for input-driven financing have increased by DKK 1.8 billion. Growth has been greater than foreseen, and this is already pressing tight county frameworks to cover county self-financing of the increase in activity. The funding scheme is characterised by the fact that State grants to county municipalities are made depending on the number of patients treated in hospitals. However, some large deficits are reported, particularly in regional hospitals. Preliminary figures are available for net operating surplus for 14 counties. These show a total deficit of 480 million. DKK, against a surplus in 1998 of 240 million. kr and an average over the period 1994-1997 of DKr 1.3 billion. The figures show a wide variation between counties. This indicates that the economy of the county municipalities this year becomes very demanding, and because the county economy is difficult, the hospital economy becomes difficult. Hospitals represent, as is well known, a very large proportion of the county economy. This is part of the background for a broad review of hospitals’ economies. That work is in progress in cooperation between the Municipalities' Central Associations, the counties, the hospitals and the State. External research environments have been included in order to elucidate the situation with new studies and available research results. The aim is to have a broad assessment, with a focus on describing the current resource situation, where causes and consequences are highlighted. This review must take place within short deadlines, and I will return to Stortinget by the end of March with a proposal and with proposals for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1748	According to Sunnmørsposten on 9 February, the health and social services in the county were visiting the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal. 22 patients were in the corridors. It was hard to get between the beds in the corridors. It has been said in the past that the fire service has inspected there, and that fire safety has also been compromised. Mistakes in medicine have occurred due to heavy work pressure. «Deficient treatment and confusion of medicinal products have occurred, yes» answers Frisvold, one of the superiors of the department. And the problems tower up. The hospital has a department with 30 beds, which was used, among other things. in the context of the influenza epidemic we had, but which subsequently closed due to a lack of funds in the operational budget. Does the Council agree that it seems very strange and – to say it in good health – ‘back target’ that when you have 30 beds available, you do not use them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1755	You can immediately ask questions about such a situation that is described in the media and that the representative Nesvik is representing me. What we have to deal with, however, is the division of responsibilities that applies in the hospital system. I am aware that the representative Nesvik wants another division of responsibilities where it is possible to place the Minister of Health in charge of 5 million. kr disposed of in one way or another by a hospital. But such sharing of responsibilities is now, I have to deal with what is my responsibility. It is to ensure that this hospital and other hospitals have framework conditions that enable them to operate properly. I take that responsibility. The review I presented is an expression of that. And then local authorities, as I understand it, have studied this relationship in detail when inspecting the hospital, have to take responsibility for dealing with these framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1765	‘In a letter to the Social Committee dated 3 February 2000, the Town Council of the elderly and the urban districts, Erling Lae, wrote: ‘The municipality of Oslo is forced to enter into agreements with private doctors to take up second-guess..., while outlying municipalities seeking second-guess are not allocated’. What is the rationale for the practice described here, where municipalities are ordered to do so without the wish of several tour operators, while municipalities are not granted doctors if necessary?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1772	There are complex reasons why some municipalities are required to receive several tour operators, while outreach municipalities with need do not get tour doctors. The main reasons are related to the time factor, to the legislation and to the increasing number of Turners. I have initiated a full review of this system to address some of the problems described here. The candidates choose the tournament place approx. nine months before the start of the tour service. They then choose the hospital in which they are to perform their duties. At the same time, they choose the county in which they are to carry out tour services in the municipal health service. The tour service lasts for 12 months in hospital, followed by six months in municipal health service. The choice of the tour site in the municipal health service is thus approximately. one year and nine months before its commencement. In November 1997, it was opened up for foreign physicians to participate in the public distribution of tour sites. As a result, a large number of candidates with education and citizenship from Sweden registered. The County Board of Oslo provided, as usual, an equal number of tournament places to the number of candidates registered. When the tournament site was to be chosen, it turned out that many candidates from Sweden did not meet. As a result, a number of sites were not selected, especially in hospitals in the Nordic countries and Finnmark. These hospitals were left, among others. connected to municipalities in the same counties. The problem was further reinforced by the fact that some candidates who had chosen the tour site did not meet for the agreed tour service. A similar situation was attempted in the allocation of turns in May 1998. Fewer seats were made available than the number of candidates to choose. Nevertheless, there were more candidates than expected to withdraw, and places remained vacant. In the November 1998 elections, the district doctor in Oslo took up the so-called ‘blind’ position. The new system means that all candidates with education and citizenship from EEA countries will have their place after the ordinary election. These then select among the places that are still available. The new scheme implies that places that become vacant, e.g.: because candidates are given a postponement, leave, etc., they are filled by candidates with a so-called ‘blind space’. A factor that complicates the administration of the tour service is increasing differences in the number of candidates in our distributions and harvests. This is due to the increased number of study places in Norway and more Nordic students abroad. Forecasts show that the number of graduates in January will remain stable in the next few years, while the number of graduates in July is strongly increasing – this is due to the fact that the universities of Tromsø and Trondheim only graduate students in July. At the same time, most foreign physicians — including Norwegians — report to the tour service starting in July. I am aware that the rules for the selection and allocation of the tour site have caused problems both for municipalities and for hospitals. This is also mentioned in Ot.prp. No 99 for 1998-99 on the fixed medical scheme, which the Stortinget is now dealing with. I have therefore set up a working group with representatives of all stakeholders. This shall, by 15 May at the latest, propose a system for the distribution of tour operators providing predictability and security of award, both for hospitals and for municipalities. The size has allowed funds to increase the number of study places in medicine. There is a broad political outreach that we should contribute to the wish of all Norwegian young people studying medicine abroad to Norway after completion of education. Then we have to arrange for these to also have the tour space. The large increase in the number of tour operators will mean that several municipalities that have not previously had a tourniquet will also have to receive such a doctor. It is up to the individual municipality to decide whether or not the staff of doctors or private doctors should be the guides to the tour operators. The fixed medical scheme will mean that a higher proportion of general practitioners will be privately-practicing. Therefore, it is natural that an increasing proportion of private practitioners will have to participate as guides to rotational doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1793	I have previously raised the question related to the distribution of tour operators, among others. because in my own home country, Finnmark, ten Turnu doctors were awarded for January when it was applied for 22. That's why the illustration here is of how grisly a contrast you can face, quite clearly, when some municipalities that don't want to play the tournament are still charged with it. In the response that the Minister of Health gave to my enquiry in September – a response of 29 September 1999 – Høybråten says that during the autumn, the Ministry will take the initiative to conduct a thorough review of the tour service for doctors there, among others. the distribution problem shall be focused. I would like to ask the Minister for Health what has come out of the thorough review, among other things. is what he said now, a different type of distribution from November, or if there are any other concrete measures to be taken. Among other things, looking at it with the extension of the tour service to a year – I think of the district tour service – as a future action?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1802	The thorough review that I have announced is linked to the working group that we have now set up, which is not just to explain why the situation has become as it has become, because I think we have a relatively good overview of that, but which will come up with proposals – among other things. linked to the fixed medical device to come into force next year – how to avoid the kind of bias that both the representative Ballo and I agree to is unlucky. We have to align ourselves so that we can avoid this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1810	‘According to an entry in Saturday’s Revyen on 5 February 2000, the offer to persons with a sexual dysphoria at the Rikshospitale will cease from mid-February due to a lack of resources. [[transsexualism]] In order to comply with the offer, the entry refers to a modest resource package, but the hospital has so far not received the necessary funds. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this offer is maintained in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1817	Treatment of the disease transsexualism is a national function assigned to the Rikshospitalet. The work on patients who, because of transsexualism, wanted surgical sex conversion, had its speedy beginning in 1963. Since then, the Rikshospital has performed surgical sex conversion of about 170 patients. However, treatment is far more extensive than surgical conversions and corrections. Psychiatric and supportive care is an essential part of the selection of patients who should be offered hormonal treatment, which often takes place over one to two years, and then surgical conversion, often involving several operations. Psychiatric support and post-treatment are also important in these phases as well as in the further follow-up of patients. The National Hospital has therefore linked itself to a multidisciplinary treatment team, a working group, consisting of individuals with special professional insights for this patient group. The working group consisted of a plastic surgeon, two psychiatrists, an endocrine, a gynecologist and a psychiatric nurse, but the individuals were scattered in different hospitals. The psychiatrists who have been associated with the working group until now informed the Rikshospital that they are pulling out at the turn of the year, and the plastic surgeon who has carried out the surgical conversions has resigned from the Rikshospital. However, the National Hospital, in a letter to the Ministry of Social and Health of 11 February of this year, underlined: ‘Of course, patients who have either started surgical treatment and where one or more operations remain will be completed. Similarly, those patients who have started hormone treatment and have been proposed for surgical conversion will also have this treatment carried out at the Rikshospitalet.’ In addition, the National Hospital has briefed that the situation implies that the hospital per Today, treatment cannot be offered to new patients, but they will work towards formalisation of the function of the working group so that new patients can be offered treatment in the future. The Rikshospital does not receive earmarked funds for the provision of national functions but is a net budgeted grant institution with broad budgetary powers. The National Hospital has now been asked to return a case to the Department as soon as possible, in which they explain how they can take care of the offer to the transsexuals, in line with the national function of the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1837	In a letter from the Rikshospitalet to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, dated 3 February, the offer is explained, and I see that part of the statement also comes back when the Højbråten answers. However, it is written in the letter that the group will not, however, proceed with assessments of approx. 50 patients who are psychiatricly evaluated and in principle accepted for sex conversion. It is written that it is considered to start the surgical sex conversion of twelve patients who are now receiving hormone treatment — but it is an assessment. So there seems to be a great deal of confusion about whether the offer will be continued, and I would first like to ask Højbråtten: Will the department of the Rikshospitalet take initiatives to ensure that the offer is continued for those who are already in a treatment offer? In addition, this has much greater implications, including: not a Norwegian law relating to transsexualism, as is the case in most European countries, and it seems that the various departments have taken very little initiative to clean it up. Will the Højbrätt also contribute initiatives in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1844	The representative Ballo quote quite correctly from a letter of February 3rd this year, but when I quoted from a letter of February 11th this year, it was actually because there has been a process between the Rikshospitalet and the Department in the meantime. We cannot accept from the Department that a national function just disappears, and that patients who are in a treatment course suddenly get their treatment stopped without an alternative. That is why the Rikshospital promised what I quoted directly from the letter of 11 February. In addition, the Ministry has taken the initiative of the Rikshospitalet to bring us a case in which they explain how in the future they will perform their national function. And then I replied on behalf of the Ministry of Health. The other questions that the representative Ballo refers to, which is outside my department, I don't think it's right to comment here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1858	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘During the spring, it is likely that around approx. 30 new wolf puppies to the world of the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe. Does the Council of State see the concern that this great increase will lead to among those who must live with them in their surroundings, and what will the Council of State do to reduce this unrest and uncertainty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1867	I would like to remind you that stock development and management of the wolf was a central theme in my response to an interpellation on 28 January this year. In the winter of 1998–99, six family groups of wolves were detected in South Scandinavia, three of which in Sweden, one in Norway and two with reefs across the national border. Final conclusions on stock development in the last year can only be drawn after the winter's traces have been completed. Preliminary reports of the wolf population up to February suggest that this year the population consists of at least as many family groups as last year. This, along with a number of reviral pairs, allows for a continued increase in the population. An increase in the wolf population is in line with the aims of the predatory game management and is important for the stock not to be so exposed due to accidental incidents. In particular, the number of wolves in Norway has increased in the last two to three years. I understand that those living in the areas covered by the wolf can feel the presence of this species as a new and unfamiliar situation. I also understand that many feel fear, especially of nearby wolves. Transparency and factual information are therefore of particular importance, including: how to behave if a person comes into close contact with a wolf. On the part of the environmental protection authorities, we will try to contribute to this. Among other things, we are in the process of creating an information leaflet that can tell us about the behaviour of predators. We also support other information projects and cooperate with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research on the dissemination of knowledge to schools. I would also like to place great emphasis on harm prevention measures in the buffer industry in those areas where this is relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1878	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that this is one of the most serious issues we have to deal with, namely how much predatory stock we are going to have, and what this is going to cost them it affects, and what the big community can do to remedy the damage and reduce the fear and turmoil that the predators create in those affected. Here we're talking about quality of life, about being or not being for District Norway. It's about the safety of our children in play, kindergarten and school. It's about getting an income either in whole or in part from what nature can give, like it's dealing with bumps. It's about outdoor life and what this means for just quality of life, but also something about income. It's about using nature to charge the batteries, etc. If we don't get this offer because the predators are in control, I think in a short time we're going to get a different district Norway than what we have today. I also remind you of the statement of the Council of State of Enoxens a short time ago that there is too much wolf in this country, and that we cannot have an uncontrolled development. What can the council do, and she shares my views on District Norway and predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1887	When we discuss predatory issues, I think it is important to remember that it is no longer than the summer of 1997 that the Stortinget gave the lead to what is predatory game policy in Norway through the treatment of the wild game notification. At the time, the Stortinget concluded that there was a stockpiling of wolves in eight to ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. We haven't reached that goal yet. The tracking in winter and counting of the wolf will show if we reach this in a short time or one. I agree with the representative that it is important to use nature for recreation, but also for nutrition. And that's why the report also says that, in addition to having viable strains of the four large predatory populations, we should also be able to use outlaws for clean and sheep. This is also the reason why the Government is putting a significant effort into prevention measures. There is a reason why the allocation of substitutes has increased, and that we now have a proposal to change the game law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1897	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘An overall municipal committee called for an increase in the rates of aid for labour market enterprises in the budget setting for 2000 to provide real cost coverage and not for the weakest to be pushed out because the demand for earnings is constantly increasing. The Committee's assumption was that this should not be at the expense of the number of places of action for disabled persons. How has the Council of State followed up the budgetary stance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1906	I have noted the recommendation of the Municipal Committee on increasing the rates of support for certain measures. I would like to remind you of what I said in my article in the budget debate this fall. Here I pointed out that if one or more aid rates were raised, this would have to be at the expense of the total number of job-impaired areas of action. In my view, it would be undesirable to reduce the provision of action places for people with disabilities. Therefore, the budget for labour market measures for disabled persons adopted by the Stortinget has not provided any basis for raising the rates of aid to, for example: labour market enterprises without the need to reduce the total number of job-impaired job vacancies. On this basis, I gave instructions to the Labour Directorate to implement the labour market measures with last year’s support rates corrected for normal price adjustments. In my contribution to the budget debate, I also pointed out that the Government is concerned that the labour market measures for people with disabilities are designed to meet the needs of users and contribute to a successful transition to and integration into normal working life. Furthermore, I said that, in my opinion, the current rates of aid are essentially adapted to such an objective. As I also said in my contribution to the budget debate last year, I would like to ask the Directorate of Labour to review the rates of support and any need to adjust them. I also mentioned that work has been started to simplify the structure of action. It would also be appropriate to assess the rates of aid. This work is extensive and will necessarily take some time. That is the way I have followed up the budget position of the Municipal Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1923	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to state immediately that Storting's intention was not to reduce the number of measures. And that state council said in its intervention during the debate that it would be difficult to implement substantial changes from the turn of the year, I agree. But it didn't mean that the Council of State shouldn't do anything during the year we're in now, because what the Stortinge said, and we were serious about what we said and pointed out, was that the rates of support are too low, and that this pushes out the weakest. It can't be like that, said Stortinget, because it's just the weakest we have to take care of in these businesses. And that is why I also pointed out in my speech that the Council of State had the opportunity to come back to the burden of an overall increase in the revised national budget. Doesn't the Council of State see that it's important to give positive signals now? When will the Council of State actually follow the unanimous decision of the Storting – including the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – taken during the budgetary procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1930	I am prepared to make a careful assessment of the rates of aid. As I said in my reply, I would like to ask the Directorate of Labour to review the support rates and any need to adjust them. For me, it is natural to await that assessment before I propose any changes. During the budgetary procedure last year, the Stortingen did not decide to increase the appropriations for labour market measures for disabled persons. It is not possible for me to increase the rates of aid without an increase in the appropriations unless the total number of places of action for people with disabilities is reduced. In other words, the Ministry does not have the power to re-disposal between budget chapters. I can't see that things have happened since last year's budgetary procedure, which is such that we should make changes before we see the results of the work that will be started in the Directorate of Labour. So I want to wait for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1942	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘The Competition Authority decided last year that TV 2’s cards should be available to all satellite systems so that all parabolic operators could be given the opportunity to receive TV 2. The reason was that the agreement between TV 2 and Canal Digital, where TV 2 is a partner, would prevent competition. There is also a need to prevent a public broadcaster from reaching the whole population, and thus such a decision will also have consequences for other broadcasters. Why does the Ministry intend to amend this Decision so that many do not receive TV 2?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1951	The matter referred to by the representative concerns the treatment by the Competition Authority of an agreement between Canal Digital and TV 2 that Canal Digital should have the exclusive right to broadcast TV 2 via satellite. Competition surveillance intervened against the agreement on the ground that exclusivity allows Canal Digital to exercise market power. The main reason for this intervention was that the agreement strengthened the barriers to market creation by reducing the number of free channels in the market and that the exclusive agreement gave Canal Digital a competitive advantage vis-à-vis the only competitor per year. Today is on the market, namely Viasat. The decision was filed with the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which took a decision in the case on 21 January this year. The Ministry cancelled the Competition Authority’s decision and has sent the case back for any new treatment in the Competition Authority. The decision of the Ministry to repeal the decision of the Authority is justified by the fact that the Competition Authority had used incorrect grounds for its action. Furthermore, the Ministry considers that the Competition Authority did not have sufficient grounds to take a final decision in the case under the provisions of the Competition Act that the Ministry considers to be the right one. For this reason, we have shown that the consideration of a proper two-way procedure means that the supervision might reconsider the case. Consequently, where it appears that the case has anti-competitive effects contrary to the objective of the Competition Act to ensure the efficient use of the resources of society, the Competition Authority may take a new decision in the case. However, I must stress that the Competition Act does not allow action to be taken to promote broadcasting policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1969	It is true that the Competition Act does not provide the basis for action to promote broadcasting policy or cultural considerations, but, as big-scale politicians, we are obliged to take such considerations into account. It was reassuring to hear that there is a wrong basis for law enforcement that is the reason for repealing the decision, so that we might get a review of the case again from the Competition Authority. The agreement that has been concluded has quite obvious competitive consequences, but this is important not least for us in order to allow viewers to take on TV 2, as TV 2 does not remain on the satellite system that is actually the most used. The second thing I'm a little worried about is what the consequences this has for other public broadcasters. I think of course of the NRK, which can also do the exact same thing with its cards, but we'll see what this development is going to be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1978	I'm not going to go in and discuss the more broadcasting policy considerations that the representative had in mind, but I just want to confirm once that there was the wrong basis of law that was the reason we sent the case back to the Competition Authority, as well as that there were some areas that were not well-lit. If it turns out that this decision that has been taken has distorting effects on competition, I expect the Competition Authority to re-examine the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1986	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘The mountain is designated as a European city of culture in 2000 together with 8 other cities in Europe. This will be a unique opportunity for Norwegian culture, with a focus on coastal culture, to be profiled even beyond the borders of the country. Will the Council of State ensure that this unique project is secured by an economy so that it can be implemented in accordance with its intentions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e1995	I agree with the representative Knudsen that Kulturby Bergen offers a good opportunity to profile Norwegian culture even beyond the borders of the country. This is also how the event will work. Kulturby Bergen has put together an excellent program, and there is reason to give the organizers credit for it. In the context of Bergen municipality’s application in 1995 for European City of Culture status, the Stortinget pledged a state grant of 36 million. kr for part-financing of the running costs of the municipality in the implementation of the European Year of Cultural Cities. However, in the Government's proposal, which was the basis for the Storting decision, the local responsibility for the event was particularly underlined. I quote from St.prp. No 31 for 1994-95, which reads: ‘The Ministry of Culture will stress the sole financial responsibility of the municipality of Bergen in this respect for the cultural city project and that the financial contribution of the State is limited to the said 36 million. crowns in operating aid for the cultural city year itself;...» Thus, there has never been any doubt as to the size and assumptions of the country's grants. I find it hard to see that the assumptions have changed. I have explained this in meeting with the management of Kulturby Bergen in 2000 and in this context also briefed on the possibilities of seeking support for concrete actions by other government authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2009	I thank the Council of State for the answer. However, the Council of State is also aware that Kulturby Bergen 2000 has faced major problems in marketing the cultural city in the Nordic region and in the rest of Europe. It was actually the Norwegian government that ensured that Bergen became a cultural city. It is also about profiling Norway abroad. I am sure that the Council of State can find out all the formalities, and also ask that Bergen move on to all the other state institutions. But the Minister of Culture is also the Minister of Culture of the Government, and I would ask her to add the kindness and ensure that both the U.D., the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Council of Exports, etc. Add – I kept saying – their forces together, so that the people of the municipality get rid of this, because cultural profiling abroad is – I believe – also a responsibility for the Minister of Culture of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2018	I'm of course the first to be concerned that Kulturby Bergen 2000 will be a success. We're going to use all the fine things that happen in connection with Kulturby Bergen 2000, also to profile Norway. But, as I have said, there has never been any doubt about the state's grant to Kulturby Bergen 2000. We assumed, of course, that funding for marketing was also taken into account in the budgets of Kulturby Bergen 2000. I have been in contact with most of the services that the representative Knudsen mentioned in his statement now, and I hope that it will be possible to find funds. What is clear, of course, is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will make the equipment of the EEAS available. I am sure that a good dialogue between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Kulturby Bergen 2000 will be reached on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2030	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘Annually, the country uses approx. Thirty million. krona to purchase Norwegian adult fiction for our libraries. Many of these books have a very low lending frequency, and a much better offer would be given to the borrowers if the libraries themselves could get the financial resources to make the purchases themselves. Can the Council of States assess this solution which appears to be better suited to the interests of loans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2039	The question from the representative Bredvold concerns the purchasing system for new Norwegian beauty literature, which is managed by the Norwegian Cultural Council. This purchasing system has several objectives. Adding copies of new books to the country's public library is one of these. A conversion as suggested by the questioner will mean that several of the other objectives of the scheme will not be pursued without further delay. The purchase scheme for new Norwegian fiction has existed since 1965 and means that 1000 copies of new Norwegian literary titles are purchased by the Council of Culture within a fixed annual provision, and most of these copies are passed on to the public libraries throughout the country. About 85 pst. the titles notified by the publishers of the scheme are purchased. In this way, the purchasing system gives the public access to the breadth and diversity of the Norwegian contemporary literature. When the purchasing system was made permanent in 1968, it was simultaneously in St.meld. No 16 for 1968-69 defined four objectives of the scheme: improving the financial remuneration of authors to lower the book price of Norwegian books to ensure publishers against losses in publishing new Norwegian fictional literature help to reach the public The 35-year experience is that the purchasing system has mainly operated in relation to these objectives. However, the Norwegian Cultural Council has initiated a major investigation into the Norwegian book industry, and the investigation will of course also include a review of the purchasing system. The aim of the Culture Council is to carry out interim studies in the course of 2002 and the investigation will be completed as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2063	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which explained why we have this scheme, which was also introduced for approx. 35 years ago. My question was whether you should not give the local libraries the 30 million. NOK to purchase books, etc. which users were interested in borrowing. Then the libraries got books that people were interested in. I also believe that the individual librarian has sufficient competence to make these purchases, so that even so-called narrow titles get their deserved place in the shelves. My studies show that very many of the books that the libraries get because of this scheme are very little borrowed. According to the library manager Marit Egaas at the Sola People's Library, two thirds are never lent. Does the Council not see that by allowing the libraries to make their own purchases, we would get a more exciting and interesting library offer that would make people use the libraries much more? I think we have a common goal in this area: greater use of our good libraries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2072	I am, of course, concerned that the libraries should have a good grasp of the books that people want, but I have to repeat some of what I said, or at least had intended to get there, in my first post, namely that the goal of action in the Norwegian book policy is wider than just caring for those who borrow directly from the libraries. So, we're going to ensure the breadth of publications, equal access to literature for everyone, and publications that are culturally valuable, but economically unprofitable. What we're concerned about is we're going to create a book policy that provides an interaction between the producers, the intermediaries and the users of the literature. And in order for us to get to that whole book policy, I think we need to approach the issue in a slightly wider way than the representative of Bredvold does in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2080	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: «Before Christmas, the Commission adopted a commitment authorisation for film productions of 50 million. krones. Because of the cost of capital, this is an expensive scheme, which becomes more cost-effective for the film when payments are made in time. The commitment was given for the year 2000. The Ministry must follow this up so that the objective of maximising films is respected and that film projects are not unduly delayed. How does this happen so that the choice of projects is not affected by the rules given by the Ministry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2089	For the 2000 budget, the budget has adopted a commitment mandate for film production of 50 million. kr. The Government and the Ministry have an obligation and a right to manage the management of the funds within the limits laid down by the Storting. Section 8 of the Financial Regulation states that the State aid will be paid in the future. In other words, there is no limit on the extent to which the term of payment of the commitment authorisation can be postponed in the future. However, I perceive the Storting's intention to use the commitment mandate relatively quickly. I have instructed the Norwegian Film Institute, on the basis of Section 8 of the Financial Regulation, to use the commitment mandate in such a way that a maximum of 35 million. kr will be paid in 2001 and the remaining will be paid in 2002. With this resolution, I have just sought to ensure that the objectives of Norwegian film policy are also met in future budgets. There is no one today who knows what the budget for next year or the coming years will look like in the end. The amount of funding for film production in 2001 is not known until December of this year. I am, of course, concerned with ensuring a stable and predictable framework for the film sector. That is why I have chosen to distribute the payments of the commitments over two years. Only in this way does the film industry know what conditions it is facing from the financial framework we know today. I will not risk having a dramatic fall in film production in Norway in the coming years. My starting point, as for the majority of the Committee on Culture, is that we must ensure continuity in film production. My decision in this matter is the best balance between ensuring continuity in film production and acting as budget manager. With regard to the selection of projects, this must be done on the basis of the existing legislation and the framework laid down for the grant of cinematographic works.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2100	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not quite satisfied with the way it's added up to. I think it is very important that the commitment is non-binding, so that it is the quality of the films that are taken into account, and that the money is used so that as much as possible for production and not just for interest costs. The time of payment should not be the determining factor for which films are chosen. I would also like to point out that the development of a film from the beginning to the end is such that it is difficult to estimate exactly when a payment date will be, and that the demand for payment over several years should have been unnecessary. There is a risk that it may determine which films are to be produced. Neither Stortinget's nor the Department's job is primarily to influence this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2107	As I said, my starting point here is that we have to help ensure continuity in the industry. It's also one of my main objectives when we're about to transform the systems in the field of film, because we need continuity to manage the development of the sector. As far as the issue is concerned, which I understand to a large extent is about how to manage the phase from the commitment to the payment, the situation is that I have to assume that the management institutions, in consultation with the manufacturers, find the most cost-effective solution within the current legislation. If it turns out that we are facing problems that are not known to me now, I will of course come back to that matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2134	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2148	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. That being the case, it is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-16.ana.ud1356e2159	There is no record.
