ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e39	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e44	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e49	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting. At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e72	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers for each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e81	The Government has invited the Stortinget to take part in the adoption of a new law, the law on the right of withdrawal, which will also replace the current law on the withdrawal period, and the Stortinget agrees with the proposal submitted by the Government. Of course, this does not happen without disagreement, but basically there is a unanimous committee that ends up with the bill. The aim of the proposal is to strengthen consumers’ right to information and to be able to withdraw. This applies in specific sales situations where consumers often cannot see the goods or form an impression of the service. Not least with the evolution that we see on the Internet, this will be a law that will become increasingly important. There are some limitations in some situations that will not be covered by the law, including: small purchases of less than NOK 300, an amount which has remained silent for all those years and which should be considered to increase progressively. One of the areas in which there is disagreement concerns the relationship with clubs which regularly dispatch an item, for example: Book clubs, record clubs and the like They have previously had an exception to the law, but the majority now want to remove this exception. This means, for example: can send back books that are not satisfied with. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party are against this. Now there might be no reason to think that there will be such a huge change, with massive return of books or other goods that you get in this way. Let's hit them, for example. provided that the return costs are to be borne by consumers and that any seals must be intact. I therefore believe that there will be limited changes in this consumption as a result of this law. But at the same time, it is important that all purchases are covered by the law we make, because it is very easy to imagine that such an exception can also have adverse consequences and be suitable for abuse to promote sales in other ways. Against this background, I would strongly recommend the legislative proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e98	This proposal proposes changes to the law on control of marketing and contractual conditions. Both the Directive on comparative advertising and the Directive on distance selling have already been incorporated into the EEA Agreement. In the case of comparative advertising, it is proposed to implement it as a rule and to include the basis for this in the Marketing Act. On the other hand, in the case of distance selling, which is a minimum directive, it is proposed in several respects to exercise some more protection for the consumer. The aim of these Directives must be to allow each individual to determine, as far as possible, whether a person wishes to receive commercial messages in his or her private sphere. It is therefore nice that there is a cross-political consensus within the Committee to strengthen the safety, protection and rights of the consumer. It is a little alarming that earlier this year the State Institute of Consumer Research carried out a study that shows that approx. 30 pst. network users have experienced exposure to so-called spamming, i.e. receiving unwanted mail with advertising. Given the recent developments in advertising, it is clear that we need effective restrictions to protect consumers. This has also been addressed by the Consumer Ombudsman for a number of times. We can briefly look at the means used for marketing versus what is used for the protection of the consumer: It is important that we do not draw the laws and regulations too far so that we significantly restrict the business's ability to market its products. The «Tip of a Friend» method is a marketing method initiated by an enterprise, while the tips are passed on voluntarily between consumers. There are several interests against each other, and we believe that there is a need for further investigations by the department. Although there is a relatively broad political consensus on these legislative changes, the parties are divided in some parts of the proposal. The party of progress and the Right means blah. the pre-consent proposal of the consumer for marketing requests by e-mail, text messages and fax violates the principle of technology neutral regulation, which was established, inter alia. in the wholesale communication on electronic commerce. Through such a requirement of prior consent, the law favours ordinary addressed advertising. This would be anti-competitive for Norwegian companies, as well as the fact that it is not rational to push in large parts of the advertising as a paper advertisement. Furthermore, it is very gratifying that we have received a ban on negative sales, which is that the sender gives the impression that the recipient has a payment obligation if he or she does not return the received one. This mode of sale has been used more and more by mail order firms and often puts recipients in very difficult situations. Especially older people tend to pay only because they do not know the return arrangements or the rights that exist. Furthermore, it is important that the Committee has agreed that entries in newspapers and other printed matter addressed to a subscriber or sold by ransom cannot be regarded as unaddressed advertising. This is incredibly important for Norwegian newspapers, as they depend to a large extent on these incomes in order to survive. It is also important to point out that this is in the best interests of the consumer, by reducing the subscription price or the ransom price. Furthermore, it is important that the Committee has gathered on the proposed legal provisions of the Ministry which clarify the applicable right to 'advertisement' advertising. It is important that marketing appears to be marketing to the consumer in order to enable the consumer to distinguish between advertising and other general information and in the light of the knowledge acquired by consumers. Finally, just a few words about the right of withdrawal. There it is, as the case-law rapporteur for case No. 1 has already said, largely agreed within the committee. It's a different point, and it's about book clubs. I want to say that the Progress Party was very much in doubt in that area. It is clear that it could have been tempting in retrospect when you have received information that has not been documented in the past to change your position, but at least we hope that the decision that is now being made in this area will show that the consumer is also in a way used to the new system, so that we do not get any major costs either for the consumer or for the book clubs, in line with what we have seen in Sweden. Finally, I would like to put forward the proposals in the vote and the minority proposal by the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e130	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e133	Since there is a great deal of agreement on most of the questions within the terms of the withdrawal law, I do not intend to touch it so much in my post, just focus on the point where we disagree a little and have promoted a separate proposal together with the Center Party. Paragraph 12 of the second paragraph applies, where we propose the following wording: ‘In the case of membership of clubs and the like where there is an agreement on ongoing publications of an undetermined extent, individual orders within the scope of the membership agreement are not covered by the provisions of this Chapter.’; The Christian People's Party agrees with the purpose of the withdrawal law, that it is important to establish precisely security mechanisms that ensure consumer protection. However, we believe that exemptions from the consumer protection rules of the Consumer Rights Act must also be possible if there is a specific need for this. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not want to put stones on the burden and make the situation of the book clubs and their activities more difficult. We believe that they are doing an important job, and the government's proposal will make the business of the book clubs more difficult in this area. It is important to remember that a large part of the sale of Norwegian fiction has just taken place through membership in a book club. There are good and safe practices in this type of trade, and it is worth noting that consumers who buy books through book clubs may have as extensive information about what they buy as those who buy books in the bookstore. In other words, we can say that consumers in many ways get a better decision-making basis when buying through book clubs than when buying in stores. We also know that publishers have been particularly concerned about publishing major works since the Government promoted this proposal. The publication of works is already under threat because of the large investment associated with them, and if it is possible to choose which books of a work you want to have, it becomes a very unpredictable framework for publishers. There is also reason to remember that such a law is today, it is completely possible to undo it. You then have to pay the postage and a small fee to send a book back to where it comes from. And that's quite possible. The Christian People's Party believes that the book clubs we have in Norway today are important to ensure the distribution of Norwegian literature, a literature that is already subject to strong competition, not least from abroad. The Christian People's Party goes on this basis against the Government's proposals in this paragraph. Finally, I would like to address the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, which is in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e153	Ola T. Loans have taken up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e156	The two legislative proposals we are dealing with today provide consumers with better protection and greater rights. Ot. pp. No 62 for 1999-2000 concerns changes in the marketing law, and many will be pleased that we are now making it forbidden to charge for goods, services or benefits where a written agreement has not been concluded. The so-called catalogue sharks have created a lot of headquarters for traders over the years, and the proposed legislative change hopefully puts an end to this fraud. But there have been new ways of communicating, the Internet, e-mails, text messages, etc. in recent years. The Committee asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to investigate matters relating to the ‘spamming’ and the ‘tips a friend’ function. e-forum, a Norwegian organisation that is working to get clean conditions and joint behaviour among Norwegian online shops, is concerned about getting a thorough review of all these conditions. This was the wish of the committee to join, and so the department asked for this. The right is concerned that online commerce is taking place in a globalised market. The new economy is, of course, the characteristic of a border that has been subordinated. In this context, it is important that Norway does not introduce more stringent marketing rules in this field than other European countries. I would like to remind you that the Storting in our processed paper on electronic commerce and business. Here a Joint Nutrition Committee was set up with the following: ‘The Committee... considers Norway to be a leading country in the production and use of information and knowledge technologies. To achieve this objective, the overall framework conditions for ICT-based business must be internationally competitive.» In this context, the Right considers that stricter regulation of this type of marketing in Norway than in other European countries would weaken the ability of Norwegian companies to compete. The result may be that Norwegian businesses move their online shops abroad, either physically or by placing servers and Internet addresses in other countries with more liberal rules. In that case, it'll be a self-rescue that everyone will lose. Telephone marketing is perceived by most as a tiring mass, but the reality for many companies and not least voluntary organisations is that this is a very important way of selling their own services and products. The right does not support the proposal to determine whether to create a register where to register for this type of telephone. We believe it must be like today, that you can reserve yourself against this by being listed in a central booking register. I want to add that it may be important to check how this register actually works, and make sure that people really don't get phones when they've asked for this. After Ot.prp. No 62 was submitted, the newspapers were suddenly entitled to send out newspapers with insignia drawn in doubt. The Committee now decides that the newspapers should have this possibility. For many newspapers, this is a significant source of income, and by removing it, the newspapers would be more prominent with a mix of advertising and editorial material. If you subscribe to a newspaper, you subscribe to the entire product. The entry BA has argued strongly against this and compared it to unaddressed advertising, which the committee disagrees with. It is now prohibited to deliver unaddressed advertising in the mailboxes to those who have reserved. In the case of Ot.prp. No 36 for 1999-2000 on the right of withdrawal in the event of distance selling, the case-rapporteur has presented that matter in a good manner. I just want to add that in the case of book clubs, they are making a great effort to disseminate literature. No one doubts it, and no one opposes that claim. What we have done in this case is to give consumers an opportunity to send back books if they had forgotten to cancel. This also means that book clubs will have the same competitive conditions as online bookstores and regular bookstores. It is important to stress that the right of withdrawal has an expense also for the customers; they have to pay the cost of returning the book themselves, which will make most people choose to keep it instead of returning it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e176	SV will protect consumer rights. The advertising is getting an increasingly aggressive expression and is invading us in increasingly new areas. Our starting point, then, is like that of the others who have spoken here, that the individual should be able to decide whether a person wants to receive commercial messages in the private sphere and that consumer protection should be ensured. SV broadly agrees with the amendments proposed in the withdrawal law and the Marketing Act. I would therefore just like to justify our proposals where we do not agree, and have our own proposals. I guess we've all been upset when the phone comes in, maybe pretty much in the middle of a dinner nap, and the most professional and invading voice is going to make us buy something. Due to the element of surprise, it is easy to say yes to a purchase. In our opinion, telephone sales – and not only in our opinion, but also in the opinion of the consumer authorities – are the most aggressive marketing method to which consumers are exposed. There is a greater need for consumer protection here than for other forms of distance selling. Market research shows that nine out of ten consumers are negative to this mode of sale. A unanimous committee also states in the setting of the withdrawal law that there is a need for greater consumer protection in the case of telephone sales. So you could say that it's just to make a reservation for telephone sales. And that's right -- there's a reservation arrangement. However, SV agrees with the Consumer Ombudsman that it is reasonable that the active action should be the responsibility of the advertiser. It is true that some businesses without fixed sales are based on telephone sales. A requirement for prior consent may affect them. This suggests that transitional arrangements should be established. SV agrees with the Consumer Council, which says that the business that has made itself dependent on a marketing method of 90 pst. consumers disagree, should consider other marketing measures. On behalf of SV, I then propose a new section 2b, first paragraph, which applies to pre-consent also for telephone sales. And as a consequence, we will vote against the second paragraph of Section 2b. As far as the law on the right of withdrawal is concerned, we have a proposal for § 7(d) – and I admit that it is not a very comprehensive proposal. However, the obligation to provide information before the conclusion of a contract is applicable under all contractual terms, as the consumer authorities have also addressed, and not only ‘essential contractual terms’, as the Government and the Committee propose. The term ‘essential’ may be used, and in that case the focus is not on consumer rights. On behalf of SV, I am promoting the proposal contained in the cancellation of the Right of Withdrawal Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e197	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e200	It is to the odelstingsproposition on the marketing law that I intend to make some comments. I refer you to the statement made by the case rapporteur, Per Sandberg, and I end up with it in general. I just want to link some comments to unaddressed advertising and indemnities. It is such that there are currently no provisions of the Marketing Act which include unaddressed advertising. In this context, it is proposed to introduce a ban on unaddressed advertising to consumers who have clearly stated that this is not desirable. The Ministry has argued that unaddressed advertising is affected in any form of distribution. In relation to the right of reservation for unaddressed advertising, the Committee has proposed an additional clarifying provision relating to nodules. It is proposed that notices, which are the subject of editorial responsibility in newspapers and other printed matter, should not be regarded as unaddressed advertising. I will try to give a fundamental reason for this proposal. It follows from the whole idea of freedom of expression and editorial freedom that the legislator should be able to intervene to a very small extent in the editor's freedom to decide for himself which editorial product he or she wants to supply his or her subscribers. It must be up to the editor to decide what proportion of advertising is wanted in the newspaper. Of course, subscribers who do not like the newspaper's profile also have the opportunity to cancel their subscription. It must also be for the editor to decide whether advertising should be presented side by side with editorial material, or whether it should be collected in its own annexes, so-called institutions. Institutions that are obviously part of the main product cannot be characterised as unaddressed advertising, because you have to see it so that by signing a subscription you buy the entire product. Nor can it be seen as unaddressed because it only goes to those who subscribe, not to those who have not subscribed. The whole point is that advertising spots covered by the editor's responsibility cannot be regarded as unaddressed advertising. Should the situation arise that the newspaper distributes advertising that is not covered by editorial responsibility, it is to be seen as unaddressed advertising, which the consumer should have the opportunity to reserve himself against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e214	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See page 169 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e228	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the president suggests that there is no possibility of changing lines after each post, and that those who had to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e237	In the spring of 1993, the Stortinget dealt with the introduction of partnership laws for lesbians and gays, and the law was then passed by a large majority in Odelstinget. At that time Norway was the second country in the world, after Denmark in 1989, which passed such a law. At the beginning of the new millennium, 1,480 lesbian and gay couples lived in partnership. The number of couples using the law is strongly increasing. Now that we are dealing with changes to the Partnership Act, it is primarily about a correction after the law has worked for seven years and both strength and weaknesses have been seen in practice. When the Norwegian law was designed, it was made identical with the Danish law. And when the Swedish adopted their partnership law in 1994, they did the same. In 1999, the Danes changed their law as we will now do today, and the Swedes made their corresponding change in June. The proposed change will allow couples to enter into partnerships even if none of them are Norwegian nationals. The crucial now will be whether they have legally resided in Norway and that they have had it for the last two years before registration. In the seven years that the law has existed, there have been cases of couples who have not been allowed to enter into partnerships and thereby the possibility of a stable, regulated life, because none of them have been Norwegian citizens. Among other things, I have been told about two Swedish homofiles who have lived in Norway for over 20 years, and they have not been able to enter into a partnership. Nor have they been able to use the law in Sweden, because they have not been living there, and it has not been intended that the law should work. So now it's going to be an opportunity for them. The changes in the law we are making today bring Norway in line with the laws of Denmark and Sweden, while a number of other countries have also – or are in the process of being – given legislation similar to those of the three Nordic countries. I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e256	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e264	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 - 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e270	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ola T. Loan on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e417	Point (d) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 2, from the Socialist Left Party: «Section 7(d) of the Law of Withdrawal shall be replaced by the following:All contractual terms, including payment, delivery, or other performance of the contract, and the duration of the contract in respect of ongoing benefits.» An alternative between the setting and this proposal is first added, then the other letters of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e528	For the new second subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party: «Section 12 of the second paragraph of the Law on the Right of Withdrawal shall be replaced by the following:In the case of membership of clubs and the like where an agreement is reached on ongoing publications of an undetermined extent, individual orders are not covered by the provisions of this Chapter as part of the membership agreement.The second paragraph of Section 12 of the proposal shall become the third paragraph.» The vote will be taken first on this proposal and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e722	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e731	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e737	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 from the Party of Advancement and the Right, saying, ‘The decision asks the Government, in line with the EU Remote Sales Directive, to establish a consumer reservation register that will reserve itself against marketing requests in the form of e-mail or text message to mobile phones. The register shall also include consumers who wish to reserve themselves against telephone marketing. No prior consent shall be required in the case of telephone marketing.’;» This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e826	For the first subparagraph, two divergent proposals are made. That is proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European The proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right reads as follows: «In the Act on Marketing and Contracting Conditions, the second paragraph of Section 2(b) shall be replaced by the following:It shall be prohibited in commercial activities without the prior consent of the recipient to address marketing enquiries to consumers by means of fax or automated call system [[speak box]] The President shall state that the proposal shall relate to the first paragraph, not the second paragraph, as set out in the minutes. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 2b of the Act on Marketing and Contracting Conditions shall be replaced by the following:It is prohibited in business activities without the prior consent of the recipient to address marketing enquiries to consumers by means of telecommunications methods that allow individual communication, such as electronic mail, text message to mobile telephone, fax, automated call system or telephone.’; [[talking machine]] First, there is a vote on the proposal from the Socialist Left and then, alternatively, between the vote on the first paragraph and the proposal from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e863	The second term is addressed to voting. The Socialist Left Party has here announced that they will go against the second term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e868	It will be unnecessary to vote against this when we have participated in the first paragraph of the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e875	And then we can add up over the second and third terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e931	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e941	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e985	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e994	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01-lower.ana.ud412e1003	There is no record.
