ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e26	SV is pleased with one of the decisions to be taken today, the decision that we should spend $1 billion on patient treatment abroad. What is important about this decision is that perhaps a significant problem can be solved at our hospitals, namely that many people are in line, unnecessarily queueed – that it is possible to find a temporary solution to this problem by treating them abroad. For SV, however, this will only be measures that can solve the problem in the short term, and we want, of course – like most people in this room – that this should be resolved more permanently in Norway. And then the question is, how can you solve the kind of bottleneck problem or patient cows that we have? It is a question that I do not have the right to give a clear answer to. But it leads me into the other thing that I think is important, and for which unfortunately there is no majority in this room, and that is how you could have gotten better hospital equipment to get more efficiency and better quality of treatment in our own hospitals. The paradox happened in the revised national budget this spring that a total of 760 million were cut. kr on hospital equipment or investments for medical and technical equipment. These 760 million. kr was cut because, according to the Minister of Health, the money was not needed, there was no reported need for equipment investment by the hospital owners, mainly the county councils, in this item. Of course, that's right, but the question you have to ask is, why wasn't there a greater need for this post reported? It's not like our hospitals have the tip of modern medical equipment. Unfortunately, we see almost daily reports in the media that this is not the case. The reason for this large under-reporting is that the distribution key between hospital owners, in most cases in the state, is 40-60. This means that in hospitals and county councils, which have a very busy economy, you are very reluctant to report needs simply because you see that you want to sit with a significant part of the bill yourself. This is what SV wants to do. When we then know that hospitals have a debt of over NOK 1 billion, it is no wonder that the hospital authorities and county councils, which are to make the final decisions, are withholding this. This means that SV wants to change the distribution key between the hospital owner and the state. We believe that a reasonable distribution of this is 80 pst. on the state and 20 pst. in the case of hospitals. This means that the State assumes the primary responsibility for implementing the plans previously adopted by the Stortinget. The size has adopted a very ambitious equipment plan that is about investing SEK 5.3 billion, if I don't remember completely wrong, in this type of equipment. This means that SV wants a greater part of these costs to be borne by the state, so that we are able to get better equipment. We believe that in the longer term it is a better solution than the one for which there is a majority today, for which SV is also pleased, namely that we get to a patient bridge. But a patient bridge can never be anything but a temporary measure in a situation where we are obviously unable to treat our patients ourselves. I therefore believe it is also important for patients that we have this kind of treatment in Norway. Then, at the end of this morning's debate, I heard many different arguments used to support one and not the other, and I have to say that some of the arguments used are very arbitrary. In particular, I have to say that the argument that these are patients who are going to be treated abroad and who are therefore not helping to push the Norwegian economy is the weakest. This measure does the Storting, I hope, because it's for the benefit of the patients. It is quite obvious that no matter where in the world these patients are treated, it will lead to domestic demand both in the form of the transport of patients, in the form of medical personnel to be included, and in the form of many other measures. This is correct irrespective of its contribution to domestic demand. However, if the same argument is to be valid, it means that it should have been fully possible to purchase medical-technical equipment abroad, because it would contribute to the pressure of the Norwegian economy to the same extent – to a small extent, according to some. I think we should look a little bit more sober about this. There are measures that are right for the Storing to do, simply because it is correct, simply because action from the Storing and not further filibuster tactics is required, which some of the parties in this room have taken as an exercise. I think it's important to say that we should treat patients out there now for a period to bring down the queues. I think it's right to say that Stortinget has a general responsibility to improve the quality and efficiency of hospitals. This means, among other things: also greater State co-financing, with important investments, in order to improve quality. I am sorry that the majority of the population have unfortunately not taken part in the proposal that the Progress Party has supported – unfortunately, it does not have a majority – but I am glad, as I said, that it was a majority that we could spend NOK 1 billion to relieving patients' queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e43	The working party is that we can treat Norwegian patients abroad when we talk about patients who have waited too long for treatment in Norway, and in the case of patients where our own patient base is too small to allow it to build up an offer of good enough quality. We are not to build a system of foreign treatment to such an extent that it removes the basis for the operation of our ordinary hospitals. Norwegian patients will quickly lose weight on it. Treatment of Norwegian patients in other countries therefore needs to be carefully planned, inter alia. from the following: capacity and quality in countries we want to send patients to commitments with the countries concerned which patients it is appropriate and possible to treat without an analysis and an assessment of a better use of their own hospital health care situation the need for accompanying guarantee schemes in cases of mistreatment, etc. Today, we have unacceptable cows within individual groups of patients. We have to do something about this. Foreign treatment can be one form of intervention, the use of own hospitals another. Thus, some of the queues constitute patients who for purely practical or medical reasons, such as: a requirement for a certain time interval, e.g. re-checking, shall be on a waiting list for a specified period of time. We're not going to send this patient group abroad. We should also remember the experience from previous patient bridge projects, up to 40 pst. of the patients cleared for foreign treatment would not be sent abroad for treatment. This means that we need to be very focused on picking out patients who will benefit from being treated quickly abroad. Unfortunately, we have too many people in line waiting for psychiatric treatment. We're not going to send these away. On the contrary, we must do what we have already decided in Stortinget, namely to build up the capacity and quality both in hospitals and in municipalities. Now figures for the waiting list situation show that most patients receive treatment within deadlines that appear to be fully medically sound. Patients with very severe disorders are usually taken into consideration for evaluation and treatment very quickly. The average waiting time for all patients on the waiting list is now less than three months. The Workers' Party takes seriously the Patient Rights Act, which enters into force on 1 January 2001. The Labour Party proposed, inter alia: the following should be used as a premise for entitlement to treatment: «The patient shall receive the necessary health care within a period of time related to sound medical judgement.» The proposal also received the consent of Stortingen. We are still in favour of this, and that is why we are opening up our health services by opening up foreign treatment. This is to be done in parallel with the steps that the workers' party government is now taking to improve our health care system. We need predictability in hospitals' finances. Hospital departments may not be laid down or swinged as the changes in the county economy take place. We need good quality and sufficient capacity regardless of county boundaries. We need a sensible division of labour. We need consistency between responsibility for financing patient treatment and responsibility for operation. The black player between levels must end. All of this takes care of the Health Minister Tore Tønne, the Government and the Workers' Party's large-scale group by taking initiatives to implement the hospital reform of the times. As regards the rules on international treatment, the Stortinge has established this through a case in Odelstinget in 1998. It's about Innst. O. No 21 for 1997-98 on changes in, inter alia: family benefits relating to contributions to treatment abroad and the county municipality's obligation to cover treatment costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e101	Let me first stress that I am positively prepared to take advantage of the opportunities available to Norwegian patients to receive satisfactory treatment in good hospitals abroad. I've also said that before, in the spring session here in Stortinget. I noticed that the representative Hagen in his post earlier today used an expression that I finally “get my finger out” after his proposal was made and was duly advertised. I will be a little careful with such expressions here in the Chamber, but would like to make sure that as Minister of Health I have intended to keep it out all the time in this case, and that the representative Hagen's proposals in this regard have had no significance. But as the representative Foss pointed out, this is not a new idea, and I'm not going to try in any way to assume any danger. However, shortly after my accession, I took the initiative, at least, to clarify the possibilities for patient treatment abroad that may be relevant, and what conditions must be met in order for us to take advantage of such opportunities. The question was also discussed in St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, which was presented on 14 April – a few weeks after the Government joined – and discussed when the Stortinget considered the position in the case on 13 June. As I said on that occasion, there are two main reasons why treatment abroad can get a certain amount. Firstly, it may be based on pure capacity problems in Norway. Secondly, there may be specialised treatment arrangements in areas where we have relatively few patients in Norway or where we choose not to build up a Norwegian treatment service. In addition, of course, there may be very special situations where it is necessary to purchase treatment services abroad. In all these cases, it may be very useful to exploit treatment opportunities abroad. At the same time, I must stress that the basic principle of Norwegian health policy should be that the needs of the population for hospital services should generally be met in Norway. However, treatment abroad will be a useful complement to our own capacity and competence. So even if there is free capacity, I think you should be aware that a comprehensive treatment scheme abroad is not completely straightforward. For the first time, it requires clarification, including, where appropriate, agreements with the health authorities of the respective countries, as well as specific agreements with the individual hospitals. After all, they have not built up their capacity in view of patients from Norway. On the Norwegian side, good arrangements must be established for referral and follow-up after treatment abroad. Responsibilities must be clarified and insurance schemes established. All these are technical and legal issues for which appropriate solutions will be available. The aim of any treatment scheme abroad must be to improve Norwegian patients’ opportunities for good treatment when they need it. In this context, it is necessary to place the essential emphasis on the safety of the full adequacy of medical treatment. Furthermore, it is necessary to focus on good practical solutions in terms of transport, accompanying and follow-up. Let me also stress that patient treatment abroad places great demands on control measures to prevent, among other things, the transmission and spread of infection. antibiotic resistant bacteria. This is a very sensitive area where we can't accept any increased risk. I have already received questions in Stortinget's Question Time from the representative Alvheim about how to secure against such threats. I stress again that it is very important to take advantage of the opportunities for good patient treatment abroad, and that there will be arrangements for it. I interpret the proposal now under consideration as a clear support for this work. However, it appears that the establishment of safe and practical arrangements for such treatment is demanding. I therefore warn against taking unnecessary risks by going too fast. The amount proposed for such schemes is very large. A decision to grant this will be followed up as quickly and effectively as possible. However, in the light of the considerations I have described, I assume that the Storting will understand that it is not possible to use such an amount in the current year. It is also currently uncertain as to what can be a realistic measure in 2001. However, there should be no doubt that patient treatment schemes abroad will be established as soon as possible, so that opportunities can be exploited for the benefit of Norwegian patients who need it and are interested in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e125	It may well be that the Minister of Health will not add any importance to the progress of the Progress Party on this proposal for the treatment of patients abroad, but I am fully aware that he has registered for a long time that this proposal has been under consideration in the Storting, and that several other parties have agreed that this might be supported. I also assume that the Minister of Health has done his preparations for this patient bridge, which is now thought to have started. Unlike other speakers here, I don't think this is going to be a temporary matter. I think we need to rely on treatment abroad maybe over several years to get up-to-date with patient queues in Norway. My question to the Minister of Health is this: how long does the Department need to send the first patients abroad for treatment, and then I'm talking about the current year? I would like an answer to that, because I assume that this is already thought through and prepared in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e132	I expect that the first patients within an established system can be sent to treatment abroad in the current year. More specifically, I think it is wrong for me to be, all the time we have not yet concluded the necessary agreements with the competent authorities and the hospitals concerned, but I feel confident that this can happen in the current year. However, some extent in the current year I do not think we can count on it to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e137	I think it was a very interesting and good post that the Minister of Health made now. If you ignore the conclusion that his party has reached, I can join in all the essentials of what he said. I also noticed that the Minister of Health as a starting point for using this possibility for a larger element of foreign treatment, said something such as that what is to be at the bottom must be that Norwegian patients should receive good treatment in good time. We now have behind us the adoption of a patient rights law that is waiting for its regulations. It is therefore very important and interesting that the Minister of Health now emphasised something that I find to be very much in favour of the Right and, indeed, the Advance Party's alternative to the right to health care in the new Patient Rights Act – that when Norwegian patients cannot receive treatment in Norway within a reasonable period of time, they should have it abroad. I hope that the regulations that will now come into the new Patient Rights Act will follow up what has been not only the Right’s View, but also the majority in the Social Committee’s position, namely – as Mr Kristoffersen also said – that patients should be treated within a medically-technically justified time limit. I want to ask the Minister of Health if he can confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e148	What I can confirm is that the goal of the arrangements established for patient treatment abroad is that the patients who need it and are interested in it should receive the treatment they need when they need it. With regard to the concept of right in this connection, I will be a little careful from the Stockholm pulpit to consider an interpretation of the Patient Rights Act. But I think there may be limitations to the law as to how far you can go when it comes to attaching rights to that type of treatment. I don't think that just in a regulation based on the Patient Rights Act you can establish such a right. Then I think that Stortinget must re-treat the law itself. But once again, what I can confirm is that the aim of the arrangements being established is that the patients in Norway who do not receive the treatment they need within a reasonable period of time in Norwegian hospitals should be able to be treated in the hospitals and in the countries with which we have established agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e155	It is tempting to ask the Minister of Health if he would have started this patient bridge if he had not received this proposal for supplementary funding, because in that case he would have run into considerable financial problems. But first of all, I'm going to focus on a slightly different issue. Hospitals' prerequisites for operating are that they have funds for investment as well as for operation. With regard to hospital operational resources, there is a lot of evidence today that there has been a growth in the hospital sector that there is reason to consider a variety of attention. The effectiveness is also not very close to what it should have been. Many may also suggest that treatment is too high and that with a better primary health service and measures around the municipalities, some of the bedtime could have been reduced and some of the treatment would have been out in the municipalities. At the same time, on the investment side, it is quite obvious that a number of Norwegian hospitals have too poor equipment. Hospitals have too poor building mass and, as when drilling for oil in the North Sea, they need significant investment to renew equipment and buildings in order to be in time and able to carry out their tasks. You're totally dependent on getting the hospital equipment renewed. I record that the Minister of Health received a question from his party colleague Asmund Kristoffersen in the spontaneous Question Time on 1 November. The Minister of Health then said that they were doing well, and that they were fully in line with the order of equipment for the hospitals. At the same time, we are hearing from regional health owners so late as today at a hearing in the Social Committee that several states are in such an economic situation that they are unable to order equipment. My question is: what is the Minister of Health's reason that the Workers' Party does not want to go into a system of greater government funding – 80 pst., as proposed by the Socialist Left – which should, of course, be entirely in line with a greater state commitment, as the Workers' Party has now addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e166	Since the representative Ballo found it tempting to ask if I would have taken action for treatment abroad without this proposal, I find it tempting to take the opportunity to reply that I would have done so. It's a work that's been going on. I have never used the concept of a patient bridge, but measures for the treatment of Norwegian patients according to the guidelines I have been given here in the past would have come. I can't see that it would have brought me into special economic problems, but of course it is a matter that I would have come to the Stortinget with when it was prepared to such a level that it was natural to present it. With regard to the second relationship that Mr Ballo raised, it is a budgetary question. What I want to repeat here is that we are following the equipment plan that the Storting has adopted, which is in line with the guidelines that follow from the Storting decision. And we follow that plan, as I've been informed now, to the point and the point – we're even in the front. I also refer to the feedback we receive on the plans of county councils for the acquisition of hospital equipment. There are some county councils that lie behind, and there are others that lie a little ahead. But in general, this plan is fully followed, and we have every reason to believe that it will also be the case when the years for which the plan is planned are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e174	The Minister of Health talks about arrangements as a result of the decision that Stortinget is likely to make tonight to make money available – what it is not in the budget. I assume that the Minister of Health will also assess whether funds – money – of what we grant today can be made available to our existing hospitals. Several of them certainly have contact with hospitals in other countries. Extensive ministerial arrangements may not be necessary, as hospitals already cooperate with hospitals in other countries in certain cases. But what these hospitals lack to use hospitals in other countries, if any, is money to pay the bills. Is there anything wrong with trying to make flexible arrangements where existing, possibly regional hospitals cooperate with hospitals in other countries, possibly private, that this can be started much faster? Are there any objections to not doing this too complicated and bureaucratic, but simply using the existing apparatus and channels? That's the first question. And then the Health Minister said that he would have done these things anyway, regardless of this decision the Stortinget now understands. What chapters of the 2001 budget do the Minister of Health refer to where he would have the funds available to implement a relatively large payment of treatment in other countries, which chapter of the State budget he would use, and what amount of that chapter would he use for the purchase of treatment capacity in other countries in 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e183	The representative, Hagen, is raising two questions here. The answer to the first is that the arrangements we see here will not only be based on cooperation with Norwegian hospitals, I think they will even be conditional on cooperation with Norwegian hospitals both in terms of the arrangements themselves, and also in terms of the subsequent follow-up of patients who have been treated abroad. In this respect, of course, I will consider all the flexibility necessary to achieve this as quickly as possible. As for the second question, I had initially thought that it was necessary to describe the arrangements we are talking about here, in a proper way, and then put forward proposals for the Storting when the work was done. I actually wasn't aware that it could happen this way. When that is the case, as I said in my article, we will of course follow up quickly on the use of the funds that here seem to be adopted. But initially, I thought that this should be investigated and then presented to the Stortinget as a separate proposal, either in a separate proposal when the proposal was clear, or possibly that it could have been promoted in the context of the revised budget in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e192	I'm a little confused by listening to the different posts from the leader of the financial fraction and now from the Health Minister Tore Tønne. I had the impression that when the leader of the finance committee had posted today, he was very clear that this could not be started in the current year, and I also quote from the Labour Party's comments in the vote: ‘These members refer to the answer letter from the Minister of Finance’... ‘where it is said that the effect of such a scheme will not be possible in the current year, but that much of the framework around a scheme can be clarified this year and that ‘the scheme will be operational most of 2001’. Then, from the Ministry of Finance's side, a clear lead. I expect to respond that this cannot be operational this year, went to the Minister of Health before they were forwarded to the Finance Committee. But now, suddenly, the Minister of Health here today says that this can be started in the next year. That's what I think is great! And then my question is: is not the Minister of Health happy that it can be done this way, and that he could get these money to get this work going faster? At least I am very happy that patients are getting help faster than they would have if one were going that way and the round health minister signaled. Has this proposal from Carl I. Hagen and the fact that one sees that there will be multiples for it, been progressing in the process, so that patients will receive help and surgery in 2000 and will not have to wait far beyond the year 2001 to get this help? What has changed the situation, and why is there a difference between what the health minister now says, and the leader of the financial committee, Dag Terje Andersen, said earlier today – and also what is in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e202	I do not think there is any contradiction between the chairman of the financial committee and I have said about this matter. I also said in my post that I assume that the Storting will understand that it will not be possible to spend as much in the current year as the Stortinget seems to grant on the current year's budget. That's not possible. On questions here I have also said that I believe it will be possible to send the first patients to treatment in a foreign hospital already this year under schemes established by Norwegian health authorities. It will have no significant scope, and I have to make it clear that we have not yet concluded the necessary agreements with the authorities and hospitals of the country concerned. But I have faith that we'll be able to get so far that we can do it in the current year. If it's about the effect of a budget of NOK 1 billion that is decided upon at this time of the year, I must again ask for the Stortingen's understanding that I think it will be very limited in the current year. All of this will be significant arrangements that will apply in 2001. On the question of whether these proposals have had any impact on progress, I have to say that we have worked on this issue as quickly as we have been able, and that is not how to understand that this is a work that has begun and has not changed its character in relation to what we have opportunity and capacity, compared to what we originally put up for. I have also stated in the past that I think we might be able to start the first patient treatment in the current year, but as I said only to a limited extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e214	I note that a concerted increase wants a significant increase in the volume of purchases of operations abroad, and that the disagreement is about the activity, which will mainly take place in 2001, to be budgeted for the 2001 budget in line with the Financial Regulation of the Grand Duchy, or whether it is to be budgeted for the 2000 budget in breach of the Financial Regulation of the Grand Duchy. In the answers to questions from the Labour Party and the Right prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and sent to the Stortinget on 1 November this year, it appears that a patient bridge cannot get started in the current year, with the limitations that the Minister of Health has now described, but you can get a quick start. There are a number of questions that need to be resolved, including: the countries and hospitals with which contracts are to be drawn up, the conditions under which these contracts are to be governed, and not least the patients deemed necessary to be sent out, as the Minister for Health also stated in his statement. In response, it is estimated, on a very uncertain basis, that according to today’s waiting list situation, the cost of treatment and transport could reach a maximum of DKK 1.1 billion in 2001. The maximum estimate also means that a significant number of outpatients will in that case be sent abroad. For these patients, there would probably be a better solution for a fetched foreign health professional to Norway. The funds are proposed by the majority of the Committee formally allocated for the year 2000, but the allocation is proposed to be made transferable. It is not realistic, as confirmed by the Minister of Health in the reply, that this allocation can be used in 2000, as the allocation is so late in the year. The part of the appropriations that may be used in the current year will be purely administrative expenditure related to the preparation/organisation of a patient bridge and, where appropriate, a smaller proportion to get started, as the Minister for Health was concerned. So this could be a limited number of millions of dollars. The proposal for a budget of DKK 1 billion is therefore contrary to the Financial Regulation of the Grand Duchy, which expressly presupposes that it is to be budgeted realistically. That means that one should not grant more than one knows one can use in the financial year in question. The government is seeking to deal with the guidelines drawn up by the Storting. In the discussion related to the purchase of healthcare abroad, it is stated from several teams that this will not have an impact on the Norwegian economy. It is therefore argued that government appropriations for such measures should be kept completely out of the question when assessing the extent to which the State budget stimulates the domestic economy. I believe this far from being so obvious. A number of aspects of the foreign treatment regime could also affect the Norwegian economy, although they have less impact than some other measures. For example, we have to. be able to assume that many, perhaps most of those who will travel abroad to be operated on will need a companion during the journey and stay. In many cases, one must also be able to assume that there is a desire or a need for professional escorts, i.e.: health professionals. If Norwegian health professionals are used as escorts, it will first reduce the capacity of the Norwegian health care system and thus increase the pressure in this part of the labour market. We must take into account here that access to Norwegian health professionals is being weakened, not only during the stay abroad itself, but also by the need to provide the health workers concerned with satisfactory conditions for resuscitation, etc. when they return to the country. We're not going to underestimate these effects that show that there's a connection, even though there's different ways to allocate money, different effects of activity on the economy. Furthermore, many patients need rehabilitation or other follow-up when they come home. Where appropriate, it will require resources and increased budgetary resources. I have also registered that infectious diseases can require special follow-up of patients when they return to Norway. When it comes to issues relating to health policy issues, I refer you to the article of the National Council for Tonne. I also note that in this case there is a close co-consenting magnification that agrees with the underlying intention, but that chooses to express itself differently from the moment of the appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e227	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e230	First of all, I understand that both the Minister of Finance and the Workers' Group have been involved. The finance minister now said that they were very busy following this. After all, it must be that his own government at the Minister for Health has not complied with the regulations on the allocation, because the Minister for Health has just said that he had planned to come to the Stortingen with this scheme fully investigated in the context of the revised national budget. And when, in so far as he did not answer my question, he has confirmed that there is no money in the 2001 budget, there must be a mistake. If the Council of State has already planned to come to Stortinget with a scheme and appropriations for 2001 at a later date, it should have been notified and included in the budget now, since it was planned from the Government that in 2001 it would be used for the purchase of treatment capacity abroad, but that it could not be implemented until June. However, 2001 is also between June and December, and if the Government and the Council of State had planned to spend some money on this in 2001, it should have been notified and included in a chapter of the 2001 budget. Can I then interpret it there that either the Government admits that it has not complied with the eligibility rules, or is it such that the Government had not planned to do anything with the treatment of patients abroad before the end of the year 2001-2002? One of these things must be the right thing to do — either it was not planned to do anything until the 2002 budget, or it has been breached by the regulation itself by not notifying such a commitment already in the budget. And the last question is, why can't the government be involved in eradicating the debt of Norwegian hospitals in the same way as deleting the debt of the Gardermoban because the activity had already taken place? That was the reason why the Minister of Finance wrote out NOK 7 billion in debt to the Gardermoban.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e239	With regard to the question of the Gardermoban, if I don't remind you wrong, the representative Foss was also inside that boundary in his reply to the representative Hagen. Deleting debt from the country to the country is improperly different from eradicating debt that bodies other than government have, where a different level of impact on other activities does not have the same effect. It is quite clear that the effect of erasing debt in the county or local government sector has a different effect than erasing debt of a state company to the State for activities already taking place. Then to the question of the eligibility rules. To the extent that the Government has taken a position to implement a measure from a fixed date, it is, of course, so that it is disclosed and taken into account in the budget. The Health Minister explained that he was preparing a basis for such a position and would come back when he thought the matter was sufficiently prepared. He made it clear that it could happen either in a proposition or in a revised national budget. Then, of course, it would also be so that the government had to get room for such an activity. And let me remind you that this government hasn't exactly been accused that we haven't been able to get room for the activity that we think there's a need to do. I can therefore assure the representative Hagen that we would have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e246	I listened with great interest to the statements both from the Minister of Health and from the Minister of Finance. But I could not avoid being turned off by the fact that there was a substantial difference in the approach, as far as the Minister of Health made all the good arguments for the conclusion recommended by a majority of the Committee, including the Government Party, that it is right to open up a considerable effort to treatment abroad, while the Minister of Finance made all the counter-representations that logically could only lead to one conclusion, namely an absolute no to the same. Now this is, of course, an internal medical problem for the Government that does not have to worry about the Storting. I assume that the fact that the Government Party has joined the majority of the Committee in favour of this means that it is the position of the Minister of Health that is the Government's position in the matter. But I want to ask, because I noticed that the Minister of Health in his speech used as a justification for the correctness of investing in treatment abroad that it may be based on, as he said, ‘pure capacity problems in Norway’. And now the majority in the Committee’s position has used the wording that they ‘approve to allow patients to receive the necessary health care, within a time limit related to sound medical judgement, abroad’. This is the exact wording of the position promoted by the Right in the context of the Patient Rights Act, and the fact that the majority has now acceded to this wording should, in fact, mean that, in the future, it is considered that this should be a fundamentally justified position. Or is it the government's view that this is a conditional position related to the fluctuations in world oil prices? Is it such that, in the future, this will be the basis of Norwegian health policy, or is it a mere improvisation from the Government's point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e253	Let me first say that I can't see that at any point there is any contradiction between what the Health Minister said, and what I said, nor any contradiction between what we, as representatives of the Government, expressed, and the position of the Workers' Party during the consideration of the matter in this Chamber. And then I have to be allowed to refer to the Workers' Party's comments in the setting, where it says: ‘These members agree to allow patients to receive the necessary health care within a period of time related to sound medical judgement abroad. These members therefore believe that it would be natural for a significant increase in the volume of purchases of operations abroad to be linked to the ordinary treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge for 2001.’» In other words, it is not that the Workers’ Party or the Government has expressed that there is an increase in treatment abroad. On the contrary, the representatives of the Labour Party in the Committee and both the Minister for Health and I have stressed in this debate that the Government believes that an increase in such treatments would be right. The Minister of Health has also made it known that he was preparing a basis for this. Of course, there is no contradiction between the fact that I have emphasised that it must be seen in relation to the ordinary budgetary practice, and that it should remain within the Financial Regulation of the Grand Duchy, and that if it is to be an activity that takes place in 2001, it should be included in the 2001 budget or included in the 2001 budget during the year, as the Minister of Health has said he was open to assessment when his investigation was completed. This expressed the Government, and this is what the Workers' Party's fraction in the Committee has expressed. I can therefore not see that there is any such contradiction that the representative gives the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e264	You might have to be a little careful to interpret the obvious difference that lies in the post of the Council of State Tune in relation to the post of the Council of State Schjøtt-Pedersen, but it's hard to understand the Minister of Finance differently from the fact that he doesn't think there's any particular wise decision the Stortinget is about to make. But now it's not up to the Council of States to have any sense of it, because there's a safe majority here in the Grand Duchy who chooses to do what you do. But sometimes you can get a bit of special experiences when the Stortinge here almost above the table grants DKK 1 billion without any interference to an important measure, and you think of all the nights you've been sitting in the finance committee or in other committees where you're going to move thousands of units to try to find the sacred budget balance and discover everything else you're going to do about activities in Norwegian society. You kind of get a little surrealistic attitude when you spend $1 billion on this table, but it would have been completely irresponsible in any other context just to grant 100 million. kr without containment. We are pleased that the decision now exists, but what might have been interesting to know is, of course, how the Minister of Finance takes care of the follow-up to this decision. Does that mean that he will come back to Stortinget with a specific discovery of this, or does he think that this is an activity that the state budget can bear and that he will thus take off the great fortune of the state to cover it? In this way I understood from an earlier answer that he believed that this must also be seen within a responsible budget framework, and that means that he intended to find a cure. I would assume that a finance minister will find it opportunistic in any case. What could also have been interesting to know – as the Storting is now doing what is called a very irresponsible decision by any political will – is whether the Minister of Finance considers this to be an irresponsible decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e275	A budget of NOK 1 billion should of course have been covered in. It should have been allocated in the budget for 2001 and in relation to the ordinary budgetary procedure for 2001, so that it was granted in the year in which the activity takes place. It is also the aim of the Financial Regulation of the EEAS to ensure sound budgetary management. I note that a majority in the Grand Duchy chooses to grant the amount in the budget for 2000. A majority of the Grand Duchy also chooses to make it transferable. I take as my starting point that it is the will of the Storting. The Workers' Group has expressed disagreement in that view. The Government takes note of the majority view of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e280	There has also been a talk about the containment of this. Now there are likely to be some additional proposals for final balancing of the 2000 budget. It might have been interesting to know whether the Minister of Finance has in his head about how much revenue side of the 2000 budget is being changed compared to the budget originally adopted from November to December last year. We have suggested in our proposal, which is the basis for this debate, that revenue from the original budget rises to nearly NOK 100 billion. It might have been interesting to know if that's right, because then what we're using now is just 1 pst. In the case of equipment acquisitions, which the Minister of Finance has not been involved in, the spring part, as the representative Ballo was involved in, was given a number of 700 million cut by the majority. kr in equipment acquisitions because they would not be used. The reason was that the county councils did not have enough funds for their 40 pst. share of equipment acquisitions, which could be said to have no effect. Collections from hospitals that our social fraction has done have led to the fact that we have been informed from approx. 40 hospitals that they could have purchased hospital equipment for something over 700 million kroner. kr in the current year, but the county authorities did not have money for their 40 pst. share. I noticed that the Minister of Health kept talking about the county municipalities where we're talking about the hospitals. When this is the situation and when the state has such wealth of money, does not the Minister of Finance also think that it would be appropriate to change this distribution of hospital equipment acquisitions? We have joined a proposal from SV for the current year on a distribution key of 80 pst. on the state and 20 pst. in the counties, and we ourselves propose in our budget for the next year 90-10. Why, then, is the Government opposed to facilitating the provision of equipment for Norwegian hospitals for the benefit of patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e287	Now it is known that the Workers' Party has a somewhat more liberal framework for the general activity of the counties than that of the Advance Party, so I don't think the difference in the ability to finance is much worse with the Workers' Party's arrangements, rather the opposite. On the issue of equipment acquisition, I have to point out that, in the context of the revised budget, transfers from previous years were referred to, which was an important reason for the need for minor appropriations for the current year. So the representative Hagen takes up his traditional view that revenue is increasing. Yes, they do, revenue increases significantly as a result of high oil revenues. But if you were to follow Mr. Hagen's reasoning, we would have to set up our economic policy in line with the fluctuating revenue on the state budget – up when the oil price went up, given a solid production, and down when the oil price went down. This is also an important illustration of why the Progress Party, not to say Hagen's, economic policy, would go so wrong. The position of the Labour Party and all the other parties in terms of economic policy arrangements is, of course, that it needs to be structured in such a way as to spend as much money as the economy is able to take on, and not as Hagen says, that it is just to pummel on whether there are resources in society that are suitable to accept this use of money or not. And so the result of the economic policy of the Progress Party is that prices will increase and that interest rates for people will increase most. The economic policy of the Progress Party is a recipe for young people to have significant financial problems due to higher interest rates, with the result that many will have to leave their homes. It is an economic policy in which the Labour Party disagrees, it is an economic policy in which I note that all the other parties in this House, except the Advance Party, disagree. I think the Norwegian people should be very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e296	I take note that the Minister of Finance agrees with the Minister of Health and the Minister of Health with the Minister of Finance, and that the Government agrees with the Workers' Group. What I didn't get quite clear is what you agree on. That is why I asked the question, but I did not get an answer to it. Is it agreed that this should be a policy based on principle for the future, or should it be improvised for one financial year? The reason why I ask the question is that when we dealt with the Patient Rights Act, the then Center Administration and the Workers' Party made a compromise that led to us now having a rather strange legal formula that says that the patient is entitled to treatment within the prescribed time limit if there is capacity. That's the strangest legal definition of a right that we have in Norwegian law. Therefore, I noticed that the Minister of Health used the wording in his statement that ‘clean capacity problems in Norway’ may be a reason for buying treatment abroad. It is precisely where one goes far beyond the legal wording of which the Labour Party and Centre compromised. And I think that is a very interesting question for Norwegian patients. Does this mean that there should be a patient’s right, regardless of whether the capacity of the domestic Norwegian system is at all times large enough or not? Should the individual patient be entitled to appropriate medical treatment independently within a medically fixed time limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e303	To the extent that it would help clarify the salary of the representative, I would like to reiterate once again that the Workers' Party is for increased processing capacity abroad, but at the same time to pay the bill – not to circumvent the budget regulation by granting a year's non-use of the money. When it comes to improvisation issues, my counter-question to the representative becomes Wage: What is Right's View? The representative Foss made it clear in his post and in the subsequent reply that his ambition was to have sufficient capacity in Norway to treat the patients in need of treatment, not that the objective should be a sustainable treatment offer abroad. That, I think, is a more constructive approach. Then I record that the Stortinget has not changed the patient rights law in this treatment. The law stands firm. However, the Minister of Health has made it clear that there is a need to develop a system to provide patients with a better range of services. However, offering those patients who have a need is not the same as establishing a legal right for these patients to whom they can refer. This is a distinction that I think is essential, and which it is also important to include in the further treatment. At the same time, it is important today when the various parties in this debate discuss who will do so and who will do what, to note that there is a unanimous increase in the desire to provide an increased treatment capacity for those patients who need it. But it is therefore a different follow-up to the allocation regulations that, as far as I know, a unanimous increase has initially been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e312	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e317	I think it is right in today's situation to grant NOK 1 billion for treatment abroad to reduce waiting lists in Norwegian hospitals. We simply don't want patients, many with painful illness, to wait unnecessarily long for treatment if we can offer it abroad. However, the goal must be to provide such treatment in Norway as soon as possible. This must happen for the patient, because the little experience we have with free hospital choice suggests that most people want treatment near the home. In addition, not all conditions are suitable for or all patients seeking treatment abroad. However, also in the interests of Norwegian health care, it is important to target full treatment capacity in Norway. We have to have a health care system that gives the country's inhabitants the offer they need here in the country. To the extent that we export patients, we also export experience and competence that we would like to have in our own healthcare system. It is also a cross-section of thought that there are reports of vacant capacity in Norwegian hospitals. Another important factor is that Norway is in a particularly fortunate situation with regard to the low prevalence of resistant and multi-resistant bacteria. Other countries, including Europe, have a much higher incidence of such microbes. 5-10 pst. Inpatients tend to develop hospital infections, and hospital bacteria are often among the most resistant. There is therefore a risk that multi-resistant microbes will be included in the load when patients come home from abroad after treatment. This requires bacteriological monitoring and, where appropriate, homecoming treatment, and treatment of infections with multi-resistant bacteria is expensive and unfortunately not always successful. In this context, it may be mentioned that an action in the proposal for an action plan to combat antibiotic resistance is to cooperate with other countries to influence the EU pharmaceutical authorities to adopt a more stringent approach to the authorisation of antibiotics. We have to be prepared for these relationships when we choose to send patients abroad. The conclusion must be that we do not build up a device that contributes to sedentating treatment abroad as part of Norwegian health policy, but that we do what we can to increase the capacity and activity of health services in Norway, so that we can take care of ourselves those who need treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e330	I realized that the Minister of Health said that he had thought the same thing about getting a treatment abroad. He chose quite another word, and he had so far not got the field down the mind of the paper. The Minister of Finance's replication was that the thoughts that the Minister of Health had thought, and that is, the majority of people here intend to put into practice, disagreed with the Workers' Party. This is still the case, I think, by listening to both councils, very unclear to find out what the Labour Party really thinks about this matter – whether you see what the Minister of Health has thought and what the majority of people are putting into life, which is profitable, or whether that is what the Minister of Finance says, that these thoughts really shouldn't have been thought of. And you could just think about it a little bit more. In any case, it is a failure statement that it is necessary for the Storting to grant a billion dollars in order to receive treatment abroad, considering that there are 84 hospitals in a country with a population no higher than half of London. It says quite a lot about us being able to organize our health care system in a way that is in no way in line with what the population should be entitled to. Of course, there is a need for significant reforms in the Norwegian health system, not least in relation to the coordination between the hospital level and the primary health service. A number of the conditions that people get into hospitals today have nothing to do with them, they should have been treated in the municipalities, they should have been taken care of partly through home-based care with quite simple means, but the municipalities lack resources to do so. Many patients should have been discharged from hospitals a long time ago. Recently there was a report in the NRK Nordnytt about a patient who had been at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø for over a year with an infection that could have been treated at a hospital. Such examples could have provided many of them, but it is clear that the Minister of Health has significant challenges to address, not only by looking at a transfer of hospitals in Norway to the state, but also by working together between the various hospital units and between hospitals and the primary level so that it is unnecessary to do what the majority of people now have to do. Of course, it may not be useful to put in a treatment system abroad over time, so that people have to travel more and more to get treatment for some of the banal disorders. Most — it shows a number of studies — want treatment as close to the home as possible, and then it must be expected that there will be upgrading of Norwegian hospitals, not least on the equipment side. Unfortunately, we see that the Workers' Party, which wants a state acquisition of the hospitals, does not want to participate in the SV's proposal that a larger proportion of equipment investments take place under the control of the State. However, it is hoped that the reformer will also make progress in relation to increased funds both for building stock and equipment in Norwegian hospitals, so that we prevent the need for a permanent patient bridge abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e345	The Minister of Finance raised in his last reply the question of whether the Right’s position is primarily that we should have sufficient capacity in our domestic Norwegian healthcare system, or whether it is primarily that we should send out patients on a permanent basis. The answer is none of the parts. The right-hand position is that the patient's needs are to be decisive. That is precisely why we advocated a definition of the patient’s right to treatment, which should ensure that patients, when suffering from serious diseases, should be guaranteed timely treatment. In our opinion, this is part of the health criterion on which the law applies. If the treatment is not given in due time, it is also not medically sound, because it means that the prospects for a positive outcome for the patient are significantly worse than if the treatment is given in a timely manner. Our thinking is also that if you had defined this as a right for patients, it would in itself put a considerable pressure on the Storting to follow up the development of the health service at home. It is clear that no one is interested in the large amount of money over time being used to purchase healthcare abroad if it is possible to provide the services better and, where appropriate, cheaper at home. But then the legislator would have placed a significant obligation on itself in respect of the other side of the Storting's business, namely the granting authority. The starting point must, in my opinion, be in principle the needs of the users. That's why we have a healthcare service, and that's why we might buy healthcare abroad – that's because users have a need. Therefore, the answer is that the principle position is not to doubt the development of our home health care system or to buy services out. The principle position is that all Norwegian patients who need sound medical treatment should have that need met.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e354	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e362	The cancellation goes to voting in the cases on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e371	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Day Danielsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Lisbet Ruggtvedt on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to develop ethical guidelines for Norwegian enterprises abroad and instruments to promote their follow-up. The decision asks the Government to determine which body will be most suitable for monitoring the follow-up of the guidelines.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e392	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring also the negative freedom of organisation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e465	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, the proposals No. 2-4, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party Before we go to voting, the President will note that he has recorded that in the vote as well as in the debate it has been referred to the Appropriations Regulation. However, the Financial Regulation does not deter the Storting from taking individual decisions derogating from the provisions of the Regulation, but Paragraph 1 requires derogations in that case to be made by express decisions in plenary. On this basis, the President considers that the Stortinget should decide to derogate from Section 4 of the Appropriations Regulation and therefore proposes the following: ‘In the process of Innst. S. No Paragraph 4 of the Financial Regulation shall be waived.’.» [[2000-2001]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e490	I made a mistake. I should have the voice for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e495	Then there will be 60 votes in favour and 40 against the President's proposal. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «aThe decision of the Storting on excise duties to the State Treasury for the 2000 budgetary period shall be amended as from 15 November 2000: REFERENCE TO MOTOR VEHICLES M.M.V. The second subparagraph of Section 1 of petrol is replaced by the following: From 15 November 2000, under the law of 19 May 1933, it shall be: 11 is paid to the State Treasury on petrol. Fee is paid at the following amount per. litre: (a) For leaded petrol with a lead content exceeding 0,05 g/l: kr 2,02.b) For leaded petrol with a lead content of 0,05 g/l or less than: kr 1,48.c) For unleaded petrol: kr 1,23. VI, VI, Fee on mineral oil for use in the propulsion of motor vehicles [[autodiesel fee]] Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner5536Taxes on motor vehicles, etc.76Taxes on petrol, reduced by 550 000 00077 Fees on mineral oil for propulsion of motor vehicles [[autodiesel fee]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.Post Purpose:Croner732 Cancellation of deficits in Norwegian hospitals and to ensure full capacity utilisation in Norwegian hospitals, estimate allocation, granted at 2 000 000 000 ’ [[New]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘A State Office for the purchase of medical operations and services from abroad shall be set up with effect from 15 November 2000 with the task of organising the purchase of operational capacity and medical services from hospitals and healthcare institutions abroad for patients who have to wait more than 2 months for necessary treatment in Norway, as well as developing procedures for the quality assurance and organisation of transport and residence for patients and, where appropriate, for relatives. [[SKKMOTU]] bb The State budget for 2000 is amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:Croner736 State Office for the Purchase of Medical Operations and Services from the rest of the world 1Operating costs, may be carried over, granted by 2000000060Aids to the purchase of services, may be transferred, granted by 3000000» [[New]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e688	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘aThe Government asks the Government to change the key to the distribution of investment costs in IT and medical technical equipment between the hospital owner and the state to 20 pst. in hospital and 80 pst. on the State, as a follow-up to the State of St. Prp. [[1997-1998]] No 61 Chapter.Post Purpose:Croners730The health service of municipalities64The contribution to equipment in hospitals can be transferred, increased by 500 000 000 from NOK 4000000 to NOK 504 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14-2.ana.ud2460e849	Here the President assumes that the Workers' Party will vote against.
