ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e62	The representative Einar Steensnæs, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e79	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 55 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 40 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Left and the Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e88	The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs accepts the scheduled speaking time as the President-in-Office. We only need to stress that a group of committees originally wanted two separate debates with full lines since we have budget lines for three departments, so we hope that at a later date it will be emphasized.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e95	With these observations, the President considers his proposal to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e98	It is the first time in this great period that the Committee on Family Affairs, Culture and the Administration has a common budgetary debate for all three frameworks at the same time. It could be demanding, because it's a very wide area, stretching from, among other things. children's protection and State Building for museum. Thus, not all matters get the attention that they consume. Budgetary work has gone very well in the committee, and I want to give tribute to all the committee members for a good cooperation. The budget framework within culture and family has been properly raised next year. It's a pleasure. I expect that the various parties will take their suggestions into account in the debate, so I will therefore concentrate on the Christian People's Party's point of view. It's important that anyone who wants a nursery place gets it. The government's proposals give 6,000 new babysitting places for the next year. There are still many private kindergartens that are tired because municipalities have different treatment for municipal and private kindergartens. I was therefore very surprised that the Ministry of Children and Family seems to be starting work on developing a model for municipal cooperation agreements with private kindergartens, and that the Council of State did not intend to include representatives from private kindergartens in the working group, but only in the reference group. Several in the Committee have asked the Ministry to review this. There is an urgent need for action to provide an equivalent framework for private childcare. Cash support has become a popular scheme. 75 pst. one- and two-year-olds receive cash support. Many young children thus have more time with their children. Some have been concerned about the possible blooming of the use of the trainee as a result of the cash support. A study by NOVA, Report 4/99, shows that only 15 pst. by the cash-assisted children mainly became suitable by the intern. Cash support provides choice and flexibility, making everyday life easier for many. The government once again proposed to cut the adoption aid, and there were a lot of people sending reactions to the committee. So the Christian People's Party is very happy that through the agreement we got an increase from NOK 15 000 to NOK 22 500. In addition, a solid majority of the Committee calls for evaluation of measures to ensure that the incentive for adoption is more conservative. This is important. The Christian People's Party wants to build up voluntary engagement. Therefore, we are satisfied that we have increased the operational support of family and gender policy organisations, and expect to do so, for example. The parent society alone will now continue with its organisation. We need a lack of organisations involved in the public debate on different issues in this area. The National Children’s Protection Association and the Red Cross Children’s Contact Phone carry out important work for many. Both of these have been given increased privileges beyond the suggestions of the Government. The entire Committee has stressed the importance of early action on child protection and on other parts of the service apparatus, e.g. in health centres, schools and kindergartens. Many children and young people contact and ask questions about the Barneombode, especially via the Internet. In order to be able to follow up this work, we have proposed increasing the permissions for this purpose. The Christian People's Party is pleased that a majority in the Committee have ensured a lack of family protection even after 2001. The Church's Family Protection and OFO shall be guaranteed further operating support and shall not be decommissioned. Community action is important, and through the conciliation, we have increased significantly by 3 million. kr for this purpose. The main objective is to support lifelong learning, especially with a view to creating good conditions for the growth of children. Consumer policy was thoroughly debated through the consumer communication, which was handled in the fall. It is important to have laws and regulations that guarantee consumers rights. The work carried out both by the Consumer Council and by the Consumer Environment Council is important. Key challenges for a public administration policy are available, effective and manageable management, which should ensure equivalent service provision across the country. User orientation, openness, simplification and conversion are important elements here. When the government of Stoltenberg presented its proposal for the 2001 cultural budget, there were enough disappointments, not least within cultural life. The positive thing was that the production support for the papers was raised up at the 1998 level. It must be allowed to say that we are pleased with this budgetary agreement, where the centre party was able to make a positive contribution to increasing the cultural budget by a total of 75 million. kr. Only then did the cultural budget become a «winner». The agreement was a rescue both for culture and for the voluntary sector. The Christian People's Party entered the budget negotiations with a strong desire to give priority to the voluntary sector and so on. strengthening cultural measures for children and young people. We've been pretty close to that. First of all, we were busy fulfilling the promises we were making in connection with the handling of the «freedom message». We've done that by putting another $40 million into place. to the organisations. In addition, room was found for strengthening several other measures for the target group of children and young people. I'm thinking of increasing the promise to Youth's Culturemoon and means to start a neo-Norwegian children's book club. The latter is an important measure to ensure the dissemination of neo-Norwegian literature for children and young people and to develop joy over the newnorm as a language of use. The Norwegian Children's Book Institute, organisations such as Music and Youth and the Center for African Cultural Dissemination, and not least a strengthening of the school concert scheme for the Rikskonserts, led to the participation of several municipalities in this scheme. We know that the queue of municipalities waiting for this offer has increased in the last year. Some of the strengthening of cultural activities for children and young people came not as a result of the budgetary conciliation in the Financial Committee, but through the cooperation between the Centre and the Labour Party in the Committee. I want to give praise to the government party, which helped to make this possible by reducing the promises to what was perceived as a flagship for the Government in this cultural budget, that is, the cultural school bag. For other purposes that are not directly targeted at the youngest, but that will have a great deal of emphasis on all cultural activities beyond the community, I will take note of the development of cultural buildings. An increase of 23 million. kr to this case, of which half a million to the Norwegian Cultural Houses Network, is a proper highlight in relation to the proposals of the Government. The regional symphony orchestras were also credited with a good increase in the hallucinations this time. These orchestras are important engines in music life in the parts of the country, and good framework conditions are decisive for them to fill this function and trigger the expectations they have set for them from different sources. An important lift has also been given to the museum by the permission of 8 million. extra for the strengthening of archives, libraries and the museum sector. This will be an important start on a larger bet in this area. With the management of the archive, library and museum reports, Stortinget has given an important signal of a strong lift over several years to strengthen these institutions in their efforts to protect and disseminate cultural heritage and to create important cultural meeting places. Other important promises were made for a rescue operation for the cultural boat «Innvik», which was proposed for the budget, and the strengthening of the International Cultural Centre and Museum. And last, but not least, there are extra promises to the Norwegian Cultural Council, which must allow for the strengthening of festivals as well as other important cultural actions. The time does not allow for the many important presentations made by the Committee in several areas. It covers everything from the distribution of the choir and orchestral field, the organisation of Norwegian film production, the marking of the millennium to the assessment of the status of Henie-Onstad Kunstsenter, just to name a few. The Christian People's Party and the Centre Party stressed the need to correct the situation of voluntary work and to strengthen cultural activities for children and young people. It's important. Voluntary organisations and culture act as a 'lime' in society, giving us well-being and social networks that lead to strengthening the individual's affinities and self-development. Culture provides both insight and bridges between people and nations. Action on culture is a targeted investment for a warmer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e155	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e158	I agree with the chairman that we have had good cooperation in the Committee on this budget. Then I think it becomes all the more striking that the same representative and committee leader in debates here, and not least in the press, just focuses on the things we're a little confused about, and enlarges the situation quite strongly. I wonder, what's the motive for that? Is it because you're afraid people shouldn't know the difference between us? People out in the world, at least they I hit, we argue too much in this house, not too little. So I wish we could have a more pleasant tone in the debates too, not just in the debates. So some of the things that have gone forward. When it comes to voluntary action, we talked about the message, we've talked about the follow-up. The last in connection with this budget plus us on money for voluntary action. And then the representative Molvær Grimstad in Our Country today says that the Labour Party believes that ‘public can take responsibility for our lives from A to Å’. Where did May-Helen Molvær Grimstad get it from that we believe it? I would like to document that. Thus, when it comes to cooperation agreements with private kindergartens, it is the Ministry that is a working group – it is not an external working group – and they have to submit their proposals. They have received input from many, and they will present their proposals for the reference group today, and this reference group also includes people from the private sector. So finally the cash boost. I expect the representative to have registered that my father is working more and my mother less with the cash support. I would like to have a comment on it, and I would like to know how to think about it in connection with a center management after the next choice. When the Center Party is for only those who are at home to receive cash support, and the Christian People's Party is not, what will be the center's offer then?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e169	It often happens that the things you disagree about are focused on in the media. There is a lot we agree with the Labour Party in this budget, but I would also like to point out that if you see for example. in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Government proposes to cut down on a number of measures, on which we have received an increase. There may be co-operation measures, adoption, various voluntary teams and organisations that have been cut off in business, and there are some points of pain for which we have to fight repeatedly. When it's a matter of whether the Workers' Party believes in the private or the public, I can illustrate it with the life measures, which the Workers' Party repeatedly cuts. There are many volunteer teams and organizations that have courses, to ensure a lack, to have different ways of doing this. But the Labour Party has said in the past that they don't want all these voluntary organizations to have these money, and they want to transfer it to the Family Protection Offices. And Jagland was at the National Meeting of the Workers' Party in the voluntary organizations' institutions in relation to alcohol prevention work. He said they can't operate with his special therapy. We know that there was a string of cuts on different types of such organizations. We want a society that has a lack and that strengthens the volunteer organizations with a view to being involved and taking responsibility. So until the cooperation agreement schedule with private kindergartens, which one is working on: the Ministry will continue to work on what the representative named Ausdal Starrfelt, but it has also been said in the department's response to the committee that they should involve the municipalities that have worked on this issue in this work, that municipalities that have worked on the problem relate to the private kindergartens, should be part of the working group. But it would also be natural to involve private kindergartens in this work, not just focusing on those municipalities that know the problem from their point of view. Cash support can be very positive. I'm glad that the centre administration was able to get through this historical reform, and the centre party has worked well with it and got through to the Stortinget. I have great faith that we will still be able to have good cooperation when it comes to that matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e180	I listened with great excitement to the representative Molvær Grimstad's posts in the hope of getting some signals around that representative has been very busy in the media lately. I see that the Christian People's Party – excuse me, President – has now tried in a rude way through the media to give the impression that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about the situation of children after breakup and divorce, while in the comments of the Christian People's Party I see a lack of interest in that area. I also pointed out that the undersigned had a lot of questions to Valgerd Reply City Haugland at the time this was her area in the Bondevik administration, and it was her duty to follow up those children as well. At that time she rejected the fact that the Christian People's Party had in some way an interest in promoting proposals in the Children's Act on changes in relation to shared care, etc. Then I noticed that the special representative Molvær Grimstad, both in the media and through a selection in the Christian People's Party, has now taken the order to get into the debate. So my question is simply: what has happened, which gives the Christian People's Party an authorisation to go ahead and trick most people -- I think of the 60 000-70 000 children who don't see their own parents, and of all the fathers and mothers who are struggling in such a situation. What gives the Christian People's Party a right to get on the track right now, when they know that the Progress Party has made proposals – already in April 1999 we promoted three proposals that are being discussed in the Committee – for which they have not shown any interest at all? All they do is show that in the future, the Labour Party government will make proposals. What is it that makes the Christian People's Party kind of give a false impression of interest in the problem right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e185	The representative Sandberg asks: What gives the Christian People's Party the right to enter into a debate to ensure that children have more contact with their mother and father? It's a pretty eye-catching approach, because the Christian People's Party is obviously concerned with the situation of all children, just as they decorate their lives. The representative Sandberg also says that we have come into the debate in a strange way. One would rather think that the representative was pleased that we showed a clear commitment in this area. It is an area in which the former Minister for Children and Family, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, is, of course, also concerned. We have gone through the NOU on child distribution, and have therefore gone through these issues systematically. We have looked at some measures and suggested some things through that work, including: to abolish the distinction between parental authority and housing authority in order to ensure that parents are more equal after a break in their lives. We've in no way shown a lack of commitment to this before, but it's come out in the media in a pretty visible way lately. We want to follow that debate, of course, because we believe that after a break in life, we have to do what we can to ensure that the children's interests are safeguarded, and that they are able to have contact with both mother and father. And that's not what the representative claims, that we have no interest in the proposals that the Progress Party has submitted. I'm probably not in agreement with all that the Progress Party has written in its proposals, but when we know that the Ministry of Children and Family has a distribution work on this, we think it's important to see what comes from there, even though it's taken longer than we thought. It could be because these are complicated things. But we have absolutely a real and strong commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e194	The representative of Molvær Grimstad said she wants all the kids who want kindergarten to have it. Then I must say that I was amazed that she concentrated on the model of cooperation between private kindergartens and the municipalities, and not in a word that more kindergartens are now being laid down – and in Oslo with the good help of the Christian People's Party. Not only are they being laid down, but more kids are being moved into the departments — in other words, poorer quality — and child care prices are falling into the weather. And some of the reason for that is probably the bad local economy. We have calculated that the municipalities are missing NOK 1.3 billion in free income if they are to be able to cover their 30 pst. of the operating costs. Then I am amazed that the Christian People's Party is not more on the track and is fighting for municipalities to be able to maintain and expand their kindergartens. Then the representative was involved in the cash support, and it is clear that we have different views. But one of the studies that have been carried out shows that the cash support makes the mothers of young children at home and that the mothers of young children work even more overtime. Wouldn't that put the equation in reverse? Is not the Christian People's Party concerned about that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e204	Of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned that all children who want it will have children's playgrounds. And that's exactly why I'm working on the cooperation model that's going to be developed for the private kindergartens. Some private kindergartens simply saw the hook on the door because it is too difficult to drive. However, getting more equal treatment is an important way of keeping some kindergartens going. We see that the reason some of them fail is that they may not have operational support from the municipality. Therefore, SV should also be concerned with this template in relation to private kindergartens. There is no SV showing the same commitment as the plural in the committee. When it applies to the local economy, we also have a better local economy through the agreement with the Labour Party, and that is of course positive. So to cash support. What is unlikely about SV's proposal to remove cash support is that from August 1st, there will be a whole bunch of small children's parents without cash support and perhaps even without a nursery place. Because SV will go to work drastically and remove cash support, those who have then based their everyday life on cash support and adjusted to it – with the economy it provides – and who may be at home will lose it, and at the same time may not have the facilities for kindergarten. We see that the option should be real, they must be able to choose between kindergarten and cash support. But at least removing the cash support is not an answer to that challenge. When it comes to strengthening fathers' ability to spend more time at home, I think there are several things we can do in relation to it. In the proposal for a programme for the Christian People's Party, we have e.g. entered in order to extend the paid maternity leave to some reserved father. It may be a measure that leads a father to take even greater responsibility at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e215	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e218	I heard a claim here one day that a person must "beat heads" eleven times in order to end up in Norway, one of the richest countries in the richest part of the world. One should not travel far to feel that we are lucky, even if it is often pointed out that we are missing. And of course, we still have problems that should and should be solved, for example. hospital cows and children below the poverty line. The Labour Party is working for a fairer value and for a greater degree of justice and better distribution of good in our own country. The budget of the government of Stoltenberg was a good budget in this way, a budget with additional transfers to the poor countries and a budget in which the kingdoms of Norway would spend more to give those who have the least, and to secure and further develop our common well-being. The draft budget was a budget in a good social-democratic spirit. That center found out many of its priorities, led to constructive cooperation, including in our committee. I thank you for that. Of course, I would argue that the Workers' Party's proposal was even better. Our proposal for a cyclical fee was better and wanted to have a frame for example. the cultural sector to a much lesser extent. Half of food is not the best way to get to those who have the least, to meet, or to take care of families with children, to name something. The result of the conciliation is, however, a good budget. Two of our budget areas got extra frames, a reduced frame. The easiest way is to distribute increased frames. It is always the case that, in isolation, there are good arguments for spending more money than it is possible or advisable to use. Norway is a country with many possibilities. We have a lot of natural resources, and we have a lot of expertise gathered. However, we need to make reasonable use of resources, get the most out of each krona, and make better use of human resources. Hence, public sector conversion is one of the Workers' Party's heart issues. The aim is to make the public sector stronger and more competitive in relation to any private option, and to be able to meet the growing needs of the care sector in the future, without all new workers having to go to these sectors. The Minister of Labour and Administration has been set to lead this process from the state, but there is a need for efforts from many and at all levels. In the Ministry of Labour and Administration, there is a separate unit to conduct the renewal programme, which has the following main objectives: establishment of public service offices and day-to-day management of labour for the provision of services and to sectors with increasing need for regulatory simplification less reporting and control; So it's not that hard-working help nurses and teachers should work even harder, but that people should be transferred from administration to service provision and spend less time on paperwork and more on, for example, paperwork. care and training. I think they're interested in that. The first task I had in this committee was to be the case spokesman for the nursery. The Labour Party is pleased that the goal of full child care coverage was widely supported by 2003 and for the conclusion to escalate the government's concessions to kindergartens to 50 pst. before 2005. At the same time, the target is 30 pst. local government funding is fixed. All in all, this will help to increase the expansion and reduction of the closure of kindergartens and to the payment of parents at a level that people can afford. The escalation begins in the budget we are adopting today. It's only when everyone who wants it has access to a nursery at a price they can afford, that we have full babysitting. I'm glad we found a solution so that free childcare facilities in a part of Oslo can continue while the trial is being evaluated. The measure is positive in relation to Norwegian training and the integration of immigrant children and their families. We in the Labour Party are pleased that we have come up with a solution that has strong political support when it comes to the concession for nationwide advertising-funded television in Norway. We have received support for calling out, for strict concession requirements and for paying a monthly fee for this concession in addition to an annual fee to the AV Fund. That was the most important thing for us, not the auctioning principle in and off. Now we want to close the government as a concessionary power with the work to secure the country a best possible television offer and the community a reasonable payment for this. It's not untimely for a concession that currently gives access to advertising revenue of well over NOK 1 billion. Finally, I would like to point out that the Labour Party has announced a strong annual escalation of the rights of culture. Then I believe this country will be better to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e258	I record that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt uses a headline on his post that goes on a fair distribution of the goods. Then it might be interesting to ask the representative Ausdal Starrfelt about where she believes justice lies in different special arrangements and selective schemes, such as waiting wages for government employees and mortgages for state employees. In a situation where the labour market is shattered, the government will spend a quarter of a billion dollars in 2001 on waiting pay for government employees. It's also the case that we have a budget of SEK 1.5 billion to provide special housing loans to government employees. My question is: is there a fair distribution, a fair arrangement, compared to the fact that other people in this country feel that interest rates are rising sharply, and that they get huge expenditure on their mortgages, as opposed to those employed in the state? In the case of those on waiting pay, there are many others who go unemployed and have to raise unemployment benefits in the usual way. It's also interesting about what Mr. Ausdal Starrfelt says about the renewal of the public sector. I could imagine knowing what the Workers' Party is really adding to the concepts of renewal, rationalization and efficiency. In fact, the budgets are increasing in all the areas to which the Labour Party and the representative Ausdal Starrfeld refer. There will be no reductions in transfers. I'm just referring to the VAT reform that the budget-mates have agreed on. It turns out that 200 annual works are needed only to administer this scheme. Where is it that the Workers' Party really wants to streamline in the public sector, and how will they do so? I think there are a lot of people going around thinking about what the Workers' Party really wants and means by renewing the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e265	Wages and salaries, housing loans and distributions for state employees were occupied by the representative Sandberg. These are arrangements that have been made after negotiations in connection with changes. The Labour Party believes that the state and the public should be a good and safe employer, and this may be one of the tools that can be involved in the change process to make the transitions easier. I think it's quite bold that the Progress Party sets it up against the unemployed. When does the Progress Party fight for the unemployed? They have not done it properly when it comes to levels of support or what is all, most important for the unemployed, simply to have access to training and development so that they can get a job again. So that was a slightly sought-after comparison of my vision. When it comes to renewal, it's always like when you start a process and talk a little bit about how things are going to be, there's going to be a lot of words, and we don't see it all until change starts. But I said something about it. My t.d. the coordination of public enterprises in service offices will result in rationalisation. I think that a 24-hour administration, which the Committee met in Sogn and Fjordane, where very much can happen via the web, will ease the pressure on parts of the services. The most important thing is that we – and even the Progress Party combined – will meet increasing needs, because we get many more old. So we're going to increase efforts in the care of the elderly and in the hospital sector. We have also said that we need to increase our efforts in relation to cancer and psychiatry. That means that in order for us to have people for other tasks as well, we have to get some free hands, someone who stops working with paper and works more with people. Rationalisation will not simply mean closure, only a change in the work of people, so that we can ensure the well-being and service provision of people in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e274	The representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, said that the budget was in a good social democratic spirit, and that the budget proposal to the Government was even better than what one has come up with after the conciliation. And then there's something I'm asking: one of the things that the committee has received a lot of requests for is adoption. It has been shown that the Labour Party has been repeatedly reduced. So it's going to be a little bit daunting. Those who have expected the amount to be of a certain size may soon have experienced that it has been reduced. From the Labour Party took over the government power, it has been reduced from NOK 22 000, and the proposal for the next year was NOK 15 000. Does the representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, think that it is in a good social democratic spirit to reduce the incentive for those who have quite high costs associated with adoption? The representative and the Labour Party are, to a large extent, aware of a comment to ask the Ministry to look at measures to make support more conservative. I hope that the department will give priority, because I think it's important for those who adopt. When the volunteer message was discussed here at Stortinget, the representative Ausdal Starrfeld was not in the committee, but it was quite obvious that the Labour Party fought for the best in the class when it came to volunteering. Now, the equation has increased by 40 million. kr to voluntary teams and organisations, everything from the Scout to the Red Cross, choir and local corps. Many can now spend more time on involvement among children and young people and less time on cake baking and lottery. Does the real representative, Ausdal Starrfelt, think that the budget for the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture was better with the original budget of the Labour Party than what has emerged after the conciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e285	Now I'm not just busy with our budget, but actually of the wholeness of the budget for this country. And collectively, this country had got a better budget with the Labour Party's alternative than what we're going to adopt. That's my starting point, not going to post for post within our chapter saying, "That was better, and that was worse." I even said in my post that it is never difficult to find arguments to spend more money on most areas. It's always harder to find arguments against it. It is clear that, in isolation, I would also wish that we would not have made any suggestions to reduce the adoption support. But now we're going to have to raise it. We also say that now we have to end up going up and down several times a year. Yeah, I guess that's good. So we're talking about how we're going to deal with this in the future. Otherwise, I would say that if we got a situation where the interest rate went up, it wouldn't be much until adoption parents got poorer advice. A budget where a person wants to spend more money, which leads to an increase in interest rates, could increase costs in addition to the $7,500 that they receive in adoption support. Then it becomes a little weird when the representative Molvær Grimstad says that the Labour Party will be the best in the class when it comes to volunteering. It is now out of proportion to what she said in her post that the Labour Party believed the public would take control of our whole life, and that we would not have the volunteer. Here you can see a conflict which is not present. I think the reality is that we're pretty much in agreement about a lot, but that we all see that there can be good arguments for measures that we still don't think we can afford, for example. of interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e296	It's probably entertaining to listen to "Tuppen and Little Mother", who's the worst and who's the best, but for most people it's probably other things that have more interest. The expectation of a renewal of the public sector has not been met with particularly positive measures by the Government. I think it's pretty interesting when Ausdal Starrfelt is now talking about the whole budget, not just within the chapters relating to our sector, but within the entire state budget. And then it's pretty interesting to see that those who want less bureaucracy are now imposing 200 new bureaucrats on us through the cooperation agreement with the center parties. Not only that, but one will have less control, less regulation, less detail, and yet this majority has now this autumn confirmed that one continues, for example. shall have this small boating law, where bureaucrats shall ensure that no one paints his boat without notifying that one has the correct data on the engine, that all possible notifications shall be made. How many bureaucrats don't blame society for such cooperation? Where are the measures that will give us less bureaucracy? It's just words. We need a slimmer public sector, and then it grows and grows through these cooperation agreements concluded between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. My question to the representative is: When can we expect a reduction in bureaucracy to begin? Because you're actually just building it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e305	I don't know how hit I feel about the "Tuppen and Lillemor" procedure. At least it's not my style to fuddle – I thought it was one of the elements of the "Tuppen and Lillemor". I might want to return the main question. What has Right done for renewal? What kind of initiative have they taken to renew, to reduce for example. bureaucracy? We will need some new bureaucrats in new areas, but we will be much more critical of creating new bureaucrats, and we need to see much more critical of those we have created. In fact, it's not like -- I didn't see it at all when I was in the Business Committee -- that it's just the public that tends to create bureaucracy. No, we see that in the voluntary organizations that we are talking about here, and we see that in private practice. There seem to be some built-in mechanisms that make bureaucracy self-enhancing. We must be critical of that. And at a central level, we can reduce laws, regulations and regulations, we can reduce the requirement for planning documents from 100 pages to maybe 10, and we can reduce the reporting requirement. The last thing I've done is I've done quite a bit like the head of health and social work. I bothered at the worst to say that nurses and caregivers at home in January had enough to write reports, so it was best that people in the municipality were not ill, because then they had no time for anything else. Obviously, we can't have it like that; we can't use resources like that. But it is not only a condition that they work differently in my municipality of Klepp, but it is primarily a condition that we make different regulations and other reporting rules that allow them to do that job very quickly – they have to do it, but they have to do it much faster and much more rationally – and then they have to take the time to care for and configure the old, not to write reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e316	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e320	Since the Committee has merged its areas into one debate, I have to try to take it a little in order, so I start with Framework Area 1. The Progress Party believes that it must be a central political objective for all parties to reduce public bureaucracy in order to make the authorities more transparent for each individual citizen, to increase the influence of each individual citizen and to reduce public expenditure. The Progress Party therefore wishes to initiate rationalisation by imposing a general efficiency improvement on all departments in and under the Ministry of Labour and Administration. The Ministry must look at its costs and tasks and carefully assess how it can be saved and critically assess the nature of the work to be prioritised. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that, in its budgetary position, the Government has pointed out that they also want to improve the efficiency of the public sector, but one has to express some disappointment when the Government simultaneously increases the subsidies to these framework areas. By constantly increasing transfers to departments, of course, delays and further hampers the much-needed public efficiency process. Furthermore, I would also like to point out that the Progress Party is strongly opposed to special arrangements for public sector employees. The introduction of such special schemes for employees financed by public funds, which have been re-enforced by taxes and taxes, indirectly means that the schemes are financed by workers outside the public sector who do not have access to the schemes. The Progress Party has also seen that there are large budget excesses within the public administration, including in the current year. This is seen as a result of a discharge from the heads of public administration. At least in our party, we want to work for a greater division of responsibilities within central government, and we believe that it should also be a task for all the other parties. Then to the frame area 2. This is the fourth budget of the undersigned, and once again we have left a year behind where various shortcomings in Norwegian society have emerged in the debate. Much may suggest that the family policy that has been pursued and, unfortunately, is continuing is not for the better. We are constantly receiving alarming feedback that more and more children are living in poverty, more and more children are in need of psychological help, more and more children are resorting to drugs, more and more children are involved in crime, more and more children are experiencing break-ups and divorce, and more and more children are being put into child protection. This, in my view, should lead to the innovation of responsible political parties, at least those who have been responsible for this development. But unfortunately, that is not the case. The answer from all parties, apart from the Advance Party, is a continuation of a policy which ensures, as far as possible, the division of the family, which distinguishes children and parents as far as possible. Unfortunately, the 2001 budget also confirms that the Centre and the Christian People's Party are involved in the anti-family policy of the Workers' Party. The answer from the budget-mates is as before: kindergarten, kindergarten, kindergarten, equality, equality, equality, equality, special arrangements, special schemes, special schemes for healthy up-to-date intelligent people, and finally: more and more resources for the professionals who have their daily work in repairing the consequences of the Labour Party's family policy. I'm tempted to say that the new growth industry in Norway today is actually the professionals who are going to work with the various broken child mindsets. And I think it's very sad that the elected representatives are so concerned with the control, control and regulation of the private home that they accept the price in terms of the negative consequences that I've referred to earlier. The party of progress and, in part, the right now seems to be the only parties that will do some action to reverse these societal trends. The Progress Party strengthens the family budget by more than DKK 1 billion in its alternative budget. We don't want to be involved in reducing child welfare, as our budget buddies do. We're strengthening it by 225 million. kr. The Progress Party increases transfers to kindergartens by 184 million. kr. We do not reduce the transfers to the kindergartens, where the Minister of Family Affairs and Prime Minister Stoltenberg in several contexts – I am tempted to say so strongly – has deceived and lied to the Norwegian people. The progress party is together Right, the only ones who really want to help private kindergartens. The other games just think they're doing it. The Progress Party also wants to extend the cash support to 3-year-olds. Regardless of the Labour Party and the disgust of the Minister for Family Affairs for this scheme, the Progress Party still believes that cash support leads to freedom of choice and justice. It is regrettable that no more parties want this extension. All of this, together with all the other interventions the Progress Party is doing in its alternative budget, will give all families much better conditions – conditions that will lead to significantly better paying ability, and thereby greater opportunities to care for family needs and not least the best of the young. The Progress Party's alternative budget will thus strengthen the overall family economy and thereby give families greater opportunity to give priority to home and family. Then to the frame area 3. I won't say so many words about it, because the representative Bredvold will make a statement on it a little later. But let me say that for the Progress Party, culture is an open concept that expresses the values and qualities that each human being attributes to high self-value. This, I think, is very deficient in the cultural policies of the other parties. Our view is also reflected in our budget, as in our view it is wrong that the state should have monopoly on the kind of culture to be covered by the community, and what it should be up to the individual to cover. By transferring cultural resources to each individual citizen through tax relief, all citizens will be able to choose on an independent basis the cultural experience they value the highest. The Progress Party will otherwise point out that we see that certain tasks in the field of culture are so important that the public must be responsible for financing, as we have also made clear in our draft budget. Finally, I would just like to promote the proposals of the Progress Party for all the three framework areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e343	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e348	I will be allowed to quote from the comments of the Advance Party in the Budget-Inst. S. No 2 for 2000-2001: ‘The party is very critical of the public intervention in the private home. The political environment must realise that it is completely impossible for the public to take over the care tasks to be carried out naturally by the family. The Party considers that the socialist idea that the ‘Community’ is to undertake these tasks has proved to be a failure when we are now witnessing a ‘disintegration’ of the family.’» Then my question becomes: who is going to do the care tasks that the family for many different reasons does not have power over their children, when the public is not going to do them either? Further: The progress of children is concerned about the lack of role models to identify with – this is especially true of boys. And the Progress Party links this to a lack of empathy, increased violence and juvenile delinquency. Cash support has led the girls to leave the workplace and the fathers to work more and have less time for their children. Thus, father as a model becomes even more invisible. How will the Family Policy of the Advancement Party lead fathers to spend more time on their children and take greater responsibility for the care of their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e362	The point is that with the policies of the Progress Party, the private will again take care of themselves, which they have been deprived of through the last 20 years of policy. In the past, I have said that the Workers' Party wants in a way ‘three-hour children’ – children who are up to three hours with their parents/caregivers per. day – and they are approaching the target. Today the situation is so that the public comes and picks up the children at 0 p.m. 7 o'clock in the morning, and then they drive them back at 7 o'clock. 17:00 in the evening. That's the situation. And we want to turn it around. We do that through a number of proposals, including: the birth allowance, where we want to collect the birth money in one pot and give to the individual child, instead of what the Workers' Party does, to give to those who are the richest. We also want to extend the cash support. Who chooses to take care of the private home is completely indifferent to the Progress Party, even if it's the parents. We want parents to plan their situation together at home, and not for the Workers' Party to do so. I don't believe that's how it's been said in previous articles here, that the mothers are now going back to home, and the fathers are working more. But a situation where it would have been possible for both parties to choose – something you can't do today, I think it's possible to get a solution to. Then I will refer to the proposal of the Progress Party – the representative refers to the comments of the Progress Party. The reason why we have promoted the three Document Nos. The 8 proposals on shared care are that we have research results from abroad, massive research results, which show that lack of one or other caregiver is harmful. And we're also starting to get proof of that in Norwegian newspaper headlines. It was actually one yesterday that was quite good, where a leader of a PP service in the South said exactly the same thing, that the children now have to go back to the private home, and not stay in the hands of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e369	It's quite remarkable that Per Sandberg says that the centre party, together with the Workers' Party, is pursuing a family-friendly policy that destroys child-minds, etc. It's not hanging on to anything. The Christian People's Party is engaged in a good family policy and has a number of actions that focus on it. But in relation to the family burden, according to the Sandberg representative, he says he's concerned about the family situation, it's quite unlikely that the Progress Party will not be involved in increasing the funds for community action, which may be involved in the prevention of life crimes, and which can be a pretty broad prevention activity. They just run out here on the pulpit and criticize in the east and west. But we have to think, what can we do to stimulate a positive development? Over to the other piece, culture. The party of progress proposes quite large – huge – cut off cultural measures, especially in its primary structure – it is such that everyone must stick to the framework once it has been adopted. They don't want to spend money on large government institutions. But don't you see the positive sides that a strong cultural exposure has for the whole country? The fact that we have strong state institutions also stimulates voluntary activity around Norway. The Progress Party will set aside two funds, a fund for culture for children and young people and a fund for the elderly, which will also be used for culture. How does the Progress Party think they should be organised? Do you think a get large returns from these funds? What action do you want them to use for? Who should administer them? Is there going to be more red tape of what follows from these funds? It might be interesting to hear a little more concretely what a thought will come from these funds, in relation to the elderly, children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e380	My claims are not at stake," said Molvær Grimstad. I'll refer to two newspaper headlines. It's one from Kristiansand, 630 children in the Children's Protection Searchlight, and one where the head of PP service in Kristiansand, Arvid Alsaker, points out that the problem is now becoming so big that all children should have actually been under the Child Protection Service, because it has publicly removed the children from the caregivers. That's why I'm saying that the Center and the Christian People's Party now, together with the Workers' Party, have gone into the breeze to reinforce the public entry into the private home. I seem to recall that the Christian People's Party, at an earlier stage, wanted to extend the cash support to all children under compulsory schooling. But they have left it, as opposed to the Progress Party, which is holding on to it. So my claim is solid. I would have liked to have shown several hundred such newspaper headlines lately, where it is claimed that all children need to get into the child protection arms. What's the problem is that parents don't get to be around and take care of their children. Joint action: No, the Progress Party will not be involved in subsidising co-operation measures at high mountain hotels. If adults want to discuss their life problems at a mountain hotel, they get to do it out of their own resources and budget. We don't think it makes sense. It also has nothing to do with the situation of children, is my claim, and I also point that out in the proposal under consideration in the committee. Then the representative is committed to the two funds that the Progress Party opens up in its subsidiary proposal. We haven't thought – and that's the point – that the public should touch those funds at all. We have old age councils in all municipalities that can freely use those funds. We have a lot of children's and youth organisations that are able to take care of these funds and keep them far away from the public claws. Therefore, we do not want to create a single position to manage the two funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e389	It's quite interesting to listen to the representative Sandberg when he's talking about family policy. And it becomes even more interesting when we read the setting and see that they regret today's equality policy, which is "based on a struggle between two poles that fight against each other, and are still locked in equality of old 70's vintage." But it sounds like the Progress Party wants to go back to the 1950s, and that's very special, in 2000. Moreover, I would like to ask a little more about the cultural policy of the Progress Party. It's not so strange that they completely avoid talking about culture, because it's quite absent. Firstly, I want to know what the Progress Party will use these funds for, and secondly what offers the Progress Party believes will be left for young and older people. For example, the Progress Party will: have payments for library services, where young and older are the main users, they will recover 10 million. kr from the local and regional museums, and at the same time they believe that the cultural offer should be developed close to the users. It becomes quite unclear to me what cultural areas the Progress Party sees as surviving with the Budgetary Policy of the Advance Party in this area. Are young people and older people supposed to produce their own cultural services? Is that why they must have such a large fund? It can almost work this way, for everything that concerns political governance and political priority for cultural allocation, does not, of course, go against the Progress Party. Then there'll be only amateur theaters, revisions and that again. Should young people and older people produce it themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e398	If it is the cultural policy of the Progress Party that the representative of Stolt-Nielsen is calling for, I will use my entire answer to it. Then I first link it to a paper in the Evening Post on 13 December, which confirms that the majority use large parts, or most, to operas and theaters – that is the professional part that Stolt-Nielsen calls for in our budget and our priorities. When we want to set up these two funds in a subsidiary way, it is of course supposed that the elderly and the elderly together find the best use of it; the same also applies to the younger ones, that the youth organisations themselves use it and agree on its common use. It's not like there's going to be any kind of additional expenses with this. That's what's so good about such funds. Only the yield is to be used. So in the future, this won't be a burden on the cultural budget at all. It is in contrast to the Right, who spends money for all good and bad purposes and gets more and more expenditure in the future on it. I was in museums. Yes, we cut in the allocation to museums, but we're both honest in this area, as opposed to, among other things. Right, which again pours out for good and bad purposes, inseparably, no matter how many museums we have. The situation is that we're about to have 800 museums, and we're honest enough to stand up and say that we don't think there's a need for all of these 800 museums. We have just dealt with the notification of the museum, and the committee has been in Denmark. When Denmark has only 250 museums, we know that at some point in Norway too, how many museums and how many administrations we're going to have within this field must be limited. Then I would like to remind you that the Progress Party, when we dealt with the ABM message, was very clear when it came to the library. Children and young people shall be exempted from all forms of self-payment in libraries. That is not what the representative, Mr Stolt-Nielsen, claims, that we want to demand the young people on the one hand and take them away from them on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e411	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e414	In my contribution to today's budget debate, I will focus on two of the departments: the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. Inger Stolt-Nielsen will then deal with Kosmo and his department. Following the agreement on kindergartens in spring, it is disappointing that the Ministry has no longer moved towards increasing State aid to kindergartens. Some increase is present, but some hope for parents for a lower parental payment is not to be traced. Although the Workers' Party is rhetorically high on the track with reduced parental pay and rapid expansion of kindergartens to all those who want it, the practices of municipalities in the next year's budget review show that many municipalities will propose juicy jumps in parental pay. In my home municipality, Drammen – unfortunately labour party-driven at the moment – the councillor proposed raising the rates by 29 p.m. Next year. This was too much for the rapporteur's party, the Workers' Party, and together with their budget-mates, they were able to give the following'smooth message': the rates for the children's gardens in the Drammen will only be increased by 10 pst. Next year. If this is the trend in the follow-up to the kindergarten announcement, I think we should quickly agree that the state grant needs to be increased sharply, and so that we get a price where the money follows the child. In this way, a person will also receive the desired equality between private and municipal kindergartens on the grant side. In its alternative state budget, the right added an increase of 5.6 pst., or 275 million. kr, in state grants to kindergartens. This would help to improve opportunities for private kindergartens in particular next year. I'm worried about developments, with constant price increases far beyond the rise in prices elsewhere in society. It was only a good thing that the economic cost disappeared. It would have hit private kindergartens unreasonably hard. I would like to add that I fully support May-Helen Molvær Grimstad in the demand that the private kindergartens be involved in the work of developing cooperation templates. It was a clear premise of this committee when we dealt with the kindergarten announcement, and I think it is alarming that the department has only invited the municipalities into this work. After all, it's all the private kindergartens that know where the shoe prints. So they have to go into this work. But at least it is a pleasure to establish that the cash support has become a popular arrangement. The right will very strongly warn against dwindling with the assumptions for cash support. Freedom of choice has always been our main argument for the system. When some people now talk about providing cash support to those who are at home all the time, I would say that it will never be included. And I can't believe that the Minister for Children and Family, who normally have modern attitudes, can at all consider supporting a scheme that excludes those who are trying to combine kindergarten and cash support to get more time with the children. Rather, bet on making flexibility more flexible, so that those who wish can have the full opportunity to choose flexible solutions. With regard to the forthcoming evaluation of the cash support, I refer to the majority's comment, where the three main principles of cash support are used as the basis for further evaluation work, and ask the Council of State to ensure that the majority's positions here are followed up. The right has also proposed price adjustment in its alternative budget, which would involve an increase of 320 million. kr. The Culture Budget presented by the Government was bloodless and no boost to culture. The deal has improved the situation, and the center parties actually did a good job by getting a 75-million increase. kr. Within the framework now laid down, the right has a very offensive cultural budget. We are opponents of the press support, it dares be known, and have redispatched these funds for cultural purposes. However, this budget harvest has now been marked by the issue of the award of the TV2 concession, and it was a great surprise that the Workers' Party made proposals for auctioning in the event of the concession being granted from 2003. The right clarified his vision quite early. We said no to auction, yes to concession fee and no to 10 years of concession, and we proposed a five-year period to continue digitisation. For the Right, this is not primarily a matter of money to the Treasury. No, it's a cultural policy issue, where the focus is on Norwegian language, culture and identity. When TV 2 was established, it was to give NRK competition. And when the concession was announced, it was a key point that this was going to be a public broadcaster with important societal tasks. That's still the point. The concession holder shall be a competitor of the NRK, not a competitor of the purely commercial channels. It is therefore very gratifying that a broad majority has now gathered to say no to the auction and to the proposed concession terms and at the same time ask the Ministry to assess the duration of the concession period. Now the ball is played back to the department, and I expect that there will be a fair competition for the new concession. In this year’s draft budget, the NRK has received an increase in the licence of DKK 75. This goes to the right and believes that 25 kroner will be kept. The NRK has gradually become a mastodont that needs to be converted. For me, it's a cross of thought that next year's license income will pass NOK 3 billion, that's more than what's awarded for cultural purposes in next year's state budget. It should be possible for the NRK to maintain good programme production within a budget of 3000 million. kr. In the cultural budget and in the Ministry of Children's and Family Affairs' budget, it is gratifying that voluntary organisations are provided with the means they are required under the voluntary notification. However, it is a great cross of thought that the Ministry had not included these funds in its draft budget. The sport gets its way through tipping, while the children’s and youth organisations and cultural organisations seem to have to rely on the Stortinge every year to get their legal resources. These organisations may not be used as balancing items, while sports are fed directly and automatically. As usual, progress has been enormous in terms of good proposals regarding the cultural budget. We have chosen to invest in symphony orchestras and propose an increase to the two national and the four regional groups totaling 21 million. kr. At the same time, it is now important to get an investigation into the orchestra field. The right-hand side also suggests 5 million. extra for party games both in North Norway and Bergen – the Olav Festival and the Molde Jazz Festival. We point to the good job being done at the district operas, and emphasise that West Norway's Opera in Bergen should now receive a grant of 2 million. kr. It is gratifying that the majority have now pointed to the good work being done at the West Norway Opera in Bergen, and that a bet department assesses a grant. On the theatre side, we also propose increases, including: Two million. to each of the regional theatres and 1,5 million. to the Bragettheater in Drammen. I am also very pleased that a majority have joined a note that Grenland Fritheatre should enter the Ministry of Culture budget in 2002 when the support from the Council of Culture falls away. There are now many artists in Norway with a foreign background. I am therefore disappointed that our remark on 'The Great World' was not a majority remark. The ‘big world’ has done a good job of spreading culture from different cultures in Norway. Thus, the support from the Culture Council is now lost, while the Culture Council is probably beginning a separate Pakistani festival in 2002. In my opinion, activity in cultural life should come from below: fires that have an idea, build something up and get activity. It is therefore strange that instead the Culture Council chooses to take its own action in direct competition with others. I wonder what the Minister of Culture thinks about this. The right is also pleased that a number of measures in the field of music are being referred to in an honest manner and hope for funding in a later round. I want to point to one thing that has evolved in recent years, and that's Bylarm. Bylarm has grown as the most exciting meeting place for new Norwegian bands and groups, and as a discussion forum on trends and developments in the music industry. In the field of folk music, it is gratifying that Norwegian Folkemusik- und Daneslag and the Landslag für Spielermen get good publicity for the efforts being made through the Internet to make Norwegian performers known both in Norway and abroad. Finally, I address the proposals where the Right is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e460	Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e465	The representative of Greece from the Right began by boasting that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre was 75 million. kr more for culture. I want to hear what characteristics he has of Høre's alternative cultural budget, where you put 75 million instead of 75 million. kr, kutter 125 mill. kr, when holding the press stand outside – a gap of 200 million. kr. I'm looking forward to that characteristic. The right is at the forefront of a cultural policy where cultural purposes are just going to be cut hard, not just in the press support, which is often concealed. After four years in the Culture Committee, it is difficult not to notice what kind of results it will be of small means and what the performers of large private exposures will get. We can see that the representative of Greece has seen this, in connection with the fact that he has to deal with the money that the Labour Party and Centre grant. Then there is no way of strengthening all cultural areas, of which the article was also marked. In this way, it helps to conceal the real cultural policy of the Right. Because if you had looked at your own policy – and you have the opportunity – you could have seen what the Right really wants in the field of culture, and that's what I'm asking: What is the Right Cultural Policy really like when Right is going to cut so much in terms of cultural purposes – even when you keep the press out of it? What are the areas where these cuts are to be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e472	It dare be known to Alstad that it is his heartchild, the film, who gets the biggest cuts in Right's primary budget options. That's right, we have a moderate cut in our original arrangement. But when that's said, I have to say that it's quite marginal in relation to the willingness we have to bet on culture. It is especially the film area that is the victim of our budget axis, and there is also a part of it with scholarship schemes, work grants, etc. So to the press support chapter: I think it's quite surprising that the majority chooses to proceed on a press support policy that obviously has no other purpose than to maintain the status quo. There is no innovation related to the press support. There was a call for proposals from a daily press committee that had been put together in such a way that the result was given in advance, as there was a continuation of today's arrangements. And now we see the result of some numbers. 2 heavy-wearing newspapers have already entered. Then there is climbing outwards, with quite large sums going to the press support without anyone thinking about how this should be used. So I want to say that we in the Right have no reason to be ashamed of our original cultural budget. We know that with the new system here in Stortingen, it is possible through the frameworks laid down to show an alternative use of funds, and with great boldness, we want to show that it had actually been possible to use these media aids in a way that was far more important to the interests of culture. I think Anne Enger Lahnstein was tough when she said that when she had the choice to cut the press support and cultural measures, she chose to cut the press support. That should also be followed up by the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e483	The representative of Greece made a statement confirming previous views on the Right’s policy with regard to specific schemes and selective measures. The right has, after all, co-existed with the Progress Party in previous political debates and budgetary debates, in view of the view of selective measures. Not least, we are united in the view of this with waiting wages for government employees, housing loans for government employees, etc. Here it seems that the Progress Party and the Right have common policies and common objectives. But then I start to doubt a little: that's how the Right supports that the gay people get their own post on the state budget. The right-hand side goes so far as to increase the appropriations for LLH by one and a half million. kr. After all, this must be called a selective measure — for healthy adults, for up-to-date, intelligent people. So my question to Greece is: what is it that makes the Right have picked out the special group to put in place a selective measure – a selective budget line for this particular group of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e492	It is true that the Right Party and the Advance Party are united in many areas, especially in pointing to unfair public schemes that benefit public employees more than others. But that Sandberg then manages to draw the parallel to our modest support for the National Association for Lesbian and Homofil liberation, becomes a little strange. I have no problem saying that the organisation representing the lesbians and the gays should have had at least half the extra million that we're proposing now. This has been documented by regular consultations in the Committee and by what we see from various research reports. With regard to the group they represent, there are, first of all, not so many of those who are members of the organisation, precisely because it may still be difficult to stand up to their legation, and it is therefore important that that organisation has the ability to carry out information work and information activities, not least related to HIV and that type of thing. So that's not a problem at all. As far as this is concerned, with specific schemes and selective measures, these areas of our budget are largely characterised by many such measures and schemes, especially in the cultural field. What we hear about the whole fall are different groupings that want to promote their cause. The same is true in the area of the Ministry of Children and Family, where there are numerous organisations. I don't have any problems saying that the voluntary organisations working in the children's and family sector, those who work directly against children or up against special groups, are organisations that are basically all doing a very good job as one, and deserve a few dollars in public support – not so they should depend only on public support, but so that they get a contribution because they actually do a lot of community work. I also thought that the Progress Party, which supports the voluntary organisations, respected that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e501	I actually think it's right when Trond Helleland points out that there's a will in the Right to bet on culture. But it is clear to us that you are taking up the task of distributing the entire liberal framework, which was the result after we got more into the culture of the 2001 budget in the centre. I want to challenge Greece a little bit on the press support. It is true, as Greece remembers, that in the 1999 budget – i.e. in 1998 – there was a cut in production aid of 35 million. kr. There was quite a lot of noise associated with it, as expected. I don't complain about it, because I think it was right to cut it rather than cut into a very vulnerable cultural budget. But I think it was right to set up the Press Support Committee to get a review of this. I see that reference is still made to the 1998 cut when some newspapers have problems and even have to be closed down, even in Trond Helleland's own municipality. The right-hand proposal involves a cut in the press support of approx. 250 million. kr for next year. The only thing being screened is 16.8 million. kr for grants to various publications, i.e. partisan press support. I would like to know if Trond Helleland has thought through the consequences of cutting about. 250 million. as from 1 January 2001, and how he can defend, where he is in principle opposed to press support, that the parties should receive his money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e510	When the Right has a principal programme where it is clear that we want to wind up the public press support, it is natural that we follow it up through the annual budgets. But the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, who has been Minister of Culture, also knows that when the Right is in a position where we can help to get a budget and a majority, we are willing to negotiate this. Of course, we are flexible. I hope that the Center Party will also be in the future, so that exciting solutions can be found. So to the press support and the example the representative, Enger Lahnstein, pointed out, about the newspaper in my own home town, Drammensavias, as it is now called, the past future, which has now entered. The last attempts to get it started again seem to have stranded. You could say that if we had cut the press support, it would have gone in before. But press support has evolved steadily in recent years. It's gone down a little bit, but at the same time the edition of that paper has gone down a lot. Then the question becomes to me: how much are we going to do through public action? Now we see that nearby radios, local radios, Internet newspapers and others are starting to demand press support. ‘Media support’ is the new word now. Then I have a question back, to which the representative is not given the opportunity to answer, but which I think it is interesting to discuss: will the majority have a media policy in which we go into selective support measures for independent, free newspapers, online newspapers, radio stations, etc.? I believe that we have one main objective in our media policy in terms of public support, and that is to ensure that we have a good public broadcasting channel, both a non-commercial and an alternative, which we have now discussed through this with the TV 2 concession. There we have a special responsibility, because it's very expensive to produce television, and we need quality programmes. In the second case, the right is against that type of selective measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e523	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e526	Now that it is stated that we are dealing with three framework areas in the same debate, it requires a strict priority. Essentially, I want to focus my article on Framework Area 3, which is culture. It is gratifying that it has been possible to increase the framework and thus beyond 75 million fresh kroner for cultural activities and services for 2001. It is simply a little bit historical that a budgetary settlement here in the United Kingdom does not involve cuts, but rather more money for art and culture. And maybe it's neither random nor surprising, because the cultural budget from the central government was cut in the Stortinget both in 1998, 1999 and 2000. The first two years were the result of a consensus with the Party of Advances and the Right, for the current year a result of the agreement with the Party of Workers was cut, and this harvest has thus reconciled the party of Government with the centre, leading to more money for 2001. Of course, it is an important victory, not just for the centre, which has high ambitions in this area, but primarily for culture, and it is an important victory for those who work for art and culture in different areas. Perhaps some people experience the cultural promise as a handshake and a recognition and as an expression that at Stortinget we actually see the effort being made, and understand the significance of the work being done, for example. the work of the International Cultural Centre and the Museum, Greenland Cultural Station in Oslo, which receives 1 million. This is an increase in the quality and diversity of the traditions and artistic expressions that come to Norway with new population groups — or those related to the symphony orchestras in Trondheim, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Tromsø, bringing together 10 million. kr more, and thus the possibility of further developing its large potential for the benefit of the whole region. The budget agreement provides for a strengthening of both the Norwegian Cultural Fund, the Swedish Audio and Video Foundation and the Norwegian Cultural Council. It will promote innovation and support exciting projects in several songs. In addition, the Norwegian Children's Book Institute is getting a sorely sought-after lift, and the basis for a new Norwegian children's book club under the direction of the Norwegian Society is laid, to mention something. The improvements made in the cultural budget during the treatment in Stortinget involve a clear change in profile. We've fixed up a certain impact page to improve the cultural self-activity across the country. Local and regional cultural buildings are needed, with an increase of 23 million. kr. In addition, I would like to point out that the entire Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, stresses the importance of further development of local and regional buildings in the future. The theatre boat «Innvik» has been rescued again, and it is especially enjoyable for people along the coast. The government’s treatment of the voluntary sector in general and voluntary service in particular is difficult to understand. There is no other area where there is some support from the wider public. We need to take care of the spirit of hard work and what the social network of NGOs stands for locally, in order to create belonging and community, in order to provide opportunities for expansion, creativity and dissemination. I am pleased that the Stortinget is now following up the plans and intentions of the voluntary service, to which the Stortinget has agreed. This means that there is an increase in the budget of both the Ministry of Children and the Family Ministry and the Ministry of Culture of 40 million in total. NOK to follow up on the new grant scheme. I assume, of course, that this is adjusted consistently in line with the Storting's assumptions. There is no doubt that the Council of State for the Ministry of Culture had a tight framework to work with, too narrow – we can probably agree quickly – and I am glad that the Council of State has expressed satisfaction with the increase in the cultural budget. But when the budgetary framework is tight, it is all the more important to give good priority, and then I have to ask a question about the so-called cultural school bag. What is the essence of this measure? It sounds nice, but after a thorough review, it's hard to find that it means a lot different than a brochure at school for next year. I am pleased that this has been reduced somewhat, so that we can strengthen the good offer of school concerts that the Riks Concerts give, by almost 2 million. kr. Let me make it clear that there is a unanimous committee who takes note that the cost estimate for the new opera in Bjørvika has been increased by 14 p.m., to 2 050 million. kr. A tight financial management is necessary, and Stortinget is aware that safe procedures have been put in place to ensure this. It is gratifying that broad agreement has been reached in the Stortinget – all except for the Progress Party – to reject the Government's proposal for tenders in connection with the national advertising-funded television concession. Tenders do not belong in such a context. Tenders just show who has the biggest economic muscle, and that's basically a bad criterion. There is a broad consensus that there is a need for remuneration for the concession as set out in the proposal. It is stated in the proposal for Decision VII: «Other decisions are taken by the Government as concession authority.» I want to underline this. The matter has once again come to the right track. The majority of the Committee does not accept that the NRK, in its revised plans, is abandoning television broadcasts for Northern Ireland. The year-long conflict between the majority of the population and the NRK has its roots from the time before the NRK became a limited liability company. It is now possible to discuss whether majority comments, such as those in the 1996-97 Committee's position, are binding, but the follow-up to the Stortinget makes the majority's clarification important here and now. Of course it has to be followed up. At the same time, I would like to stress that although the Stortinget has been particularly involved in two district offices, namely Nordland and Østfold, it must not be interpreted as if it is free to take away from other district offices to build them. District offices throughout the country should be strengthened, not weakened. The Council of State said in the Great Britain Questionnaire earlier in the fall that if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals that would lead to changes in the regional policy structure, the matter would require political consideration. The majority agree with this. NRK is one of our most important cultural institutions. Many are now concerned with the future of the NRK and are taking part in the work, most recently in the newspapers today. The NRK is a public limited liability company and it is important that the NRK’s board of directors be given the leeway to make the necessary savings and re-priorities in order to bring ‘balance the operating profit’, as expressed by the majority of the Committee. This is, of course, correct. On the other hand, it can't be that the development of the NRK is unrelated to us. On the contrary. There is a need for a public debate on the NRC. What kind of NRK do we really want? What gives the public broadcaster legitimacy? How to ensure good quality and depression? What are the core functions of the NRK? I am of those who still believe that the NRK should contribute to public education, or in other words, an enlightened people, which is important for democracy and democracy. I admit that it might be considered by some to be a little trendy, but it might be. Licensing funding is compulsory. One-sided focus on viewer counts and hence tabloidization cannot be the lead star for the NRK. Finally, I would like to refer to the setting, especially for the framework areas 1 and 2, on which I have not spent any particular time. But let me again challenge the Kosmo State Council. It is with anticipation and excitement that I look forward to the announced steps he will take to make a good public sector even better. The alternative to change is often confusion. Conversion and renewal are therefore necessary. I believe that the Council of State will address this work with the best assumptions, with courage and strength, insight and vision for the community. For we must call around the community and ensure all equal access to adequate, comprehensive and ever better services, not for us as customers, as many express it – I simply don't make myself see us as customers in a market – but primarily as people and people with different needs [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e574	We are on our way into the last financial year of a growing period that started with a fierce and acute debate on cash support. The cash support system we have today was adopted with the Centre party as the decisive weight on the scale. It is therefore with great interest that I record the play to the Vice President of the Center Party, Åslaug Haga, that the cash support should only go to those who are actually at home with the children. This must mean that far into the management of the Centre Party you can see that the cash support system we have today is not working properly and is not very good at all. With this in mind, I will be allowed to ask the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, the following question: The Central Party assumes that the Left and Christian People's Party will change its view in relation to the cash support, or the Central Party is willing to continue to pay 3,000 million. kr in the year to keep the center option alive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e582	Of course, we are willing to pay a high price to ‘keep alive’ – as the representative called it – and take care of the centre option, which is the only realistic option for the workers’ party government. I would also like to say in that context that I think we have made a good budgetary settlement in the autumn between the centre parties and the Labour Party. So that was the question of the cash support. It's a little controversial in many ways, but it's right, as the committee leader pointed out, that it's become very popular, and there's a lot of people who have enjoyed it and who have based their everyday life on it. It has now been decided not to extend the scheme beyond three years – at least not initially. And so what is important is that both from the previous one and from the current government and the state council, it is announced a review, an evaluation that comes to spring. So we'll see how this actually works. Like the program committee that Åslaug Haga has chaired for the Central Party, I'm not a stranger to the need to look at the requirements regarding this possibility of seagoing at home with the children. Freedom of choice is important, and freedom of choice must ensure that those who want it can be at home with their own children. That's our point. So we're going to have to wait for the evaluation. I expect that this will also be a theme at the Central Party National Meeting, for it has been set up by our Programme Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e591	There is a lot that separates the Progress Party and the Center Party in the cultural field, but there are also some things that we have in common. Among the things that we do not agree on are for example: The press support, which we have talked a little about here today. It's at 180 million. kr. When one sees who gets this press subsidy, one sees that it is the five-six largest newspapers in Norway that take more than half of it. Does the representative consider this to be a proper distribution? Can the representative defend this with free, independent newspapers when these newspapers are just so dependent on this state support? So for this with guarantee income, which is about Seventy-five million. kr. It is a special scheme for a group of self-employed people – who at least I choose to call them – who receive a guarantee income that lasts their entire working life. Of these 75 million. kr is only NOK 2 436 000 available for this year that we are now going into, and it shows how much of this item is already bound up. Is this right? So to NRK and NRK2. The centre party says they're a district party, and I have full respect for what they say. But then we have this with the coverage of NRK2, which is a lot of people who don't get in. We pay the license to have an appliance, but at the same time one requires a certain product to come out of this apparatus. The NRK is paying for this, but there are so many people who are not getting NRK2 out. So a little bit about the new opera house, which had an economic framework of a certain amount. We now hear that it might be $1 billion more expensive. The concrete question for the Zenterpartiet is: How far can the Zenterpartiet be – purely financially, in dollars – in order for us to have a new opera house?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e604	Let me do the last one first, about how far we're willing to go when it comes to the opera. The stork has decided that the opera should be located in Bjørvika. The party of progress was against it. The size has also approved a scheme and today gives its support to an increase in the estimate, so that the sum is now NOK 2050000000. The government has committed itself to a very tight project management and will return to Stortinget with a pre-project in 2002. Then I'm not here, but maybe the representative Bredvold is here. At least I think it is important to stress that this project will be completed, and I am not worried that this will come out of control. On the contrary, I am convinced that in this context a long planning phase and a very good follow-up of the project have been set up all the way. So Bredvold said there's a lot that separates the Progress Party and the Center Party in the cultural field. That's probably general, I'd say. There's a lot that separates us, and I'm happy with that. With regard to the press support, it is well known that we have a different view of it. We think it is important to preserve diversity, and then I think about it in writing – that is, the newspapers. We are not prepared to become a media support in general, as was mentioned here instead. And it's like it's the meaningful national newspapers that take the largest share of the press support. The press support system was reviewed by a press support committee, and we are now awaiting its follow-up in the Central Party of the Government. In the case of NRK and NRK2, I also agree that it is a big problem that not everyone gets NRK2. The size has accepted that this is how it must be, but then I put a question mark on the program profile that goes on for example. quality films are only sent in NRK2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e615	I note that the former general assembly in the NRK has now suddenly taken a position here in the Stortinget where what she herself warned against is now being made a point, namely an attempt from the Stortinget to control and direct the NRK. I want to know what the experience of the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, was when she herself was appointed as Minister of Culture. How did the NRK respond to signals from the General Assembly and the political environment? And what signals did the representative Enger Lahnstein give to Einar Förde and NRK, because there's a lot of what we're now seeing happening in the NRK, that's been building up for years? For example: Minister of Culture Enger Lahnstein is concerned that the NRK is severely overseen – 3,600 posts? What signals did the then Minister of Culture give? It might be interesting to hear, because what we're now seeing is a consequence of the lack of conversion in the NRK. So it's a budget of more than $3 billion! Does the representative, Mr Lahnstein, think that it should be possible to produce good district programmes, cultural programmes and foreign matter within such a large budget? Otherwise, I want to point out one thing, which really doesn't surprise me – I know the Center Party quite well in time. The proposal for cash support which the Central Party is now launching in its programme debate, and which I hope the representative Mr Lahnstein will oppose, is a proposal tailored to one group, namely those who have their work at home, for example. on the farm. They will be the only ones who will receive cash support with the Senter Party's new arrangements. Is it a coincidence? And won't the Center Party and Anne Enger Lahnstein work for cash support to be a system that can be combined with kindergarten? That's what we've agreed on here in Stortinget. The proposal of the Centre Party precludes this. In my opinion, it is a clear step backwards in relation to the solution we have now taken, which offers the opportunity to combine kindergarten and care at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e622	Regarding the cash support, I would like to await the review and evaluation that comes from the Government. We'll have to look at it first. And with regard to the debate on the Central Party programme, it's not unreasonable that I also await the national meeting of the party. So Greece challenges me as a former Minister of Culture and General Assembly in the NRK on what I actually said and did in that context. That's a funny question, I'd say. I may be reminded by the representative from the Right that I had at least the pleasure of appointing a new board of directors with Kåre Willoch. In the type of construction that a State AS is, of course, it is the board that, in consultation with the administration, sets up the arrangement and ensures that there is a balance in the framework. I explained that as a general assembly to Chairman Willoch. I think it can be confirmed. It was a little special for me, but the job was done. Otherwise, I said in my post that the NRK is a public limited liability company, and it is important that the board be given the leeway to make the necessary savings and re-priorities to bring the operating profit into balance. That's why it's now important not to steer the NRK from here after the new model, but we have to be able to have a public debate about how these 3 billions are actually used. Licensing has to do with legitimacy, and I think the NRK is an excellent cultural institution. They carry out their mission well in many ways, but they have a problem with administration, and they have a problem – perhaps – in looking at how to prioritize and profile the NRK at a time when licence funding may change due to technological developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e633	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e636	In a dry week, it's Christmas Eve. For at least 70 000 poor children in Norway, there will be a Christmas with parents who grapple with Christmas Eve because they do not have money for Christmas celebrations in the usual sense. A mother who fears that her son’s Christmas celebration will become known says this: “We can’t afford Christmas trees, candy or having friends to visit.” While the growing and richer middle class children can look forward to a mountain of packages under the Christmas tree, there are some children who can’t bring new clothes to school after Christmas. Differences are increasing. It is incomprehensible when social clients with children are denied extra money for Christmas celebrations. It's to deprive children and parents of dignity. No children and young people in Norway will have to have childhood affected by a life of poverty. SV has therefore launched an action plan against child poverty this autumn. As part of this plan, there is a national minimum standard of living for the provision of social assistance, a housing policy for people with poor advice, better living conditions for single dependants, one-off income support that is not curtailed for those receiving social assistance, a childcare provision that is financially available to all those seeking childcare, and leisure and cultural services for all children and young people. We want a society where children and young people should not live in poverty. Red Children says in a report that the number of poor children is increasing. 40 pst. of these children are children of non-Western immigrants. Rich Norway can afford to eliminate poverty, which excludes more and more children. It is a shame to Norway that we have not managed to create a welfare society that cares for the weakest. The future is to bet on children and young people, and then the possibility of giving a good upbringing must apply to all children and young people. It is not possible to pursue an Uncle Screw Policy towards the future generation. SV will have a fair distribution society, both income and living conditions, between all social groups and generations. This means that people who need help must have a chance to stand on their own, but those who need help must also have the resources to provide real help. Strengthening the local economy is an important part of this. SV will have an obligatory plan for allocating the costs to kindergarten, so that parental payments are reduced to a level that allows nursery facilities for all children and that makes the main common arena for children under school age available to all. The reports now received include: Oslo, that kindergartens are laid down, there are more children in the wards, and kindergartens become messy. Children's playgrounds for all children at an affordable price are simply not possible without a strong stepping up of State aid and an improved local economy. SV believes that it is now necessary to re-assess the legalisation of the individual right to children's gardening, so that children can be guaranteed children's gardening and their parents have a foreseeable situation to deal with. SV promotes proposals for the legalisation of individual entitlement to kindergarten as of 1 January 2002. We want to remove the cash support and use the funds that are tied up to it to strengthen the kindergartens, also in terms of quality, and to lower the parental payment. Violence against women is a big problem, both here at home and out in the world. SV will have a women's violence committee to coordinate the work of collecting knowledge and making violence against women visible. We believe that greater emphasis needs to be placed on men's own responsibility for the exercise of violence. We think it is crazy that the perpetrator of violence should stay in his own home, while the partner and any children should seek refuge in crisis centres. The high proportion of women with a minority background seeking refuge in crisis centres must be taken seriously, and one of the measures that are now over-matured is the change in the 3-year rule. Today it creates insecurity and fear for women who come to Norway after marrying a Norwegian man, and then discover that the spouse is violent. I would like to congratulate the National Association of Lesbian and Homophile Liberation on an allocation that allows the organisation to carry out its extensive work in a dignified manner. At the same time, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State in the draft budget has taken seriously the SV's proposal from the previous budgetary procedure to create a separate budget line. SV has for a number of years been waiting for the majority to see the light at the other end of the tunnel and to contribute to the majority for increased appropriations, and this year it finally worked. SV believes that art and culture are the very yeasts of society. We have recorded that the yeast has also bubbled a little bit to some people lately. Cultural policy is about the work of society and individuals with goals and meaning, about aesthetic and ethical qualities, about our ability to develop creativity and recognition, and about opportunities to get challenges and experiences. Therefore, good framework conditions must be created for the further development of artistic traditions and for innovative and untraditional cultural activities. Therefore, art must be given a much more important place in public space, through media policy, school and kindergarten policy and through the design of our common physical environment. There is no lack of festivities on the importance of art and culture. Festive speech is important, but there is so little to it when large parts of cultural life are referred to small money, buttons and glossy images. Requirements for profitability and growing self-income may threaten diversity and pave the way for innovation. By giving space and arms to art and culture and guaranteeing everyone the right to participate in cultural life, this society can in future be secured by curious, creative and creative people and become a society of diversity and space for innovation. SV will help raise the art and culture from the celebrations. That is why we are proposing a stepping-up plan to increase the allocation of art and culture through Framework Area 3 to at least 1 pst. by the State budget by 2005. That is a realistic and modest objective, and I am surprised that we are now alone in this proposal. I'm asking, how do the other parties that are behind such ambitious goals of cultural initiative in e.g. the ABM message intend to achieve this goal if one is not willing to set a goal of such a modest increase? In our draft budget, we proposed an increase for next year of 300 million. kr, and we have specified how these millions could strengthen the free performing arts and music life, the multicultural work, the local cultural life, the artists' place in society and the dissemination of Norwegian art abroad. 300 million. kr – a tenth frigate – is small money. When our primary cultural budget was voted down in the financial debate, we have chosen to go into the majority's draft budget, which, after all, was an improvement on what the Government came up with. The government's proposals in SV seem to us to have been puzzled by the fact that many had gone high on the track and promised culture a boost. Behind it was a traditional and centralizing way of thinking. The cut in cultural funds, in regional and local cultural buildings and the proposal for the closure of Norway’s floating culture house ‘Innvik’ were the signs of such a process of thought. I am pleased that the budgetary agreement has corrected something, and at least that it means a new chance for «Innvik». We in SV like to praise the centre parties, but share the honor of this victory because we, together with other actors, would not give in, but kept the question warm. We can promise that we will not give in to other important areas either. We see that it actually pays off. Grenland Fritheater has been standing alone for years to defend. Now a majority understands that the theatre has shown its justification, has been involved in renewing parts of Norwegian stage art and deserves operating resources. We are pleased that a majority now agree with SV that the free professional scene groups through innovative and experimental scene expressions and dance are important supplements to and must be partners with the institutions. Then it's a paradox to just 3-4 pst. of the appropriations for professional performing arts goes to the free groups, which now need to be ensured increased funding for projects and operations. When a majority is involved in this description of reality, it commits. I hope that the majority on the next crossroads will agree that increased funds are needed for the alternative scenes, the Dance Art Centre and the Dance House, and that it would mean an overall lifting in the field of free performing arts. It is good that the regional symphony orchestras are ensured a decent level. But SV is now challenging to ensure important contemporary music actors like Ultima, BIT 20 and Oslo Sinfonietta. Local cultural life is an important pillar of Norwegian cultural life. A living local cultural life depends on artists being able to live and live throughout the country. Then they have to get a job. That is why I am disappointed that the majority of the choirs in the decoration scheme for municipal and county buildings. This I will come back to. I then deal with the suggestions included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e672	Ågot Valle has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e677	The representative, Ågot Valle, was interested in important things in his article and put the search light on, among other things. the challenges associated with poor children in Norway, which give us perspectives that we must also include in this debate, the challenge of equality is linked to violence against women. We record that many crisis centers especially around the celebrations get extra requests for help from people who are in the world and who, under different conditions, are under control. It is important to focus on the work being done on crisis centres, but also on what one can do to get away with private power, both against women and children and others that may go beyond it. Ågot Valle and SV propose to remove the entire amount of cash in the budget. I found it rather surprising that there could not be a gradual slowdown in the amount – the whole amount disappeared in August – compared to those who have arranged their lives and their everyday lives on cash support. Hasn't the representative, Mr. Ågot Valle, considered what problematic situations those who have settled after the cash support might face? Art and culture are Ågot Valle engaged in, and SV, in its alternative budget, has even more resources for culture than we have. But in the committee setting, the representative has joined the priorities of the Centre Party and the Labour Party. Would you say that SV is very satisfied with what the center part has got, and is also summed up in the alignment of these extra pluses?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e686	First to the cultural budget. It's clear that I'm glad that the centre got through a good increase in the cultural budget, but there's a long way to go about giving art and culture real space and armsstrokes, so that it can secure people good experiences and develop creative forces in this society. And that's why I'm so concerned that we now need an obliging escalating plan to secure the art and culture really armshake. I don't believe anything in a non-binding statement that you're going to work to bring up the art and culture, without one having a goal, a plan for how one will achieve that goal. Do I agree with the device? I think that the cultural budget in many ways corrected the shortcomings for which I criticized the government's budget. But even though I chose to go for the majority budget here, it's clear that I could think of some other suggestions, among other things. that the Music Workshop Scheme – what goes to «World Music» – could be ensured. So to cash support. The representative has probably noticed that we do not propose to liquidate the cash support overnight, but that we want to liquidate the cash support from the summer of. And with our bet on kindergartens and proposals for individual rights to kindergarten, we believe that the cash support can be used much better for other measures that will benefit children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e701	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e704	The Left approves the Committee's budget, which is the result of the negotiations between the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. Through this work, the cultural budget was strengthened by 75 million in the Financial Committee. kr, which is found satisfactory by the left. It straightened out a weak budget in advance, and has made committee work easier. A number of valuable measures can be supported more satisfactorily. I mention the strengthening of regional and regional sub-institutions and thus the better condition of the regional symphony orchestras in Stavanger, Trondheim and Kristiansand. Local and regional cultural buildings are reinforced by 23 million. kr. It is also important that innovation in several cultural genres is stimulated. In the case of Eidsvoll 1814 – Rikspolitische Zentrum, the Left wishes that the Ministry does not establish final land-frames contrary to the Stortingen intention when setting up the Centre. I mean, budget-inner. S. No In particular, the Centre Parties have been given the advantage of prioritising the voluntary sector and culture by increasing the allocation of more chapters and items, with an additional 15 million pointing to the grant scheme for non-governmental organisations. In addition, the budgetary agreement does not introduce the proposed short-term economic tax, which means that non-governmental organisations avoid an increase in costs of about EUR 10 million. One hundred million. kr. This shows that the Centre and the Workers' Party have quite different views on voluntary and cultural Norway. I myself come from an environment in Frogn Municipality where – I had almost said – great cultural achievements are carried out each year using voluntary efforts, and I must say that the work of the previous Minister of Culture for some small money more to the volunteers, has succeeded and given very large counts in the cultural field compared to many others and significantly greater appropriations. The left is concerned with the renewal and efficiency of the management. It is a work that needs to be prioritised more and more. The central government started work on ‘Simplifying Norway’, a programme that included both regulatory changes and organisational changes. This will also involve user orientation, transparency and service, and it is vital for Velferds-Norway to continue this work. Only this can ensure that a maximum share of public resources is used to produce the best possible services for most people, organisations and associations. The left is pleased that several public agencies are gradually producing service declarations for their users. It is important to work to improve the conditions of child rearing, both the 70 000 children living below the poverty line and those for whom society has to take responsibility. It is important that child protection is enhanced and systematised. A large number of studies show that in most cases long-term out-of-home placement of children is harmful. The introduction of measures to help the child in the community is more effective. Therefore, care takeovers should have a high threshold. In particular, cities have major problems with children and young people. It is therefore appropriate to increase the contribution to youth action in larger urban communities, so that an increased level of prevention of undesirable social behaviour such as violence, bullying, crime and drug addiction can be achieved. Recently, alarming reports of major recruitment to drug settings have been received. It is therefore important to put preventive measures in place in this area. The Left therefore supports the majority’s proposal to use the increased grant to achieve, in particular, those youth groups that use the existing cultural and leisure services to a small extent. The government had cut the adoption aid to NOK 15 000 per year in its draft government budget. a child. The adoption grant is intended to counteract the bias in the social distribution of adoption in relation to the economy of the parents. It is therefore gratifying to conclude that the amount was increased by means of budgetary cooperation, although the amount is still below the Swedish and Danish authorities. The left is, as you know, not in the committee, and I am therefore right on the occasion to clarify that the left also refuses to auction the TV concession. I have asked the previous Minister of Culture earlier in this room if we should not charge ourselves for concessions, and it is now a pleasure to see that we intend to do so. And I would like to point out that this money that we're getting in here, the current Minister of Culture should consider letting go to the production environments for TV, because these are not good in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e730	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e733	As the representative Johansen said in his statement, the Left is not represented in the Committee. I was actually going to open up asking whether the Left joined the comments of the center parties in the committee. Now I didn't ask for it, because the representative Johansen confirmed it through his post, as he in a way quoted the comments that I had intended to challenge the representative – and that goes with ‘Simplify Norway’. The representative Johansen quoted from the comment here, and therefore it is much easier for me to ask the questions: Is the Left and the representative Johansen satisfied with what has been done in relation to creating ‘Simplifying Norway’? Does the representative Johansen and Left think that there are results from such work? And can the representative Johansen and Left point to where there has been a simplification and rationalisation that is in the best interests of public, business and organisations, as the comment says? As far as I am aware, at least the area in which the left has been very concerned, this with the form field, has gone in a direct opposite direction. The formic field grew violently while the Left itself was in government, and it continues to grow. Another thing is that some people have gradually begun to point to all the new laws that are being passed. Some have gone so far as to say that we are now adopting so many laws that you fear that all the nordics become criminals in some way whatever you do, because all the new laws that are passed in a way are preventing development. Ideally, I would have had an answer as to whether the representative Johansen can show results.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e744	I have to say that the time to carry out the ‘Simplify Norway’ project was short-lived. We would like to continue the work that was started. I am not satisfied with the pace and how far we have reached. However, a significant amount of work was done, including: in the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the State Council of Lars Sponheim, where it was initially possible to identify all the 12 000 laws, regulations and regulations which intervened in, among others. the daily life of business. What was achieved during the reign of this government council was among other things. to start the Device Register in Brønnøysund. In the past, the same data had to be reported three times to three different instances, but now these are collected in one place. Having said that, I have to say that there is every reason to intensify the work. I will allow myself to point out a main reason why this work is going very slowly: we are sitting in this room causing most of the pain that people suffer in their daily lives. The last example here, which I have registered now, was something, among other things. The Progress Party was there and applauded here a year and a half ago when we passed the Financial Contracts Act, which the whole Storting seemed to be a gifted invention that was to protect vergeless consumers from these ‘joint’ financial institutions. It has led to a form field without equal again, because of course the banks have made sure that their lawyers now come with lots of contracts in small writing, such as the representative Sandberg and I have to sign in order to have a bank account at all. There we have the blame, and I hope that together we can try to find a solution to this, because I think people have greater freedom in some areas. They are able to protect themselves, at least they can manage without the kind of protection that this house occasionally imposes on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e753	It's not quite common for me to take a line on a so-called centermate, so I have a good reason to do that. And it's not because this has no bridge towards the Left or Terje Johansen, but simply because I want to use the opportunity to clarify a matter I didn't get into my post, namely the Rikspolitische Zenter at Eidsvoll. There is the fact that the central parties in the committee have split up at one point, and I now understand that the Left gives its support to the Christian People's Party, while the Central Party secures the majority! The reason for this is not that I am not concerned with caring for Stortinget's intention to develop the Rikspolitische Zenter on Eidsvoll, but simply that I am convinced that this matter, the realization of the Rikspolitische Zenter on Eidsvoll – it has been a difficult journey – has now come into a good track. We're going to connect to 10 million. extra for fire protection of the Eidsvollsbyggen, as required. The entire Committee welcomes the clarification of a new location option and believes that it is important to speed up further design towards full implementation of the important national cultural building. It will be completed by the national anniversary of 2005 and I am convinced that a new review of the space programme will only delay this matter and be completely unnecessary. I believe that the Committee here has expressed itself in such a way that the Government has full back coverage, at least from a majority, to move forward with the work of realising the plans in line with the Stortinge's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e762	It is with unlimited enthusiasm that I allow myself to be exploited by the representative Lahnstein. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the rich Norway is not even really able to take care of their national klenodies, and I find that regrettable. I'm in the finance committee, and I still know the pain in my body after long nights to find money to do things that we think are most necessary. With regard to the Rikspolitische Zenter on Eidsvoll, I find it regrettable that we cannot pursue the ambitions that the Stortinget put forward, and I think that there is reason for the Stortinget to take a discussion about it again. That's why we join in the comment that the Christian People's Party has put in the setting. I hope we have opportunities to show a little bit more ambition than the large-scale majority has now added up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e771	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e774	For the Workers' Party, it is important to give everyone the opportunity to experience culture and to participate and develop in this context. There is some background when the Workers' Party now announces a strong commitment to children and young people in school. In this way, we can help make art and culture accessible and understandable to people most and avoid an elite cultural consumption that we see from the statistics that we have to a large extent. When society spends money on the production of art and culture, it's because those qualities are also going to benefit most people. Since the last cultural announcement in 1993, the aim of the Workers' Party has been to prioritize art and culture towards children and young people. Now we're moving on to strengthen the dissemination and production also in school. It will eventually come to light in the form of a generalisation of art and culture that will make it better distributed in this country. Globalisation represents challenges and opportunities for Norwegian culture that we need to focus on in the future. This means that cultural policy must be based on the diversity we have in our society. Security and knowledge of your own art and culture are necessary to respect, understand and benefit others. Art has always been a good source of inspiration and trends from other cultures, which have helped to develop and enrich our own art and culture production. Therefore, it is a challenge both to strengthen the dissemination of own production and to create arenas to strengthen contact with others. Globalization gives opportunities if we can see it. One of the challenges it gives us is to counteract the division of knowledge that is forming the basis of a new class society. This also applies here at home. That is why it is good that the Workers' Party is now getting a real commitment to developing broadband that makes information technology more accessible to everyone, regardless of wallet and residence. The libraries have been important in public information, and I don't think they will be less important in the future. And then I want to say, finally. Finally, we have received a Minister of Culture who has seen the importance and opportunities of the Norwegian film environment. For the first time in recent years, we have a promise in the appropriations for Norwegian film production, and we have a long-lasting change in the Norwegian film bureaucracy, among other things. to give a greater focus to production. In addition, we have included in the concession terms of the next TV 2 concession holder that money should be allocated for film production. That's an opportunity I know the film environments have been waiting for, and I hope to continue in the years to come. But the restructuring that is taking place is not without problems. A joint committee warns against the collection of power that we can get, but with the focus that has been on this, I'm sure we'll avoid such a situation. Of course, the producer and director should be the most important in the development of a film project. There is also reason to stress that now that Norsk Film AS is closed as its production company, there is a risk of production drying in the environment. That's why it's a little bit urgent to get a new fund in place. Productions have already been deferred and should have been decided. And if it's not done quickly, we'll probably experience that for the third consecutive year, we get low film production. We can't afford that, either we, the producers or the film workers. We lose competence when we all know that we actually need more of it. In the summer, the first hill comes out of the film school at Lillehammer. I have previously asked for an initiative to get them into production as soon as possible. The purpose of the school was not to train people for advertising film production, so it requires a little extra attention in the future, both from us and from the film environments. District operations were introduced as a concept a few years ago. We have chosen to await the forthcoming action plan before further action is taken on the development of opera art. On the other hand, it is necessary to follow up some of the debate we had exactly a year ago, when it was made very clear that our big cities, with several projects, had to be stimulated and pushed for cooperation. Not least, the last year’s allocation to the Tronder Opera, which is the only one of the four beneficiaries, was concerned. It turned out that Trondheim has the power to develop cooperation and that this year a joint application for funds has been sent to co-productions. I therefore expect this year's allocation to be used in line with this, so that we do not interfere with the development that should and will take place regionally. In the Ministry of Administration’s budget, it is once again proposed to close the Regional Offices of the Competition Authority. In the past, the Storting has been transformed to take care of the important tasks that they have related to consumer interests. As we decided in the Consumer Notice, we now want to transfer this to the consumer appliance. Of course, we are pleased that the Council of State is now following up. In this way, by means of renewal and simplification, we can contribute to the strengthening of both competition and consumer authorities, for it is well beyond doubt that these two areas are becoming increasingly important in order to achieve the political objectives we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e793	The word culture has different meaning for each of us. For some, culture is a very important element that has a major impact on the quality of life, while others have other elements that have an equal importance for their quality of life. Unfortunately, some people believe that a good culture depends on strong state, county or municipal support. On the other hand, the Progress Party believes that there are not necessarily the number of crowns that are most relevant to the quality of the culture. So-called cultivators say that there is too little money spent on culture, but in an article in the Evening Post of December 14th this year, it says that you should never have used so much municipal funds in this area before. The same applies to the counties. Let's look at this budget. Here the Progress Party wants to reduce the budget by 819 070 000 kroner. By reducing this area, the Progress Party may use these funds for other, more quality purposes, so that the everyday life of those living in Norway can improve. There is no doubt that there are areas in which the re-prioritized resources of the Advance Party can be used more properly than the majority wishes. Despite our reductions, the Progress Party is left with nearly 3 billion cultural crowns that we want to use in a fairer way than our political competitors. While the other batches want to spend a lot of money on measures affecting a smaller group, such as: resources for opera, the Progress Party wishes to spend money on broad culture and measures specifically earmarked for children and young people, as well as the elderly and others who may have problems for a variety of reasons. The Progress Party also wants the funds to be channelled to those who know the need the closest and – not least – the best, in order to get the maximum out of each krona. In the sub-proposal of the Progress Party, we have spent 800 million. kr just in these areas, where we've put 500 million. SEK on the Children’s Culture/Activities Fund and 300 million. kr for the same purpose for the elderly – this is precisely because all the funds are to be spent so that these groups too can enjoy them. In the main budget of the Progress Party, we have also reduced this time, among other things. in the following areas: Party of Progress has removed 180 million. kr on the production grant of the press support, because the Progress Party wants a free and independent press. It's very valuable to society that there's a pattern built on this. The press must and must be independent of the authorities. With this, we'll be able to get new ideas and maybe an even better offer to us newspaper readers. It should also be a crossroads of thought for everyone to see how much of this production aid goes to the five-six largest newspapers in this country. Otherwise, the Progress Party wishes to reduce the maximum amount of Guarantee Income item. The Party considers that these persons, in line with other self-employed persons, should be able to live by what they produce. The Party of Progress does not wish to guarantee one group a minimum income over others. The Progress Party also wants to remove the item Decorating public buildings, which is a post-awarded artist and not necessarily the buildings, whose owners have to pay for this. So for chapter Film and Media purposes, where the Progress Party also wants to reduce a lot. It cannot be a government task to finance, among other things. popular and entertainment films. Such productions must be able to stand on their own legs. In a radio program on P4 on 10 December this year, I heard Hermank Kråkevik say that there is a lot of bad film being made, and that this is too much of a social democratic way of thinking. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. Another point I want to say about is the purchasing system for the libraries. Here the libraries are used a lot of books that they can't borrow. They're just standing there taking the space, and they're dusting down. It must be much better that the individual libraries get these resources and can rather buy books that people want to read. This will increase the readership of people, and that must be important. Otherwise, the Progress Party wants to reduce the chapter Theatre and Opera objectives by a significant amount, precisely in order to increase the quality of life of the wider population by the fact that this major item has to be distributed among many more people. The Progress Party is often criticised for reducing only the cultural budget. But the Progress Party wants to increase, among other things. entry Grant scheme for non-governmental organisations with a total of 17 million. kr. The progress party also wants to give our three national sailing ships a good economy, and has earmarked $12 million. NOK to this. Otherwise, the Progress Party would like to see more use of cultural resources, as mentioned earlier, against children and young people as well as the elderly rather than subsidising schemes to well-established adult people. Otherwise, the Progress Party wants to reduce the NRK licence. There's a lot of people who feel this is unfair, and there's still a lot of people who don't get the NRK2. It seems a cowardly thing to say that the NRK licence is a fee for owning a TV set and not for the NRK product. In the case of the Rikspolitische Zenter, mentioned earlier here today, the Progress Party is in line with the other parties in favour of this. In conclusion, I would like to highlight the thoughts of the Advance Party on culture. The party wants a lot of culture, but unlike the other parties, we want a culture that is free of political governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e837	The government has tried and fortunately managed to get discussion and activity around the renewal of the public sector. And why have we done that? Well, that's because we see that there's so much need to get a renewal, a renewal where we have to be willing to go in and look at how we do the tasks in this community, and why we do it. This is not a matter of outsourcing, efficiency or privatisation. It is about the will and ability to look at how we allocate responsibility for both the welfare and the security of the population between the different levels of government. Some of the most serious challenges that have arisen as a result of changes in society are mainly in three key areas. First, we see that today we have, and we are going to have significantly more in the future to have major changes in population composition. Secondly, we are going to have major changes both in technological opportunities and in technological challenges. In addition, we have major economic challenges. Of course, I can't go into this five-minute post on all the details of this, but the main device and that we're taking this seriously, I think it's so important that if we don't get to these grips now, it will have to force very dramatic spin operations in just a few years. The population is growing, the population is becoming less homogeneous, the population is rightly also becoming more demanding because opportunities are increasing, and the population is ageing. It has implications for pension obligations, working life and the labour market, which in turn present major challenges for the public sector. Future social security obligations put increasing pressure on the economic free movement of society. It's limited how many people we can tie up in public without affecting the country's competitiveness and the economy. Over the last twenty years, there have been nearly 270,000 more employees in general government and public service production. In particular, the increase is high in the municipal sector. And if we continue on this journey just as before, we will already need another 100,000 more annual works in public with only the agreed reforms in 10 years' time. That's about what we can do to bring about the growth of labour in this society, and I think it's quite obvious that such a policy does not work. Something has to be done. And if we catch up now, we can still solve this in a guided way, so that we get the well-being equally distributed in the Norwegian population. If we wait too long, such a profound reorganisation will have negative consequences that will be difficult to deal with. I'm not stuck under a chair that this is a very difficult process, and it will take time to implement it. However, we are well under way, and there are going to be many small and many large measures that, in the future, both over the next few months and the next few years, will produce good results. We have experience both in central government and in Stortinget in making rules to achieve policy results. Behind every rule there is in most cases a very good purpose. But that's, we've seen, an obvious danger that the legislation is gradually becoming so extensive and so complicated that it becomes a problem both for the administration and for people most. Detail management, comprehensive reporting, more control and increased bureaucracy will be the result. The regulatory management must therefore be challenged and it must be strongly challenged. But if we are to be able to simplify the legislation, we need to address other difficult issues. Will there be major differences due to less detailed management, more delegation and more real municipal autonomy? If so, how should we deal with it? And how far does political responsibility go? Where does the border between the responsibility of the welfare state and the individual have a separate responsibility for? The government is more than willing to think about all of these areas. And I interpret both the debate and the comments in the committee's position in such a way that the government is uplifted by the willingness to change policy in this area. President, it's not light, but it's zero. Am I done?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e855	Yeah, I think so. I hope the Council of State is done. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e862	I would like to challenge the Council of State in an area that he and the Government and the other parties on the Storting may have tried to get behind. It's about a matter we had to deal with in ours, about the so-called crack point. In this context, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to be voted on later today, in which we ask the Ministry of Labour and Administration to present to the Stortinget a matter of ‘consequences and background for the removal of the ‘knock point’ in the first paragraph of Section 14 of the State Pension Fund Act. The reason why I take this up again is that after we dealt with this matter in ours, a lot of signals have emerged from various organisations that were not subject to the change we made. We also remember quite well that there was a strong argument from the Government at the time that if the Committee and the Stortinget did not join the amendments that were from the Government at that time, there was a great danger that the entire tariff settlement would go into the sink. In retrospect, it has been found – also from the negotiating partners – that this was not correct, and that it was not at all the subject of the negotiations, but that it was only a negotiating point where they asked the Government to come back with proposals in retrospect. We got that case tossed to us in a busy period in the spring, and it became an urgent decision. So my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the proposals of the Progress Party should have been given a majority, so that we could have implemented a fair system; not least that this is at least subject to a hearing, so that all organisations and all persons who are in a way subject to the change made to individuals at that time are heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e871	I see what the Progress Party writes in its comments in the committee setting. Fortunately, only those who write it, because I believe that this is a matter that was resolved when we made a decision on this in ours. It was part of the collective bargaining process, and it is part of the work and efforts that need to be made in order to recruit very valuable labour to the state, and in such recruitment, pension issues are important. It shall, of course, apply to those employed under the new conditions. Thus, the Progress Party wants it to apply also to all other former high-wages in the State employed at that time, that they are covered by the ‘knock points’. I just have to say that if, with the challenges we have in Velferds-Norway today, we were to spend an extra £1 billion on pension expenditure, I would at least not spend them on that group. I believe that this question is resolved through the treatment that we had in the Storting in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e882	It could look like the council had more on their hearts and wanted to talk longer. So I'm going to ask a couple of questions that he can get to deepen. There is one thing about the closure of the eight regional offices in the Competition Authority. Cosmo expressed in a letter to the Committee: ‘However, if local regulations continue and prove to be both tough and rough, it must be assumed that the supervision will eventually gain knowledge of the relationship through, among others. reactions from the public, directly as a complaint or referred to in the media.’;» Norwegian civil servants claim that competition regulators could provide a number of examples of gross and long-term competition regulation being implemented in such a way that they cannot be detected by customers or the media. And if supervision is to wait until long-term and severe competition regulation is mentioned in the media, this could lead to non-punitive infringements because the evidence is removed before supervision is reviewed. It might be interesting to right state council cosmo's assessments of this point of view of Norwegian civil servants. The second issue relates to the State Pension Fund, which is also facing major challenges. We have noticed that the number of cases where there are detected errors in the payments has not been reduced, but that the amount of errors has been reduced. It should also have a little attention, because for those who are affected by this, it's unfortunate what the amount is, and one knows it will take time to fix this. But does the Council of State have an additional view of the challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e898	The change in the activities of the Competition Authority and the construction of the apparatus to be used by the Competition Authority to implement a policy for the benefit of the consumer are part of the renewal work of the Government. I'm sorry we didn't get the full impact of this in Stortinget, but there's such a small defeat that life gives. However, I believe that with today's competitive situation, and as the Stortinget has decided through competition law that the Competition Authority should act, the Competition Authority shall not exercise price surveillance. They shall ensure that we have a functioning market and that this market operates in such a way as to serve the interests of consumers – whether they are consumers' interests in competition between companies, or to prevent distortions of competition or overprice. We're doing the best we can by strengthening the units that are going to keep track of the large, leading units. I see that there is a need to strengthen consumer rights at both local and regional level, and therefore I believe that this resource we are releasing should be transferred to the consumer work of consumer offices in the regions. I believe that this certainly provides a much better use of resources for the benefit of consumers. On the second question, if the Pension Fund, the Pension Fund itself works intensively to improve. Here are many old sins they carry, especially the quality of the material they had for a good overview of the pension obligations to individual members. I think this is going in the right direction. I can't specify any time for when we can say that we feel satisfied, but the work is going in the right direction, and the fact that we're going to manage to pay the right pension in due time has the highest priority both from the department and from the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e909	The Kosmo Council of State is not less than saying that he should carry out the greatest renewal of the public sector ever, that is, nothing less than that – the greatest ever! Then it is tempting to remember the old word: big words and fat pork are not stuck in the throat! We can agree that the efficient use of public funds is crucial for the welfare services we receive. In terms of efficiency in this context, there is no question of how much work is being done. Effectiveness means that people need to meet their needs as much as possible with the least possible resource use. This is where the problems of the Workers' Party begin. For when the Right proposes comprehensive measures for the modernisation of the public sector, when we propose deregulation and competitive outsourcing, then one area after another is declared as the peace for the sake of the Commune Union, for the sake of the organisations and for the sake of those who increasingly carry out the paperwork. Because bureaucracy is still increasing, although politicians will do the opposite. Only the Right will allow public enterprises and private enterprises to spend more time on users and less time adapting to unbridled public legislation. Unfortunately, in Norway we have been very short on a proper review of municipal resource use. The working party has so far been the guarantor of the status quo. More than 20 billion of the funds available to the local government sector go to clean administration, and for a sector that has so much of its resources, it is important that a constant effort is made to make better use of resources. Does the Kosmo Government Council believe that it is possible to carry out the greatest restructuring and reorganisation of the public sector if he is not willing to enter into the debate on the launch of competition properly? Is it only possible to continue with public monopoly on the services that people demand?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e920	I believe, in fact, that it should be possible, with the consent of Storting, to carry out the large conversion process in general government. But that means that the Storting must be willing to help end the rule management. This means that the Storting must be willing to release the municipalities more freely, cut out earmarked grants, give the population of the municipalities greater opportunity to make free choices without the municipality being at all times suspended by rules and governance tools presented by the state. That means that in our policies we must be willing to delegate power and authority to a service-producing unit without requiring reporting and control in any context. If we're able to get the political and administrative innovation, that's what will give some value, because then we actually give employees the opportunity to take advantage of their skills, their knowledge, to do the job they're assigned to, for the benefit of the consumer, instead of doing the administrative bureaucracy that we're imposing on them. This will be the most important measure. And then, once the new management systems have been put in place, it will be up to the individual municipality, which is responsible for welfare production in this country, to a very large extent to decide how to do it. I actually don't think the Storting should have ambitions that we should decide, either by law or otherwise. But I'm convinced that if we give the public employees, whether they're in the municipality or in the state, the opportunity to make better use of their skills, we get the efficiency and the improvement in service production that we want. It produces better results than what is Right Medicine, Contest Concession and Privatisation. If there is one thing worse for the consumer than state monopolies, then there are private monopolies. At least we're not supposed to have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e929	I am pleased with the answer that Kosmo now gave to the representative from the Right. We agree that the public sector must be renewed, but then that renewal must come from the left and be based on the principles on which the welfare state has been based today. But then, in several municipalities, there is competition outsourcing and privatisation – in some places because of right-wing ideology, but in other places it is in dire need, because the local economy is as bad as it is. Governments are concerned with increasing sick leave and with the number of unattended ladders. Then I ask: can there be a connection between poor local economy, more business economic thinking also in public, increasing competition, greater pressure on employees and little room for those who cannot deliver 100 pst., or any more than 110 pst.? In this context, but also in the interests of popular governance and transparency in the administration, SV is concerned about the signals contained in the budget, that more government administrations should be able to be released. I am also involved in the regional offices of the Competition Authority. And then I asked, "Why such a hurry?" A minimum requirement must be that decisions are justified in the context of an impact assessment and that employees are included on advice. During the Nordic meeting of competition authorities in Lillehammer in the autumn, Norway’s regional competition authorities were just drawn up as an example of good organisation in order to detect illegal competition regulation. So, sir. State Council: Why such a hurry? Why not justify this decision in an impact assessment? Perhaps, then, it turns out that what the Council of State is now proposing is the right thing to do — but speed is cargo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e938	I think it's actually healthy that you give yourself something to think about in a corporate economic direction in the public sector. I'm not saying we're going to take over all the business-economic calculation models that you use in your private business, because they don't fit in with the public, where we're going to make sure to distribute to the population through welfare services. That's what's the main reason for the business we're doing. But we also have to learn to make some financial demands about how businesses are going to work. In that sense, it may be reasonable, in particular in establishments with a high level of direct service production, to release the establishments in such a way that they themselves can take responsibility for the service production they are to provide. In fact, I believe that a nursing home that is exempted from the municipality – not as a separate independent entity, not as a limited company, but is free to do its job without interference from the local government and local government in any way – will be able to produce better services for the population than a nursing home that should be regulated and detailed. But that does not mean that I believe that the hospital should be operated after purely business-economy thinking. Then the representative says I'm in a hurry. Since the price law was amended and the State's price control was abandoned, when we drove and walked around shops and controlled prices, there has been a continuous process in an attempt to reconstruct the Competition Authority to become an active instrument nationally. But it has always been stopped for district policy reasons. Now, fortunately, we've managed to do this, and it's not in a hurry, it's taken ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e950	I have to say I was a little surprised at the answer I received from the Council of State on my previous line. There must be great misunderstandings out there and going. Otherwise, the Council of State is cleverly trying to bypass facts. So once again, he says that this was kind of part of the collective agreement. It is correct that the break point was taken up as a matter during the spring settlement in the state, and this settlement we know went to mediation. The result of the mediation is set out in the Riksmeklingsmann's meeting book. There is nothing to say that pensioners should be kept outside. Something like that was not mentioned during the negotiations either. I have confirmed this. So it's a little weird that the department shortens the mediation results. I can't find any other way of expressing it but that neither the department nor the Stortinget should consider itself empowered to redefine what is contained in the Riksmeklingsmann's meeting book. Because I feel like the Council of State is doing that now. I would like to repeat my question and get as clear an answer as possible, because in a letter from the Council of State to the Committee in ours it was clear and clear: if this is not adopted, tariffs are in great danger. Then my question is, is this right? If it is the case that the Council of State has in some way defined this as a separate problem, I believe that the matter must be passed on. Nor was it stated in the Riksmeklingsmann’s meeting book that this was an urgent paragraph, so that this was not to be heard by the parties concerned. I think it's a little strange that the Council of State can't give a clear answer as to whether this was a definitive claim from the parties, or whether the Council of State has defined it itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e962	We are negotiating with the social partners in the context of tariff negotiations in the public sector. In most cases, the result is a sum of what individual employee organisations have as a requirement and what the employer – in this case the country – has as an offer. This year's tariff settlement, as in the case of previous tariff settlements, has required employees' organisations to remove the break point. It was an important element for them, on their part, to also ensure that the groups whose interests they care for had pension conditions that they thought were in line with the pay conditions they had. This was therefore included as part of the Riksmeklingsmann's meeting book as a result of the mediation. We accepted this mediation, and it is my responsibility to ensure that the entire collective settlement, including this, is presented to Stortinget in connection with the processing. We can't just take out the details of this without it probably being relevant to the whole of the uprising – excuse me, the settlement, I had almost said to avoid that there was an uprising! That's why I actually mean what I wrote in that letter. Because this was part of the overall outcome of the tariff settlement, it was important that it be implemented as it was foreseen by the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e971	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e974	The Committee, as I see it, has delivered a good opinion. Of course, it has also been an inspiring task. Within two of the framework areas, one has had a monthly increase after the budgetary conciliation, both in the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and in the Ministry of Culture’s budget. I'm very pleased that the cultural budget at the centre of its arrangement through the conciliation got the big addition it did. I think maybe we can say that a strong driver there was once Minister of Culture Anne Enger Lahnstein, so in a way one can see this as a dedicating gift from the former Minister of Culture of Culture of Norway. There is no bad part to deliver. It is very easy to refer to culture as something that will primarily create well-being and fellowship, and perhaps even, when it comes to children and young people, prevent crime. Of course, it's an important side effect, but it's not the main thing. Art has a self-esteem. Good art can do something fundamental with a human being and a society. New recognition, new trends can come on the basis of good art being produced. For example, the Holocaust is perhaps one of the greatest disasters in our history. Germany has thoughtfully referred to this in its curriculum at school. Yet, many studies showed that many children and young people did not believe in history. Then came the film "Schindler's List", and suddenly the whole picture changed when the gallant children and young people in Germany compared to the recognition of history. It was important in that context. It shows how good art can actually create new, important recognition. In a commercial society, children and young people need to meet art and culture. They also need the ability to participate, preferably in interaction between amateur and professional. The time we have now is full of children's participation, in Lucia celebrations, in Christmas shows at the schools, etc. In a good way, a combination of good value, where one acquires knowledge of own roots and our Christian culture, with great playfulness, can delight those who participate, and parents. Another example is the theatre and the debate on value. The ethical dilemma in relation to life and disability is taken up. The greatest success in Norwegian theaters in recent history seems simply to be a view of the Gospel of St. Mark. Art plays an important role in the social debate, if we leave the few possibilities. That is a good idea, then, what has come from the Minister of Culture on cultural schooling. But I have to say that I'm glad that the committee has materialized it, that it's culture that's going out to the kids, that comes out in the conciliation. Then one has to work further, and here I hope that the Minister of Culture will come back with more meat on his legs, how to actually use the institutions in relation to an interaction with the young and realize this. It's important to carry on in a good way. The NRK has been part of the debate today. Migration in the NRC is important, because the NRC is an essential cultural institution. Accuracy and quality must be the hallmark. Thus, district offices must be expanded in accordance with what is our Grandfather’s responsibility. I would also like to ask you a question about whether something should be sent down in time at the district offices, so that not everything should be like a nine hour. One can look at the quality there too, but having it locally and close, that's important. Then, of course, there's a need for conversion. There's a lot of challenges to tackle. I think the Committee has given ministers good help in developing not least cultural policy in a good way. Finally, a comment for a strange line here today. The representative Per Sandberg rightly went with the representative Molvær Grimstad to see what kind of conditions the Christian People's Party had to enter into the debate about children's relationships in families where parents had separated teams for some reason. There should only be a lack of a party's ability to enter into such a debate. I know that there is a blight of opinions and people in the Progress Party for the time being, but they are not allowed to start in any other party!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e995	The main objective of the Labour Party is to facilitate the growth of children and young people under safe and good conditions in Norway. Children’s families should have a safe economic and social situation, which also ensures full equality between women and men. Full child care coverage is absolutely necessary to achieve this objective. Kindergartens are important to ensure the integration of children from different ethnic minorities and children from different social groups. The aim of the Workers' Party shall be, inter alia, to: lower parental pay and – in the long term – a free core time in kindergartens. The size has joined a gradual increase in the country's share of the cost of kindergarten to 50 pst. The Labour Party believes that most children who are not at home with one of the parents will get the best offer in kindergartens with well-qualified workers. The government emphasises the need to stimulate schemes to increase contact between children and parents in dissolved families. This may include, inter alia: strengthen child protection, strengthen cooperation between child protection, kindergartens, children’s and young people’s psychiatry and school and health services. The professional judgement of child protection is one of the most complex tasks in the public sector, and we need to continue our efforts to improve the skills and knowledge of this service. Almost 40 pst. by all child protection institutions are private. Those institutions should have a closer follow-up to public child protection and the supervisory system of the county council. The county council has been given a clearer responsibility for the child protection institutions. A model for cooperation contracts has been drawn up between the institutions and the county municipalities. Only institutions which maintain the required professional standard will be used by child protection. This is a clear improvement, and the private and public institutions should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. In addition, the county should be better able to carry out its supervisory tasks. In 1999, only two of the posts met the requirement of supervision. All child protection institutions should have a form of official recognition, which should require the qualifications of employees, in the same way as in kindergartens and schools. Domestic violence is a strong growing problem, and it affects women. Half of all killings on women are committed by current or former partners. The ‘violence against women’ action plan shall prevent and combat this. It is important that new measures are strengthened, prioritised and implemented immediately. Unfortunately, non-Western women are recorded more often as victims of female abuse than Norwegian women. In crisis centres in the larger cities, there is an overrepresentation of women with a migrant background. They often have a lack of networks within the family, and special measures are needed to help these women. Children in crisis centres are also a group that requires special attention and it is necessary to follow it much more closely than is the case today. Children who are exposed to, or are witnesses to, violence are a particularly vulnerable group. These children themselves tend to be violent adults. It is unbearable that these children and their mothers run away to the crisis centers, while the fathers stay at home. The use of violence alarms for women should be much greater, and the police should give priority to such cases. Finally, I would like to point to another group of children who require our special attention, and that is the lonely, minor asylum seekers. The University of Telemark is monitoring how people who came here ten years ago have gone. Many of the children come from war zones and have been subjected to greater stress, some as child soldiers. ==References== 550 children are in reception and do not receive the treatment and follow-up they need. Their situation should be improved absolutely and foster homes can be a good alternative. New ways of recruiting foster homes should be considered in this context. The Children’s Act applies to all children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1014	With the fact that the Council of State to which the majority of my contributions are to be addressed is not present in the Chamber, I get a small recommendation to the Minister of Culture. I hope that the Minister for Culture will show greater responsibility over our cultural taxes than a majority in the Committee on Budgets has shown in this budgetary procedure. I've been to the question of the Avaldsnes and the large archaeological field lying unopened below the nose, and that someone has to take a state responsibility to secure, and get up and preserve the large cultural treasures that lie there. I am aware that it is at the intersection of culture and the environment, so my call to the Council of State will be to take an initiative against the Minister of Environment so that these cultural taxes can be secured. But it was in the first row of administration I was going to talk about in this debate, and it goes, of course, on modernising and improving the efficiency of the public sector. Because we have a precious government in Norway. We are administrated, over-controlled and have a state-level detailed regulation that consumes disproportionately large resources. Renewal of the public sector, less bureaucracy and more funding for the services and cultural services people demand, is an explicit goal for the vast majority, but the willingness to implement the necessary changes is not sufficiently present. The main challenge facing Norway in the coming years is to ensure sufficient labour force. We are entering a period when the needs for human resources in the health and care sector are increasing. We have an age structure of teaching staff that means that we need to recruit people to the school to ensure that children and young people have the quality education they need in modern society. At the same time, Norwegian business needs to have sufficient labour to provide value creation with the means to bear the increased costs that will be incurred. The ability to generate value must be made available by providing labour. In order to meet these challenges, it is necessary to slim down the part of the public sector that is currently engaged in tasks that are not perceived as important for most people, but which is the result of a regulator, a controller and a detailed management tool that has always characterized the Workers' Party and that has increasingly infected the Centre Parties. There is a lack of confidence in the community level, a lack of confidence in the individual's ability to make the right choices and a widespread fear that if the individual is given freedom of choice, it may choose anything other than what politicians want. Democracy is based on people's choices, but in today's Norway there is a political override that sets narrow limits on which choices people should have. The right considers that the conversion and efficiency of the public sector can strengthen local democracy and give individuals the opportunity to take greater responsibility for themselves and their own by choosing from a wider range of services that a competitive outsourcing of public services will provide. It will also release financial resources, which can be used to provide direct services to the population. In this budget, we have a merger of three budget chapters in the county area under the Ministry of Labour and Administration, and that is positive. That would allow for more efficiency, but unfortunately we don't see too much of it. It is still over-budgeted in relation to the tasks that the county should have. Among other things, we have ever fewer people working in agriculture, but the agricultural management of the county is huge. It's absolutely amazing that it's going to be necessary to have such a huge bureaucracy in the county to take care of our farmers. I actually think that our farmers are able to handle themselves. This also applies to the environmental protection department of the agricultural department. There is a total lack of confidence that the municipalities themselves can dispose of their land. That the state has to take care of it is contrary to the good thoughts that the Council of State was having in an answer to me earlier today. For a moment he actually sounded like a right-wing man, but then it's this Municipal Association and the LO-organized within the government. It looks like they're hanging around the neck of our council. I wish he could now be liberated, and that we get a slimmer and more efficient government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1031	I think I have to start my post by clarifying a misunderstanding. This is a statement in the post from the committee leader, and we also heard that the representative Trond Helleland was inside his post. It's about how the department and I look at PBL's role in the preparation of the new template that is now to be done, for cooperation agreements between private and municipal kindergartens. I have to say that I am directly unaware of the claims made by the committee leader. I have had a very, very close dialogue with the PBL in the time I have been the Council of State. There is also a meeting in the ministry today where this very topic is being discussed, and the PBL is naturally a natural participant in that work and at that meeting. I have to say that I do not fully understand what the representatives base their claims on, but at least I can assure the Storting that it was just not necessary that the PBL was not involved in that work. When it comes to having an impatience in relation to what is happening in this field, I think it is positive. I think it is good that Stortinget wants things to happen quickly when it comes to following up the message. We live in a time of great change. That is why it is important for the Government to develop policy measures, that these are anchored in the reality in which we live. This will lead to changes in the policy areas related to family, gender, child and youth policies and consumer policies in the coming period. The biggest challenge now facing me and the Government, the Stortinget and the municipalities is to find concrete measures that can ensure that 70,000 poor children living in Norway get a better daily life and the same quality of life as other children have. Children who are not allowed to participate over time in social settings such as birthdays, leisure activities, Christmas celebrations or holidays are cut off from important association with other children. We're probably going to have to say that the universal arrangements we have today don't seem to be enough. These measures must be targeted at the individual family. We've been working on a clearance to find out who's missing, who these 70,000 children are, so we can also come back with targeted action against this group. In addition to this, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health carries on a review of the social welfare system, in order, inter alia, to: shall pay greater attention to the costs of having children. But what we can say right now is that we need coordinated measures where the municipalities, the social services, the Aetat must coordinate efforts, so that they are the best for children and parents. The goal must be to change their life situation, not only to take action to keep their heads above water, but also to give them the opportunity of a completely different life, even in the longer term. Another major challenge we face is the kindergarten sector that many have faced. Here, Stortinget has just given its clear signal on how to follow it up. But it is with concern that we unfortunately see that the reports from Kommune-Norway are alarming. We know that there are many municipalities that do not have their own development plans. We also know that there are many municipalities that are struggling with long waiting lists, and we know that the municipality of Oslo is an example in this way. We also know that there are a number of municipalities that have removed the sibling's moderation, and in my home state of Møre and Romsdal we have seen that a municipality proposes to increase the parental payment by as much as 20 pst. until next year. There is no doubt that this is serious. I am concerned that we are going to launch the tools that Storting itself has asked for, and we are going to try to do so quickly. If not, of course, we have to get to the situation we see in Kommune-Norway and come back to it. But so far no one, and not the Right either, has come with stronger instruments per. the date of issue. As I have seen from the debate on the Right, the Right also believes that the tools we used in the communication, so far as is sufficient. Therefore, it is wrong to say that today's Right wants to go beyond what we do in terms of the concrete instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1046	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1049	The Minister for the Family ended his speech by touching an area where I would also challenge her. We have just dealt with the kindergarten announcement, and very much of the family policy of the Workers' Party is about kindergartens. Now we see around us, as the Minister for Family Affairs also pointed out, that the individual municipalities either put down kindergartens or increase parental pay. The ECG communication stated that State aid should be raised and that additional measures should be introduced. Despite this, we see closures and that the municipalities are increasing the parental payment. This, of course, is a consequence of the Workers' Party's general policy. Local authorities are given assignments and tasks and must give priority to the funding, and the nursery sector is deprived of priority. But there is something I intend to try to get the Minister of the Family to confirm. In the past year, both the Minister for Family Affairs and the Prime Minister have made several claims that the Party's child care policy will make kindergartens more expensive. Then my question becomes to the Minister for the Family: Can she provide documentation confirming this? If we say that the cost of a nursery place today is between 90,000 and 100,000 kroner, what will a nursery place cost with the Progress Party model? I think it's a little strange, because the situation is that the Progress Party spends more money on the kindergarten sector than the Workers' Party does. Then I think it is a little strange that the costs should be raised. My claim is the opposite. The result is now: the cost of kindergartens is rising. I think we, with the model of the Progress Party, would have made sure that they went down. So if I could get a confirmation of that, it would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1056	First, I would like to say that the Workers' Party has more on the agenda than just equality and kindergartens, and I put in my post a lot of emphasis on focusing on the poorest children. I think that's something we have to deal with in the time that's coming, is getting a boost for the weakest. It'll be a strenuous exercise. But unlike the Progress Party, we actually want to make targeted offers instead of buying us out of it by giving a check and then saying that we have made it. In fact, we want to target the measures, so that we are sure that we can provide help to those who actually need it. It's the exact same thing in kindergarten policy. It's well known, and it's not just the prime minister's or my business, it's actually a majority in the Grand Duchy who believe that the answers of the Progress Party in kindergarten policy are to give a check, and then you have to do as well as you can. We know the consequences. In addition, we heard very well documented what kind of answers the Progress Party will have in relation to its family policy. I've heard it before. But I have to ask: what are the answers of the Progress Party to the problems we experience as a society, compared to taking responsibility for our kids? Does the Progress Party really think that the solution is that one of the parents should go back to home and stay there? I think it is high time that the Progress Party gave an answer. Then one cannot say in the next round that one is very much for kindergartens, when one actually believes that care should be taken at home, and that it is quite wrong that parents should have the opportunity to participate in the work. Kindergartens are actually good for children. They're a good one. It's not that we want to put children in a difficult situation. That's why I think Per Sandberg took a lot of weight. I had hoped that he had nuanced his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1065	I know that the Minister for Children and Family has a strong commitment to kindergartens and getting everyone who needs it, kindergarten. That is why I was quite surprised at the answer that the Council of State has just sent to the committee on the question of when a cooperation agreement schedule with the private kindergartens will be ready. That's what I'm building my information on because the Council says they want to «establishing a working group to develop a supervisor... The working group is proposed to be composed of representatives from municipalities who have worked on this issue in the past. A reference group consisting of representatives from different stakeholder organisations has also been proposed.’;» So the private kindergartens will not be represented in the working group – according to what is written to the committee – but only municipalities that have worked on this issue before. I hope that the Council of State will take it offensively and see that it will be important to include, for example: PBL in this work. The Kinderhagen report was discussed in June of this year, and when the Ministry plans that the guide should be completed only in June 2001, it is thus an entire year after we deal with the Kinderhagen report. That seems to me to be too long in view of the challenges in the kindergarten sector. That is why I hope that the Council of State will address this in a positive way. A number of Committee members have also requested that this be reconsidered. When we dealt with the kindergarten message, it was also said that Stortinget should be informed in an appropriate way. If the department intends to complete the plan first during June 2001 and then orientate the Stortinget, it will take too much time for the kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1081	I ask the committee director to read the statement I made. It is directly wrong to say that we have thought that the PBL should not participate in the design of a model for equality between private and municipal kindergartens. I have to repeat that today at 4 p.m. 12 has been a meeting of the sample where the PBL has been a participant. It would be completely wrong if the committee leader went out and somehow tried to give another picture of this. I hope that we can put a dot for that, so that it ends here and now, and that we don't repeat and repeat just that exercise again. I also have a list of the participants who sit on the sample, which the committee leader can then get from me, and it can be explained quite clearly to the whole committee if they want to. When it comes to making progress in relation to the actual results, I have to say that we are working under full pressure in relation to presenting the various follow-up reports that the Stortinget has adopted in connection with the nursery service. I promise we'll do what we can. Once we're done, it'll be submitted to the Stortinget. But we can't do it overnight. I have to say that I think it is very OK that the committee leader is impatient in that very field. I can promise her that I will do what I can to present a result as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1091	I am pleased that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs is so committed to kindergartens, and the ongoing debate on this working group versus the reference group is far from interesting if it is such that the Minister for Family Affairs can promise that the private kindergartens will have full influence on the work being done. Because that's what's our point. Of course, if one is to draw up a model for the cooperation agreement between private kindergartens and municipalities, it is necessary for private kindergartens to have a hand on the steering wheel, that it is not the municipalities that dictate the conditions with the department. So I believe the councillor of her word, that she is positive to this, and then I hope that the department will follow up in the meetings that are, without the Council of State attending. As far as kindergarten policy is concerned, we agreed on the kindergarten message, and we are still. It's important that we get an increase in the state subsidy. But what is the problem is that the arrangement for the next year is, the Labour Party has said that now there may be a basis for the parental payment to go down. And I wonder if the Minister for Children and Family still thinks that the parental payment will go down. Based on the figures I have, and the figures to which the minister himself referred, there are now a number of municipalities that propose powerful additions, among others. My own municipality of Drammen, where it was proposed by the councilman 29 p.m. increase next year, while the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, which have a majority in the Drama, now went out with the glad tidings that it only becomes 10 pst. increase. That's too much, and what's going to be the point is that the Minister for Children and Family has before been involved, namely that there will be a further escalation of the state subsidy, in the long run also at the expense of the transfers to the municipalities, to get a price on kindergartens that will make everyone equal, regardless of where they live in the country and regardless of whether it is a private or municipal nursery. I hope that the Minister for Children and Family will continue to do so if it turns out that this increase in costs continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1100	I want to make sure again that the department and I have had a very close contact with the PBL at the time I have been the Council of State, and I also have an ambition to have it further. I can assure the committee that the interpretation here is directly wrong, there is no reason to believe anything else. With regard to the situation of kindergartens, there is no doubt that there is a problem. That's absolutely it. We have a national target, but at the same time, we may not have the strong means today that will enable us to secure what a majority in the UK would want. It's going to be a dilemma that we have in any political party. We all want to have increased state subsidies, up to 50 pst., with a parental payment of 20 pst. At the same time, however, we must first use the instruments mentioned in the regulation, a municipal extension obligation, a general law for kindergartens. If that's not good enough, we have to consider stronger lye. But so far there are no parties in Stortinget, with the exception of SV, who want stronger measures than we have. I want – and hope indeed – that the municipalities see the value of our bets on kindergartens, because I think cynically that the municipalities have a good idea of betting on kindergartens. If we're going to have enough labour in the future, we're totally dependent on having kindergartens so that we can give people a decent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1109	I am pleased that the Swedish Council of State gave SV credit for our willingness to use strong tools to get full child care coverage, and then I would say that the prescription is not on the right, but on the left. It is in the process of making use of individual children’s gardening rights and increasing State aid. I am sure the Council of State agrees with us that the liquidation of the cash support would provide opportunities for increased State aid. But it is also in the municipal economy. In a letter to us, the Ministry of Finance replied that the municipalities were missing NOK 1.3 billion in free income in order to pay their 30 p.m. share of operating expenses. Then I again challenge the government of the municipal economy. The municipalities have received more money, but they have also received more tasks, so they have less freedom to give money both to kindergarten and to culture. I am pleased that the Council of State is also concerned that we are now doing something obligatory in relation to the 70 000 children that were mentioned, and I share the reality description that she has given. She probably also heard what I said in my post. I have another challenge, and it's about violence against women. There has been a strong focus on violence against women, but I note that it is mainly about violence against women here in Norway. Compared to the international commitments we have made, we also have obligations to help women who are subjected to violence elsewhere. It is true that several women flee to Norway because of gender-based persecution. The refugees from rape, the refugees from forced marriage and the refugees from other violent conditions. And then we have to do something about it. What does the Minister for Gender Equality intend to do with the situation that almost no one is allowed to stay? I hope she gets involved in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1120	With regard to the budget we have presented to the kindergarten sector, it is the first time in some years that we have managed to provide so much money. In fact, both the Norwegian Teachers' Team and the PBL have given us credit for this, and they have actually been satisfied with what we have presented. In this sector there will always be a great need for a better economy. But we have started an escalating plan here, and Stortinget agrees with the escalation plan we have set. Through the budget we have now proposed, we have been able to make an increase, but of course we have to follow up on this objective consciously. With regard to the last question that Mr. Ågot Valle asked, in relation to violence against women, I can say that there is a field where the entire government is concerned. I can also say that both the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Justice are following this particular issue very closely. So we'll get back to it, but it's also within other departments than ours. But I can promise that there will be one thing that we should not forget in our department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1127	Now I know the Council of State as a very eager politician, and very eager to debate about the Progress Party and family policy, but I had hoped that the Council of State had evolved after moving from the Committee and into the government building, so that it was possible to get an answer to what one asked for. My fundamental question in the first line was whether the Council of State could document its claims and those of the Prime Minister that kindergartens would be more expensive with the model of the Progress Party. When you can say something like that to the Norwegian people, I think it must also be in place to ask that someone document it. Because that is a claim that we do not agree with. I also see that the statistical central agency and other organisations are not involved in that accounting either. If one introduces some competition, that parents are allowed to choose for themselves, etc., we'll probably get cheaper kindergartens. So if I could get an answer to that, I would be very satisfied. Clearly, we agree with the Council of State that kindergartens are good — of course. That's also why 70 pst. by parents want kindergarten, but we want them to choose it according to their own needs and not according to a goal of having all children in kindergarten. We want freedom of choice for parents. The representative of Greece also addressed this, but I would like to go a little further and challenge the Council of State in relation to the promises of all parents who want to make use of kindergartens. Can the Council of State guarantee to all these parents that kindergartens will be cheaper with the Labour Party system in the future? Is there any guarantee that this will happen? And back to the negative comment of the Council of State on our family policy: yes, we disagree on family policy. We stand for the one who will be in the future, the Workers' Party stands for the one they have provided, and still stands for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1138	I have to say that there is not a complete connection in what Per Sandberg's representative says. In the first post he made today, he focused very much on the problems that the families had, and the reason for that was that we somehow forced children into the public custody institutions instead of the parents themselves taking care of them. Now the representative says Per Sandberg that kindergartens are good and positive. Then I have to put this question back: What does the Progress Party really mean? If the parents had had a real choice, the Progress Party says, the parents would have chosen to be home. Then I would like to ask: Does that mean that the Progress Party will now go in for a normal salary and give an amount of e.g. NOK 200000 for the parent who chooses to be at home, so that they get the opportunity that Per Sandberg's representative called for instead? With regard to what Per Sandberg says in relation to documentation of the consequences of their kindergarten policy, I do not give Per Sandberg the answer he wants to hear. I mean, and there are a lot of people doing in this room, that if we follow the solutions of the Progress Party on kindergartens, we don't want actors building kindergartens. Kindergartens are not built by themselves, and we need to have some tools that make public and private kindergartens take responsibility for expanding an offer in the future. We can give you a cash amount, but we know that it won't be enough. And we've actually seen an example of that after we got the cash support. What happened then, in fact, was that some kindergartens weren't, some were allowed to build up their kindergartens as they had previously thought, precisely because of uncertainty about the introduction of such a cash transfer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1145	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1148	The budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party increased the budgets of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. This increase enables us to strengthen some priority areas in addition to the efforts made in the Government's budget proposals, which were characterised by a strong commitment to Community solutions. It is worrying that despite the decline in the unemployment rate in the population, people with a minority ethnic background experience serious problems in the labour market. Unemployment among some of these groups is between 15 and 20 pst. The paradox in this is that many of those in this unemployment line have higher education from Norwegian universities and colleges. In view of the great need we have for labour and competence, it is a great cross-estimate that working life does not value the skills that many people with ethnic minority backgrounds actually have. In my opinion, this is the waste of human resources. Having said that, I am pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Administration in its draft budget proposes to increase efforts to mobilise labour resources among those with ethnic minority backgrounds. Locally, a separate action plan for the long-term unemployed will be developed in this group. From the Workers' Party's side, we will stress the importance of this. A very positive feature of the Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs budget is the strengthening of the allocation of children’s and young people’s activities. For the Workers' Party, the overall objective is to ensure good growth and living conditions for all children and young people, regardless of gender, geography or ethnic background. We need to ensure that our children and young people have equal opportunities for participation. This is important, for example: because problems such as violence, bullying, crime, HIV and child racism have increased and are increasing. This worries us all, I think. Therefore, the focus on children and young people is very important. In addition, the Government has strengthened the allocation of voluntary child and youth work, which could also help to prevent the issues I was just discussing. Voluntary children’s and youth organisations do important work and are central to strengthening, among other things. participation and influence of children and young people in society. Efforts at locally voluntary child and youth work are very important for the democratic construction of young people from all walks of life, urban and districts. It is particularly important at a time when we see that young people choose less to engage in voluntary work and youth organisations. Preventing discrimination and including all groups of children and young people must be central to ensuring equal opportunities for all children and young people. Special attention needs to be paid to individual groups of children and young people. The Party shall, as a general rule, stand on the side-line with its resistance to the use of Community solutions. In its comments, the Progress Party points out that prevention of children and young people’s growing-up conditions needs to be put in place more effectively at an earlier stage, preferably at home and in the family level. My interpretation of this is that the education of the children is only the responsibility of the parents. The Labour Party is in no doubt that most parents in Norway are making a fantastic effort in the mission of their children. But for the Workers' Party, it's important to have someone who can help even in cases where the family doesn't stretch to. I hope the Progress Party will once make an account of the costs of ‘repair’ children and young people who are outside the ideal family of the Progress Party. It's the group that's out there, that needs the public offer. That's why the Workers' Party wants to strengthen public care – not take it away, as the Advance Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1165	Now I know that my colleagues in the committee are afraid that I will make a flaming contribution on the Kröderbanen. But after I came back to my office in the morning and discovered that someone had put up a note on the door saying ‘Here lives Krøder-Larsen’, I even understand that I have probably been told about that matter in the budget procedure. And when that's said, I can't give the Creep Justice in an post in just five minutes. The Labour Party has decided at its national meeting on a strong commitment to culture in the coming years. Therefore, with the limited time available, I would like to comment on some of the comments that, in my opinion, point beyond the next year's budget. There are three areas I would like to comment on: one is the bookhouse and blueshouse on Notodden, the other is the Momentum Art Biennial in Moss, and the third is the position of dance as its own art start. Over the past 12 years, an extensive business has been built around the Blues Festival in Notodden. This blues festival is a good and inspiring example of the successful use of culture in the transformation of a community. As you know, the Notodden community was faced with major challenges in the construction of the ironworks industry and the commitment of Norsk Hydro up there. A note by an overall committee acknowledges the importance that the Notodden Blues Festival has gradually received, both nationally and internationally. Should the blues-related business in the Notodden continue to develop, promoters believe that you need your own house. This is why the idea of a separate book and blues house has been launched at Notodden. This is a project that is strongly anchored both by local authorities and by local businesses. The Committee asks the Government to consider returning proposals for funding because the Committee sees that the realisation of this project will consolidate the position of Notodden as the blue capital of Norway. Yes, it's actually so that the realization of this project could make the Notodden the centre of Europe for this musical form. Last summer, the Momentum Art Festival in Moss was arranged for the second time. This festival is unique in the sense that it is the only festival that presents contemporary Norwegian art. Due to its qualities, the festival has attracted a lot of positive publicity in artistic settings in the home and abroad. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the situation of the free dance groups in this country. Many believe that this art form has not received the attention it deserves. Yes, some even say that the dance has been voiced. The problems facing these dance groups relate to the economy for operation, but also to the fact that they do not have their own permanent facilities — a dance house — available. I am therefore pleased that the Committee – with the exception of the Progress Party – is asking the Government to assess the situation of these free groups in the context of the 2002 State Budget. Each represents the three projects I have mentioned here, very different cultural expressions, and this shows the breadth of the cultural effort the Workers' Party wants in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1184	Recently, I saw a modern version of Henrik Ibsen's Peer Gynt at Trøndelag Teater. Our national epic is playing out this time – literally – at a crossroads. In the final scene, Solveig and Peer sit as two disillusioned figures in the Bukkerite experience centre in Norway. The show asks the following questions: Is the cultural heritage being reduced to a market place offering? In many different contexts in the world today, the concern for cultural heritage is expressed. In the light of globalisation, not least the small cultures and linguistic areas are strongly challenged. I am therefore pleased that there is a broad political consensus in this Chamber on the need to raise the issue of culture. In a tight state budget, we presented a cultural budget with growth. Through the budget negotiations in the Stortinget between the Workers' Party and the Centre, the cultural budget increased by nearly 70 million. kr. I will allow myself to commend the Committee on Budgetary Control for the work it has done. A lot of people say we're going into the storytellers' time. An important task of cultural policy is to ensure that we in Norway get rich access to stories from our own reality in our own language, in the book, in the theatre scene and in cinema. The processing of the ABM message alerts a raise for our libraries, museums and archives. I am also very pleased that the Stortinget has now given its support to the modernisation and renewal proposed by the Government for the film sector. The year 2001 will be the start of a new era for the Norwegian film industry. If there's somewhere we're really challenged by market forces, it's in the media field. It is more important than ever to pursue an active and targeted policy that can ensure diversity and quality. In almost all Norwegian homes there is a radio and a television set. One of the main media policy challenges is to secure the position of public broadcasters. I do not hesitate to say that the NRK has been the main cultural intermediary in the construction of modern Norway. But now the NRK is going to the counterground. I have humility towards the formidable reverse operation of the board of directors and employees of the NRK. Our task is to clarify what we want with the NRK, and what is needed to achieve the goals. My strong wish is that the generations of the future will also enjoy a strong NRK both with district broadcasts and with everything from the childhood of the smallest and serious news programmes to Norwegian film and drama on the screen. The size has rounded up the main lines for the treatment of national advertising-funded television concessions. There is broad agreement on the call, on content and economic requirements and on location in Bergen. I take note of the majority's assumption that a fee should be charged, but not by auction. I will of course base this on the further handling of the matter by the Ministry of Culture. We Northmen are world champions in newspaper reading. The local paper is one of our most important supports. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinge joins our proposal for increased press support. But even more important is the broad consensus to continue the zero rate of VAT for newspapers. There has been a discussion of the proposed cultural school bag. The aim is to provide all schoolchildren throughout the country with an offer of living art and culture, as many children have already had. I know that artists and cultural workers throughout the country are now looking forward to filling the bag with concrete content. In the year ahead, we have a number of important issues in the Ministry of Culture, on which time does not allow me to go into detail. We must strengthen both the cultural institutions and the condition of free artists. And, of course, the cultural sector must also be subject to renewal and modernisation. The opera house project in Bjørvika will have a high priority. I want to focus on tight budgetary management and to keep progress, with a view to bringing the matter before the European Parliament in spring 2002, together with the national production and dissemination plan for opera and ballet in Norway. We're also going to work on the Scene Art Committee's investigation, on a review of the orchestral field, and on the big, pervasive cultural message. We are also pleased to address coordination and increased efforts in the area of public space, architecture and design. And at least we've noticed the committee's expressed desire for progress in the follow-up to the ABM message. We are a young nation, a small nation and a rich nation. Not all aspects of social development are equally uplifting. Go outside, says the Bow – to go back to Peer Gynt. Henrik Ibsen warns us not to be ourselves enough. We can use culture to find out the best in us, as individuals and as communities. That's why the government wants to bet on culture. That's why we want to prepare Culture Norway for our 100th anniversary as an independent nation. The Norway of opportunity lies in culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1227	Now comes another Per instead of Peer Gynt. It can be exciting to listen to that Per too! We noticed that the Council of State said there was a television in every home. That's right. But what the council didn't say, was that this was a tax and tax-device, which the individual had to pay to have. Enough about that. There are, of course, some points in which the Progress Party does not agree with the Council of State, and some of which we can agree in part. Some of what I want to say a little about is, among other things, the purchasing system for our libraries. 55 million. Norway spends every year purchasing literature, which is then distributed to the individual libraries — often to the disillusionment of the librarian, who has to accept the books and pay tribute, and there they remain. Can the Council of State be willing to look at this scheme, so that the individual library gets this money and can itself purchase books that they know they can borrow? The next point concerns the TV 2 concession, which has been a lot in the media lately. We have seen that the Workers' Party and perhaps – I might stress – also the Council of State has turned around on this with the auction principle. I would like to hear a few words about the auctioning principle. So a little bit about the opera – which was also in the Council of State – that she wants to follow closely, and which is going to have a high priority. I want to ask a very specific question: how much, in dollars and ears, does the Council of State think a new opera building is worth? A little bit about NRK: I saw from the online newspaper yesterday that Förde might have a slightly different vision than some others. He says, ‘In most countries with similar licensing systems as ours, the duration of this tax’ — I stress the tax — ‘may be maintained. It is therefore important that the NRK also discuss this and plan a future in which there is no 100 per cent dependent on a licence fee.’ And he said, ‘And I’m still not sure whether political statutes are the best way for a media organisation to survive in the future.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1250	I record that Bredvold is opposed to the purchasing arrangements in the literature field, like a number of other support schemes for our artists. The purchasing system is currently being evaluated by the Council of Culture, and I cannot at any time go in any way to get away from the current system, which means that our libraries have a rich access to everything that is written in Norwegian today. Internationally, we are getting a great deal of fame for these arrangements. With regard to TV 2, I have said in my post that we take note of the majority in the committee. For us, it has been important to have programme requirements and to get a fee. The way the money is to be taken in is of less importance to us. There were questions about the opera. I said in my post that I will follow closely on the cost side and manage the project rigorously, and of course I can't tell you what the budget is going to end up on, but I'm sure we'll control this in a strong and tight and good way, and that we'll get an opera that we can be proud of. As far as the license was concerned, I am aware that the Progress Party would have preferred to see all of our channels run by private funding. Of course, I disagree with the Advancement Party in this field, and I refer to what I said in my post, that I believe it is a great public task to make sure that the NRK has real opportunities to stand free in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1261	There is no doubt that the Minister of Culture has a strong and burning commitment to culture and all the possibilities within that sector. That's why we couldn't help but notice the Council of State saying that she hoped that the centre party would get a chance for more money for culture. That's what we got, so now we can jointly enjoy more means of culture. The cultural school bag was the Council of State inside its post. The government will give all children such a backpack: ‘It shall include meetings with live music and theatres — meetings with past and present in the local community.’ But what we're experiencing is that the bag is not filled with this, the bag is filled with paper, because the department suggests that these funds that have entered the budget should be used for, is an idea and information catalogue that should be available at all primary schools at the start of the school year in 2001. Fifteen million. kr was originally intended to go for this purpose. Does the Council of State think it would be necessary to spend so much money just for information? If one had re-prioritized these funds and filled them with content, one could, for example, have removed the entire queue of the Rikskonsertan school concerts and other actions targeting children and young people. Now we have five million. These funds have been specifically allocated to measures for children and young people, and that is positive, but what further is the Council of State thinking about this, after they have obtained information material, in relation to starting up new things — based on the needs we already have in many sectors, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. National concerts and school concerts where does not everyone get what they want today? Will the government follow up giving the school bag a content, or does it have other plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1273	I am happy to have this opportunity to state that my intention has never been to spend 15 million. on information material related to the cultural school bag. I have noticed the various committee comments on the proposal to grant the cultural school bag. The notes raise questions about the need for specific organisation and action towards the target audience concerned, assuming that established actors in the cultural field and the school community will be able to perform these tasks. But at the same time, I have noticed with satisfaction that there is a broad political consensus on the importance of communicating art and culture to children and young people, and that is, of course, my goal and that of the Government. I am convinced that we should be able to fill the bag with real content. We will immediately start planning an Idea Conference, and we will coordinate as soon as possible the activities that already exist and make use of existing arrangements. I'm also pleased with the addition that came to the national concert arrangements, it's an excellent ingredient in a cultural backpack that I'm sure will be enriching to our growing family in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1278	I would like to commend the Minister of Culture for his commitment and for his expressed hope that it will be a boost to culture. I also want and hope that there can be a greater impact for the Minister of Culture. I'm sure she's fighting for these issues within the government. It is a tight budget that was put forward, and the Council of State concluded its contribution by pointing out that we will also mark the 100th anniversary of Norway as a nation until 2005, and it is in the proposition that the Norwegian Yearly Society 2000 will now become Norway in 2005 AS from 1 January next year. What I would like to draw attention to is an answer that the Ministry has given to questions from the Committee, about the use of the money earmarked and within the undertaking authority of the Norwegian-Norway 2000 AS, which is thus changing its name now. It says here that it is a tight budget. So the government has decided to take $15 million. kr to the thousand-year-olds of the counties – and to the extent justified. In a tight manner, I will understand that. But what I don't think it's coverage for is when it says that there was no ‘prerequisites that the Millennium Change Norway 2000 AS cannot contribute to the financing of the thousand-year-olds in the counties’. I believe this is wrong. I have gone back and seen both in the proposition, in the setting and in the debate, and I believe that the projects in the company are outside the thousands of years. I want to give the Council the opportunity to correct what I see as a misunderstanding. I also want to give the Council of State the opportunity to respond to whether she does not see the need to return to the revised national budget with money to Norway in 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1289	Let me first thank you for nice words from the center. I am convinced that we are going to be able to achieve a rise by 2005, based on the priority given to cultural issues in most of the groups here at Stortinget. Anne Enger Lahnstein asks about the use of the funds for the Twentieth Year Company. So in the thousand-year-old company's 2000 budget proposal, that includes 11 million. DKK to thousands of years in the counties. The Ministry has found it right to give priority to the thousand-year-olds in the counties something stronger than the thousand-year-old company itself provided, by proposing an additional 4 million. NOK – a total of 15 million. kr for the purpose. And as far as I have been able to gain experience, this has not been found to be contrary to any assumptions of the Storting. Thus, both the company’s board of directors and the department believe that the funds for county offices are within the scope and tasks of the company. This is an expression of the fact that the establishment of thousands of years in the counties must take precedence over the desire for action by the company in other areas, where the wealth of ideas and creativity has been great. When the conditions for granting State grants are met, we aim to ensure that all thousand-year-olds in the counties and Sami thousand-year-olds will be realised until 2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1298	The Minister of Culture seems almost indifferent to the fact that the Stortinget has rejected the auctioning principle relating to the new concession for nationwide commercial broadcasting. I'm very happy that a broad majority has now gone away from this. Nevertheless, I am left with a question that I have not received an answer to, and it is: What cultural policy distributions were made in the Ministry when the auction principle was chosen? It may be useful for the Committee and the European Parliament to know what assessments were made in the Ministry of Culture relating to this new way of raising funds in the cultural sector, or in the media sector. The Minister of Culture himself just said that it was not the market forces that were supposed to govern the media field exclusively; we need public broadcasters. The right-hand side actually agrees with this. We went out early and said no to the auctioning principle, precisely because this is primarily a cultural policy issue in which we talk about Norwegian language and cultural identity. Then it surprises me very much that the Ministry of Culture – the Minister of Culture – launched a model that Stortinget rejected in ours, namely the auction model. I'm very interested in hearing what cultural policy assessments were based on, because if we get these on the table, we might be able to discuss this on a later occasion. Or is it that the auctioning principle is now left too well in the cultural sector? So to NRK, the council said the NRK had to stand free, and then through the license income. But at the same time, we see that more and more people here in the house and, in part, the Council of State – she has the opportunity to do so as a general assembly – are trying to influence the NRK process in terms of the number of district offices, in terms of foreign networks, etc. How free is the NRK, and how free should it be in the opinion of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1309	As far as the auctioning principle is concerned, I will try to clarify what was underlying the Ministry's thinking. For us, two aspects of the concession award were significant. The first and most crucial was the content, the programme requirements themselves, which we wanted to reinforce – because we are not entirely satisfied with the proportion of Norwegian programmes, for example, in the current TV2. The point is that we should have better programming and stronger programming conditions, we would take money, and the call should be real – as a result of the ESA rules. We thought it was a real matter to first set up our clear programme requirements – which are very strict, they have been commented on by several of the actors who might be too strict – and then take a round on it, and then have an auction in the next round. And given that you had an equivalent program offer, who would pay the most for the concession so that we got optimal benefits to the community? This was the thinking behind it. We wanted more Sami programs, we wanted more children's programs, and we wanted to have more neural links to the new concession call. As far as the NRK is concerned, I'm very concerned to respect that the NRK is now an AS, where the board has a sovereign right to make its arrangements to balance. That doesn't mean that I don't think we have a general responsibility to ensure that the social interests are taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1318	The Council of State said quite correctly that Norway's potential lies in culture. That is also why, in our draft budget, we are proposing 300 million. kr extra for art and culture. I remember what I said, it's really just a little bit of money. That's exactly what the Council of State said, that there's a common understanding that art and culture need an extra boost. Then I have to say that I'm worried when the Council of State describes the Government's proposal for framework area 3 – the cultural budget – as a strengthening, because the programme category of cultural purposes had a cut-off, if one also looks at the price rise. A proposal has been made by the Committee on Culture, which the Labour Party put down, to increase the share of art and culture in the State budget to 1 pst. by 2005 at the latest. We presented the same proposal last year, and we are also presenting it this year. I believe the Council of State that it is possible to make that promise, if not the Council of State has the Storting behind it in an obliging objective of reaching 1 pst.? Will not the budget always be so tight that it does not allow bets on art and culture? Then the councils were concerned with the free arts. I would then like to develop an area that could perhaps strengthen the free arts, namely the decoration scheme for municipal and municipal buildings. The working party was together with the Right concerned with increasing the allocation of this scheme last year, precisely because it gives artists the opportunity to live around the country. [[The President clubs.]] Then I'd like to ask, what has happened, when not the Workers' Party is now willing to join in raising this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1330	Of course, I read the budget setting with great interest. In almost all entries, it was cut from the Progress Party and additions from SV. But it's a tight reality, and I stand firm that there was some growth in the budget that we put forward. I even had a cheese and a cheese needs when I presented the budget, because I said we had to give a tight priority – lift up some fields and keep others quiet more. That doesn't mean that the government and I don't take seriously what we've just said, that we're going to make a powerful and visible boost for culture and culture Norway until 2005. I feel convinced that there is also a will in this room to get this through. With regard to the arrangement for the decoration of municipal buildings, I am pleased to note the broad outline given to the decorating scheme in the budget position. I have decided that of the remaining resources available in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the current year, 800000 kroner will be used to strengthen the scheme for the decoration of municipal and county buildings. The Ministry will discuss the further follow-up of the decoration scheme with the management of the fund. I would also like to place great emphasis on this when the 2002 draft budget is to be drawn up in the context of public space, architecture and design.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1338	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1343	Agreements must be held in order to create credibility between the parties to the agreement. This is also the case with the Stortingen’s clear agreement with the NRK for the 1995 and 1996 years. As a result, the Storting increased the licenses by a total of 75 kroner to cover increased operating costs, but not least because local TV broadcasts were to be developed in Nordland and Østfold. It is not credible when one party, in this case the management of the NRK, only partially fulfils the agreement, since we have today built up facilities for TV broadcasts both in Bodø and in Fredrikstad, while the broadcasts have been repeatedly exposed – four or five times. Now the transmissions have to get started. Patience is too much used up in these two places. I am pleased that the majority of the committee, the representatives of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, now support the organisation of local TV broadcasts at these two sites on the basis of the previously clear assumption. This is the same majority that in its time gave the licenses. So the size has not changed vision. Now it is important that the NRK fulfill its part of the agreement immediately. I also expect the Minister of Culture to continue this work. It does not help, however, that Østfold has received a signal from the NRK that they should be able to break up today's TV4 broadcast by moving the station from Skien to Fredrikstad. Such a change would weaken the offer, especially in the central eastern region. In other words, an agreement is an agreement and must be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1352	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties shows that good solutions can be found in the Stortinget. The government provided a government budget which limited private sector growth to allow for increased involvement in joint schemes. It was a good working party budget, a good social democratic budget. This profile is still there. The working party had to give and take, the center had to give and take, before we found a solution that is good, and where the entire profile of the government is present. So I'll end up completely until the previous speaker said in his post. The NRK is an institution that has a special position in relation to other media, whether it is TV channels, radio or newspapers. The NRK is going to make TV and radio that has to compete for listeners and viewers with other commercial actors, but they have to be something more. The NRK is a cultural institution responsible for ensuring that our language is respected, that Norwegian culture is maintained, and that news comes out to the whole country. This means that even though the NRK is a corporation, they cannot do exactly what falls into them all the time, they have a special responsibility. Then it's very disappointing when the NRK is now trying to jump from decisions and promises regarding the development of district television. After having received an increase in the licence to do this job, they cannot implement the plans with their credibility. Of course, I have a certain understanding that when the NRK has come into a difficult situation, it is not easy to initiate new measures, but I have a feeling that what is happening is that the districts are now getting dizzy of exceedances that have largely occurred at the central level. Nordland is one of the states that has not received their own TV broadcasts, despite the fact that it has been intended that such broadcasts should be launched. Obviously, the NRK itself believes that there is enough one shipment for North Norway, crashed and made from one place in the region. This shows little insight into geography and little insight into the situation. It's far from Vardø to Brønnøysund, and I don't think everyone in Northland is experiencing that news that is being prioritised from Troms is the same news that is most relevant to them at any time. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee is committed to previous opinions on the launch of broadcasts from Eastfold and Northland, and I assume that this will be followed up. I also assume that this is the last time the Storting says something about this matter, and that we are now getting properly cleaned up. At the same time, it is disappointing that there is no full support for the majority's position. I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a different position. It cannot mean anything other than that they give priority to something other than the majority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1365	Quite at the bottom of the debate – otherwise a broad debate that has covered a lot – I want to say something about a few areas. This applies primarily to the University of Eastfold. It is gratifying that both the Church, Education and Research Committee and this committee in their settings have said something about the problems of expanding our colleges. An overall increase is well in line with the fact that very few — if any — funds have been made available for such expansions in the last few years, that the problems are gradually emerging, and that something has to happen soon. For this reason, the KUF Committee also calls on the Government to ensure that the design can continue in terms of co-location and new construction of the Østfold and Stavanger colleges. The University of Eastfold will have completed its sketch project at the turn of the year and will be ready to take on the pre-project in the new year, so that it can be completed by summer. As confirmed by the Church and Education Councils here several times in the Questionnaire, and now by a unanimous family, cultural and administrative committee, it is the University of Eastfold that has first priority in the field of higher education, and the College of Stavanger has second priority. I therefore assume that there is room on the Statsbyk budget for appropriations for the design of both of these projects in the year to come, so that the planning does not stop for anyone. I have also noticed the positive review that the Momentum contemporary art festival in Moss has received in the vote of a majority, with the exception of the Progress Party. This majority has recorded that Momentum needs financial support and asks the Government to assess this in relation to the 2002 State budget. That's good. That Momentum needs support is, to the most extent, correct. Without state support, it will be very difficult to continue this successful event. It is therefore hoped that Momentum will be able to enter the State budget in line with other similar events in 2002. Finally, I must say that I am very pleased that a majority in the Committee now believes that they cannot go back on previous assumptions that their own television broadcasts should be launched in Eastfold and Northland. I support the two previous speakers, who have gone deep into it, and I fully agree with what they have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1380	I will first, at the end of the debate, say a little about this with a cooperation template between the private kindergartens and the municipality. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs said that we misinterpret their answers. I would just like to point out that we are familiar with a letter sent by the Landsförbund of Private Barnehagers to the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs on 20 November 2000, on the work process for drawing up the schedule for the operating agreement between private kindergartens and municipalities. Here are the following: ‘The National Association of Private Barnehages finds the form of work that the Ministry has chosen problematically for us as an organisation, and does not feel that this is in line with the position of the Family Culture and Administrative Committee.’ So there's a bunch of people here who have the same view of this as we do of this. But I interpret the council so that they have close and good contact with the PBL, and that the PBL will be involved in the further work, so that we get a good result in the end. So a little explanation of vote: when it comes to proposals from the Right on the AFP scheme, proposal No. 4 in the setting, to reduce speech time, I will only make note of the comment we have in the setting. In the case of proposal No: 8, from the Progress Party, on the extension of cash support, the Christian People's Party, together with the other central parties, has become certain that it will be like today for three years, so we're not voting for the proposal for an additional extension of it now. We are also waiting for an evaluation of it. In the case of SV's proposal No. 10, which is elected to women, I will also refer to the remarks in the position and to the exposure in this area. SV's proposal No. 11 to evaluate the changes that have been made in relation to giving fathers the independent right to raise birth money, I kind of have a little sense of. The Christian People's Party wanted to go further than the Labour Party in the matter when it was last treated. SV went even further. But I'm asking SV to turn it into a transmission proposal, and then the government will evaluate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1398	The people of the north, the people of the north, or the people of the north, are culturally, colorful peoples. This is especially our language – or more precisely: the dialect – many experience flourishing. Culture is important for the Nordics. ‘Sculpture landscape Northernland’ is an example of this, ‘Oluf’ is another example. The northern people are the people from the north, from Bindal in the south to Grense-Jakobsev in the north. We are a liberal people's race that wants most people to be welcomed – including throngers and Easterners. I say this as a reference to the debate that has been going on and that is going on, especially in the Nordic press, but also in the press more south of the country, and that has gradually become a form of cultural debate. When we welcome most of us who live in the ‘land of the north’, those who come north must not contribute to the creation of new fences or fences for who will be allowed to be a northerner. Northern residents are those who live in or who are in and from ‘the country of the north’. I would like and need to comment on two aspects in the setting. I am pleased with the positive review given to the Hamsun Centre. However, I would like there to be room within the agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party to grant some funds to follow up the plans that exist. But with the overall positive attitude that the Committee refers to an international Hamsun centre in Hamarøy, I am reasonably optimistic about the next round, where action must be allowed to follow words. The second case has also been mentioned before. NRK district broadcasts on television. I fully agree with the representative of Enger Lahnstein in his statement on this matter. If I were to venture to polemise a moment against the representative Enger Lahnstein, it would have to be said that the considerations she expressed in her contribution, she should also have marked to the NRK in her time as Minister of Culture. This would have contributed to the clarification we are making today, we would have received at a much earlier time. But that's history. I am pleased and I agree with the majority comment in the vote – the whole comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1411	In a good spirit of distribution, the Labour Party has distributed its speaking time by 5 minutes on each of its eight speakers. That also means I, as a fractional leader, only had 5 minutes. Therefore, I allow myself a short comment at the end. First of all, I would say that the debate has been less chaotic than I thought it would be when we were going to deal with three such different areas, and I hope that everyone is thick. But that's one thing that I want to clarify in the end. It applies to this renewal work. Although there is not a joint remark on renewal, I would say that both the comments of the individual parties and the debate today show that the Government has great support for its renewal work. On the right-hand side, they say it's too small, and on the left-hand side, they say that one has to be careful, and when there are concrete proposals, it's easy to say stop. But I think it's clearly a plurality in this room that will be able to support proposals that come from a balance artist like Jørgen Kosmo. So to NRK-saka. We agree that we take up a note from the past, where we argued that Nordland and Østfold would also have their own broadcasts. A number, minus the Progress Party and the Right, also say that if there are major changes within the NRC, it must be dealt with politically. For us in the Labour Party, it is primarily about the General Assembly, and then the General Assembly gets to consider whether it is so extensive that it should go to the Stortinget. I think that both the comments and not least the post of the representative, Enger Lahnstein, are relatively eye-catching. She goes very far, says yes, the NRK shall have freedom, but they shall not be allowed to touch the district offices. It is known that the NRK should be reduced by 300 settings for the first time, the next round is about 1000 settings. But district offices should not be moved. On the contrary, they should increase their efforts with regard to district offices. Then I have to ask: does it mean that we should have more money and more people at the district offices, and that there should be even more restrictions when it comes to the rest? Does Anne Enger Lahnstein mean it that specifically? If it is so concrete first, is the second absolute requirement it will make in connection with this conversion? I have to say that I think that the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, as former Minister of Culture, is crossing the border with regard to what I think it is reasonable for us to instruct the NRK, but she may be able to handle it if she wants it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1428	When I take advantage of the possibility of a three-minute post on the back of the debate, it is because so many of the representatives have raised the issue of district television in Eastfold and Northland. State ownership allows political governance to achieve key social policy objectives. I would say that we have both a right and an obligation to say from if the operation in the NRC is contrary to the interests of society. In the future, the NRC will also provide a good public broadcasting service to the whole country. Although, as I said, I believe that we must be very cautious and have humility for the critical situation in which the NRC is now in, and that we must never interfere unnecessarily unless the activities are genuinely contrary to the interests of society, I agree with the majority of the committee when it is stated that if the NRC will make significant changes to the district structure, this will have to be presented as a proposal at the general meeting and thus be subject to political discussion. In the case of Eastfold and Northland, I will refer to the assumptions of the Committee majority. I'm of course assuming that the NRK will follow these assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1437	I want to follow up on what the Council of State now said in its last post, that you should not be unnecessarily involved in the arrangements that the NRK is making. There, of course, I support the Council of State. At the same time, however, it is important to be aware that when the NRK is applying to Stortinget to increase the licence fees under given conditions, among other things. that district missions should be strengthened and not weakened, we take for granted that the Council of State uses its power to ensure that this is exactly what is happening. There is a lot today that speaks for the fact that those assumptions are not being fulfilled by the NRK. Rural service relocations around the country that build up something in one place – in this case two, Nordland and Østfold, which, of course, I support, like Odd Holten – do not help when the activities of other district offices are significantly shut down. It is not a strengthening of the general district offer. In the case of NRK Telemark, which has built up competence on both the television and radio sides over a long period of time, it is expected that this will now become an under-use in the eastern part of the country and a very clear weakening of the NRK's offer. If the Council of State takes advantage of the possibility of another three-minute post at the end, I might imagine to challenge her if she thinks that it is in line with the assumptions of the Storting, when you build one place by laying down or reducing quite dramatically elsewhere, such as. the case is in Telemark. I wish the Council of State could give some views on what is now going on, among other things. at Borgeåsen in Porsgrön and at NRK Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1446	I think the response of the Council of State to the posts that have been held so far on the district office situation in the country, especially in Eastfold and Northland, was very good and clarifying. It is and shall be such that the governing bodies of the NRK shall have a significant room for their own action and governance and responsibility for their own activities. But that does not mean, of course, that one can operate in some form of vacuum in relation to the Storting decision and not least the Storting's premise for its decisions. There has to be a balance here, and I think that the Council's response suggests that she has the right balance in these circumstances. But the question of the NRK is also a far wider question. I have every faith in that call, funding, etc. TV2 will pursue important cultural policy objectives. But we have an incomplete media situation in the country if we don't have a strong public broadcasting company like the NRC. These are a number of commitments of many kinds, social, cultural, geographical, etc., which necessarily have to be lost in a purely commercial system. That is why I am convinced that the debate in the political bodies on the future economy of the NRK – with the freedom to have the NRK – may be the biggest and most important cultural policy debate we are facing. I don't belong to them, and I never did, wanting a full or partial commercialization of NRK's revenues. I think that there too you have found a balance point that you can live with. But the NRK's ability to raise other incomes, I think we need to deal with them in a slightly more prejudiced way – perhaps also what the NRC should bear, not only in terms of technical progress, but also in the wider cultural commitments. Either way, we all lose if we go into one of the two ditches that this is possible, a commercialized NRK or a NRK that can't afford to take its liabilities seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1457	The debate we have had today has in a way become just a debate in the wake of all the other debates we have had in relation to the budget for next year, which is a confirmation that there is no alternative other than the Progress Party in Norwegian policy. It's kind of nice to sit and listen to the center parties and the Workers' Party when representatives from both sides spend a lot of energy looking for the little posts, down to NOK 100,000, where they disagree. The point is that the central parties and the Workers' Party for the second consecutive year is 100 pst. agree with what has happened. That's why I say the Progress Party is the only option, and then it's a big break. This debate has also confirmed this, particularly in relation to cultural policy and children's and family policy. I would also like to take the opportunity to clarify a misunderstanding, or an attempt at a desired misunderstanding, from the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, when she does not see that the Progress Party also thinks that kindergartens are good, just that we want a different model. We listen to the parents, and when we see that it's between 50 and 60 pst. By the parents who want kindergarten as a form of care, we see that it's for the good. But at the same time, it is important for us to establish that kindergarten is no better than other forms of care. For us, it is important to clarify that the best form of care is that the children grow up with their parents. I understand that it will be honoured if you take a little explanation of vote now, so that you do not take it when the Stortinget is assembled for voting. The Progress Party has made alternative proposals only within the framework area 3. I would like to make it clear that we are voting against the other proposals that lie there. We would like to support VI in the Right-wing proposal under Framework Area 3, if possible. This concerns the NRK licence. We will also support Right-wing proposal No. 4 below the frame area 1. This will automatically happen as I signal that we will support the entire framework proposal of the Right in Framework Area 1. Otherwise, as I said, we will vote against all the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1469	The President will here and now inform you that it will not be possible to support one of the Roman figures under the Right proposal. The other wishes that Sandberg's representative had, the President will seek to fulfill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1472	I asked for the word because I was challenged so forcefully by the Labour Party's faction leader when it came to the NRK. It is clear to me that the meaning that the NRC has and has had as a social institution and a cultural institution is almost unsurpassable. It's an important political question, even though the NRK has also become an AS. The council said she was humble in relation to the NRK. I probably don't want to use that expression, but of course I have a lot of understanding of the complexity of the challenges facing management and the board. I was also challenged by the fact that I was Minister of Culture. And I can admit that I had a little bit of difficulty dealing with the issue that has been a topic here today, namely the district offices in Northland and Eastfold. That is why I also said in my speech that it is possible to discuss whether majority comments are binding. I'm actually in doubt about it in the first place. But when the Storting has done the aftermath that has been here, I believe that the signal that is now being given should be followed up by the NRK. Then I also took what was pointed out here from Telemark, the unfortunate thing about whether Stortinget highlights two district offices, which were mentioned, before the NRK became AS, and then it is organized in the NRK so that developments in these areas occur at the expense of the others. I think it must be my duty, or at least my right, to tell you about it. Then we have quoted in the setting from Ellen Horn's answer in Stortinget's question time in October. She then said that if the Governing Council of the NRC were to make proposals that would lead to changes in the regional policy structure, the matter would require political consideration. The Workers' Party has participated in a comment on the extent to which this wording has been used, but it has been reinforced by saying 'comprehensive'. I didn't say that in my post, but I quoted the council correctly. With regard to the need for political treatment, I am of course aware that there are different definitions of what is political treatment. And I'm typing that the Workers' Party, and perhaps the Government with the Council of State at its head, will believe that the General Assembly is political treatment. We can discuss that if that case shows up. Finally, I would like to stress that I fully agree with the views expressed by Tom Thoresen regarding the NRK. Here we are facing an institution that has very, very important societal tasks, that we have to sort of care about, and don't apologize to us that this is an AS that we don't have anything to do with. We have to engage, without thereby laying political leadership and caring about governance directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1483	It should be completely unnecessary to say that I fully agree with this view of the NRC, that it is one of our most important social institutions and cultural institutions, and that we have both the right and the duty to care. That is why it is good that the NRK has been such a hot topic in this debate. That has not been the case before. I think one of the reasons why the NRK has come up in a disaster is that they've focused too heavily on winning the battle for the viewers and listeners. For this reason, they have also cut out some narrow programmes that have been important and that have had many listeners in national contexts, such as the ‘desired poem’ and other important cultural programmes. But I don't think, unlike others here, that the NRK is able to solve all of its non-subsidized tasks. They must have something more than the licence revenue, and therefore SV has proposed that the NRK should be treated as being equivalent to the newspapers, that is to say, zero VAT rate and could deduct VAT input tax on investments. The next year, if that scheme had been put in place, it would have been $40 million. kr for the NRK on a half-yearly basis, and the more they invest in the necessary digital equipment, the more subsidies they will receive in the form of inward VAT. So an area that might be narrow to some, but that's important anyway. It's about the artists. The artists have wanted an independent centre of communication and contact with the rest of the world, just like the authors have. They have NORLA, and it has helped the authors very much in terms of exchange and to get ideas in cooperation with others abroad. There has been a discussion around the international community, and I record with interest that the Minister of Culture has also addressed it. I encourage her to be even more on the field in relation to art and culture at the artists' own premises. I have registered the answer from the department, and I see it as a confirmation that the department and the council are also looking at this with an artist's center as interesting, and that it might be placed in the House of Artists. I encourage the Minister of Culture to continue working on that. At least she needs SV's support, and she has the support of the artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1497	It is tempting to go further in the debate on NRK district offices and the usefulness and joy of having such a district office. There is today a joint broadcast, NRK 4, which broadcasts from Eastfold, Westfold, Buskerud and Telemark. I'm recording that there's a lot of attention on Eastfold here, and then a little bit on Telemark, but there's actually a couple of other states that don't have their own district office either. I hope the Minister of Culture is dealing with this in a way that makes the NRK also have certain powers to find the pattern that editorial works best. It's far from Haugastøl to Halden, and that's the coverage of this transmitter. So just like a little video, there's actually a couple of states that nobody's ever thought about in this context. But anyway, what is my conclusion to today's debate is that there is quite a broad consensus on many of the challenges, especially in the field of culture. I'm glad that exactly in that area, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand far apart. I would like to see the Progress Party approaching the Right when it comes to culture, but as today's reality is, I think it's good to be able to say that the Right has a completely different view of cultural policy and the importance of having strong national institutions, for example. as emphasized by the Progress Party. So, an explanation of vote. The representative, Sandberg, would like to support the Right’s proposal under Framework Area 1. The problem is that that proposal should never have stood there. So I draw proposal number. 1, because that proposal is outside the framework. There has been an error in the setting, as there are 400 million missing. kr. So that's not something we're going to vote on. Otherwise, the Right has its own proposals under Framework Areas 2 and 3, and of course we will vote in favour of those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1508	I challenged the Council of State earlier to take advantage of the possibility of a three-minute trip. I record that the Council of State does not do that. When I now, however, take the word at risk of being labeled as a meeting plague, it is precisely because I am calling for answers and assessments from the department. I tried to give a little signal to the Council of State in relation to the assessments of the district offices, and specifically in relation to Telemark's situation, but I don't get any answers today either. This means that I will provide a fairly clear signal to the Council of State that NRK Telemark needs to clarify its situation, because it is about many jobs. There is a letter in the department from me personally from a while back that has not been answered by the department either. Therefore, I feel the need to underline the signals that are coming, and take note that the Council of State has so far not wanted to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1517	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 1424]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1531	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1545	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1456]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1559	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1573	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1587	Just cards. I should just like to promote the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1592	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1608	The President has been made aware that the proposals made by Per Sandberg in connection with the previous case were to be addressed in connection with this matter, case No. 7th@item: inlistbox I assume that Siv Jensen can address those proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1611	I will be allowed to correct a minor error in the setting. It is on page 18 of the setting, in column 1, on line 12, where reference is made to 800 annual works. The number is going to be 400. Otherwise, I refer to the setting that it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1616	We greatly appreciate help and guidance, so that we can address all of our suggestions. I mean, budget-inner. S No 6 the Party of Advancement and the Right together have found it necessary to re-prioritize within the framework. We initially had a completely different framework, but when the budget was adopted, we have at least made changes within it. One of the conditions we've been concerned with is the Small Boat Register. We have repeatedly pointed out that the establishment of the Small Boat Register would of course be an excuse to start charging at a later stage. And we've now got that right. So now there is a so-called self-financing system. It may seem very reliable, but the reality is that some people actually have to pay something for this register to have their existence. We are against that, and we are therefore also promoting proposals to close the Small Boat Register as soon as possible. In the context of the budgetary agreement, the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties agreed to cut the tariff and levy rates. I am pleased to note that the same batches have now gone against it, precisely because of the important task that the customs service is doing in terms of border control and other important tasks. I'm glad it doesn't apply anymore. I think I will end the debate here, and just bring up the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1629	Siv Jensen has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1632	Although it's Friday afternoon and there's a certain risk that I'm extending the debate, I still want to say a few words about the reorganization of the equation rate, where the government gives the following description: The Equation Level shall be improved, it shall have a more uniform quality of work, better resource use shall be ensured and good professional environments shall be developed. No employee shall be dismissed. The Equation Court shall be present in all municipalities. Most public enquiries must be available in all municipalities in the country. Outermost municipalities are to a small extent affected by the reorganisation. 700 jobs are to be redeployed between neighbouring municipalities. No employees should have to change their place of residence to keep the job. No staff member shall be required to travel unreasonably to his new place of work, if any. The reorganisation is justified by the fact that small office units are operationally very vulnerable and relatively more expensive than larger units. The large number of units restrict the possibilities for monitoring and control by county tax offices is further claimed. Small offices have a limited impact on the ability to develop skills and professional environments that will meet the necessary requirements for quality and efficiency in work, it is further claimed in the proposal. In the light of such a description, it is incredible to be able to conclude that all these considerations can be met. The economies of scale must be achieved, while at the same time maintaining all offices in all the municipalities of the country. If fewer and larger agencies are really thought to be needed to develop skills, ensure uniform management, make better use of resources, etc., this is an understandable argument in itself. But when, on the other hand, it is claimed that no one should be affected by such extensive reorganisation – the level of service and availability should be maintained, the number of offices should remain unchanged and costs should be significantly lower – yes, at best self-deception is carried out. This is the centralisation and reduction of services in district municipalities in line with what we have seen in a number of other areas. Workplaces disappear, housing is reduced and centralisation continues. Others have also tried on such a regionalization model that we are talking about here. The banks have done so in many ways. Tasks were shifted, competences centralised to regional offices. Employees spent a large part of their working time running to and from work for a period of time at considerable cost to their employers. In a short time, experience showed that employees chose to move or change jobs. It was simply too small to make sense to use working time to drive to and from work, and too tiring. It is an honest matter to advocate reorganisation and centralisation, but it is not an honest matter to present it as if no one will be affected, and as if the level of service to the individual will not be changed. The proposal will involve extensive closure of national Equations Offices. The centre party goes in to continue today's model with the necessary adjustments to take into account that new technology offers new opportunities. More uniform treatment is needed, as the majority also points out, and greater specialisation is needed depending on, inter alia, the structure of nutrition. However, these aspects can be addressed — while developing professional environments based on small units — based on the active use of new technologies and cooperation between individual offices. I had actually had a hope that we were now approaching the point where we could ask some basic questions by believing that centralization and larger units would necessarily provide cheaper and better services. Thus, at a time when many actually express the idea of moving to rural or small communities, at a time when technology makes it possible to decentralize, a strong defence of the policies of large units is being provided, and a fundamental scepticism shows that it is possible to meet the challenges of the future in small communities. This is stigmatizing. This implies the need for business to base the same thinking on efficiency and development of competences. It is, in my opinion, bad, and carries out bids for the majority's arrogance with regard to the possibility of developing the professional environments and activities of the whole country in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1678	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1681	No one wants to extend the debate, but it is clear that the article on the topic currently being addressed by the representative, Mr Enoksen, needs to be addressed. You can't leave it undisputed from this pulpit that we should have an Equator structure in this country for the sake of employees in the Equators. We're going to have Equations Offices that are there for the benefit of the inhabitants, for the sake of the inhabitants. We need to have a procedure and a system that works best for citizens. I noted that the argument that the representative of Enoxen now led from the interlocutory could confuse the defence of why, for reasons of – I don't know – the districts, perhaps, should maintain an unnecessary bureaucracy if it might be necessary to make changes so that it works better according to purpose. I could imagine hearing what is really the motivation for this, because I can't understand that there should be any disagreement about the need to also streamline the public sector on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1690	There is no disagreement that there is a need to streamline and implement both new technologies, new instruments and new processes. That is to the extent that an honest position is put forward by the representative, Siv Jensen, in relation to the need for the conversion of the set of equations. The problem is that the majority joins a description as if everything were going to happen, but nothing is going to happen. Equations offices should be maintained in all municipalities, depending on a different structure from the one you have today. You have to have employees in the Equation Court in all municipalities, but you have to have a centralisation to regional offices, which are to become professionally good environments. That means that today’s environments around the municipalities are becoming even weaker professional environments. At the same time, it is said that the degree of service should be maintained and that the audience should receive a response to all their enquiries in their municipality. There's a number of paradoxes in what the majority of people here share and join. A number of contradictions are also, and that is one of my points in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1697	Like the representative, Siv Jensen, I do not believe that the allegations made by the representative, Mr Enoxsen, can be contradicted. Today's Business yesterday we could read all over the front page that due to the budget compromise reached between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party, 200 new bureaucrats have to be hired to follow up both the economic and tax reforms. Then you read in what comes from the Government in terms of the reorganisation of the equation rate, that in the tax rate as a whole, you'll be able to free 400 people through the reorganisation that the Government is now putting up with. What the Central Party does by saying no to the scheme proposed by the Government is to say no to freeing substantial labour, a labour force that can rather work to improve the management of equations, not least it can also provide us with a better follow-up and fairer treatment. The problem today is that equal cases are treated differently because the equality offices often have too little professional environment, so you don't have anyone to play ball with. It's going to go down on the quality. In addition, it is often that if you do not have a certain form of coordination, a tax case can be handled in a way in x municipality and unlike that in y municipality. So it's not just helping with the equation ABC. We saw an analog example the last day when we had the power plant tax for treatment. There was a great deal of disagreement about the tariff base, because the tariffs were designed on a local basis. There was no consistent practice. We had a proposal that we should perhaps consider having the Central Tax Office do the calculation of the tariffs. A more consistent practice is good, and labour is freed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1706	This debate is probably part of the structural debate that we have in many areas and that might deserve some treatment other than this way of doing it. I don't actually belong to those who believe that this kind of restructuring leads to the huge cost savings that the majority here uses. I want to remind the representative Børge Brende that in St.prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Finance, on page 23, it says that it should be approx. 100 district offices, which will become larger offices responsible for each of their regions. In addition, there shall be 180-200 storerooms and there shall be offices with office functions in 130-140 municipalities. This means that the aim is to maintain the presence of the Equator in all of the 435 municipalities of the country, as far as I can understand from this point of view. Then I must say that the representatives Mr. Børge Brende and Mr. Siv Jensen's wishes for larger and fewer offices are real enough. I can accept that you want a discussion about it. But at the same time, when you try to present this as if no municipalities are affected, it is ripping off. And that's actually what the majority have joined. In these 130-140 municipalities, which are to have offices with office functions, you will have one person who is likely to be left alone and who will take care of the entire service. Will there be a professional environment that is developing, that provides recruitment and that ensures that skills development can be ensured? The majority use their own arguments against the model that the Center Party wants to maintain. You say it's actually going to be possible to get both of them, you have to get a better service and a decentralised service. When we say that we want to have a decentralised service based on today's structure, that's not possible, because then you have to save money. But you don't even have a scheme that makes it easier to save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1721	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1724	In order not to extend the debate unnecessarily, I will only address the excellent proposals SV have in the vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1729	Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1732	It is necessary to extend the debate after Mr Enoch's speech, because not everything he said here cannot be contradicted. It is true that the organisation of local equality management, with a combined equality office and population register for each municipality, has remained largely unchanged since the government of the equation administration in 1965. It's actually 35 years ago. Therefore, it is high time that the Government has now taken up the work of looking at a reorganization of today's Equations Offices. Today's structure with many small offices, many two-thirds offices, has a very limited impact on the ability to develop skills and professional environments to meet the requirements of quality and efficiency in the work on equations. And this work is just becoming more and more demanding with more and more complicated tax conditions. The district model proposed by the Government is a very good starting point for achieving the goals that have been set to bring a more modern set of equations into line with today's challenges. We'll get improving the quality of the work on equal opportunities improve resource use more development of competences more effectively combating financial crime increased legal certainty, and finally, and not least more equal treatment of taxpayers It is not the case that the Equations Offices are to be closed down. There should still be an equality office in each municipality, but each municipality should not necessarily carry out the same tasks within the new district. And it's possible to distribute the problems so that you get a bigger basis for dealing with the same problems. It is also true that regional policy is very good at this model. The municipalities that are so remote from communication and a long way to a district office and therefore difficult to get there, yes, these municipalities will still have a so-called local office, i.e. an office similar to theirs today. The government also assumes that the jobs in the outlying municipalities are to a large extent to be maintained. But in those municipalities where the distances to the district office are short and it's easy to get there – and now we're talking about the more central ones – the municipalities have an office with office functions, i.e. that the tax rate should be coordinated with, for example: another State office or service office in the municipality. Such an office will be able to carry out most of the services provided by the EQS today, but will also be able to facilitate more expertise at the district offices if necessary, so that customers can obtain the help they need. With today's technological development, it is not necessary to sit across the table with a case handler. It's not like today's Equations Offices are being run down by people. I have been involved in a survey in my own municipality with 4 000 people, when we were going to move the Equator. On average, there were two enquiries per month. the date of physical contact with the office. It's little when there's two-three people in the same office. Therefore, it is surprising that the Center Party is opposed to the Government's proposal for changes to the structure of equations and will continue the current model, i.e. the model from 1965. It is not right that the majority in the Committee now supports a comprehensive closure of equality offices throughout the country. I'll take a distance from that. Nor is it reasonable to say that if there is to be an equation denominator in each district office to make decisions for taxpayers in several municipalities, this is a breach of the thinking behind the local denominators, as the Senterpartie claims in its remark. It's not like we're not going to have an equation exam in each municipality. It shall continue to be maintained. Earlier today, the former centre party leader had a post where she said that the organizations that did not renew were going to be confused. That's probably not what the Center Party believes anymore.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1775	I will, on behalf of the Right, raise proposal No. 5 in the setting. After listening to the arguments of the Center Party against the reorganization of the system of equations, I am further strengthened in the belief that we are on the right track. As the Centre Party perceives the bill of equations, it shall obviously be a municipal employment measure. That's how we've never seen it; we've seen it as a service measure to the taxpayers and to the citizens of the country. And we feel that the reorganisation that is now underway, otherwise with the support of the staff in the establishment, is a step towards providing qualitatively better service. Much could also have been said about the proposal in the decision to set up a state investment company, cap. 967. However, I have to leave that to me. I just want to point out the paradox that emerges every time we create semi-state/state investment companies. Eventually, these companies also become part of the stream of complaints coming to the Committee that the framework conditions in Norway are not good enough. They add to the arguments put forward by the Right for quite a long time in fact, that some of the most important in maintaining business and capital in the country is that there are competitive framework conditions. At the latest during the budgetary procedure of this harvest, as so many times before, we also received letters from investment companies, one of which is the former political result Norsk Venture, which was established as a state-owned private company in addition, and has gradually been privatised. Now they write to the Finance Committee, to the Stortinget, and complain about the conditions of establishment in Norway. The question is whether this lesson did not eventually go into the majority. I had a certain hope for the center at a certain point in time about this, but it's at least given up in this context. The Centre also supports the use of state resources to set up semi-state investment companies, which will also, in a few years' time, complain to the Storting that the framework conditions are not good enough, and that that is why.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1786	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1789	I am pleased to note that the Storting essentially ends up with the Government's draft budget under Framework Area 22, the Financial Administration. The budget decision, in my opinion, will provide a good basis for the financial administration to carry out the societal tasks facing it in the coming years. It is such that the adopted changes in tax law represent major challenges for the financial administration, including: the introduction of a new major reform linked to the VAT system. I am otherwise glad that the majority ends up with the Government's proposal for the reorganisation of the equation management. As stated in the report of the Ministry of Finance's budget proposal, the Government considers the proposal for the renewal of the Equation Management as very important, both as part of the general government's work on the renewal of the administration, and as regards the tax rate in isolation. Most of us have enjoyed the fact that the tax rate has come a long way in technological development. 600000 of the taxpayers made use of new technological possibilities related to the Internet and the keyboard, in connection with the delivery of the tax return for the previous year. It also implies, of course, that the establishment must organise its organisation in relation to a new way of operating its services. On the other hand, we know that we are facing complicated business-related problems, for which there is a need for additional resources. And when we can see the two things in context, it gives opportunities for a reorganization gain. Nevertheless, the proposal presented involves a moderate reorganisation, in the sense that significant attention has been paid to the districts and to the interests of employees. I am not hesitant to say that the proposal that we are proposing today is absolutely in keeping with the regional policy objectives. With today’s organisation, the Equation Management, which several have been involved, had to be added to 400 annual works in order to achieve the same effect as this reorganisation would have. And when we then focus on the important role of the tax rate in society in general, and for the public sector in particular, it is particularly important that this sector has a good target, a good use of resources. And better organisation and governance of this part of the tax bill is therefore of great importance. That's why I have great faith in the value of the reorganisation that Stortinget has today given its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1805	A debate yesterday raised doubts about who is really right in relation to these claims about 200 new red tape jobs linked to the administration of the VAT reform recently adopted by the budget officials in Stortinget. State Secretary Ellen Mo stated that, in their opinion, 200 new posts were needed to manage the VAT reform, while the representative of the government, Odd Roger Enoxsen, in direct debate on the radio, stated that he did not believe in this, despite having been able to adopt it himself. I think it might be interesting to hear the opinion of the Council responsible that a VAT reform has now been adopted with so many administrative problems, which now means that administrative bureaucracy needs to be further blown up, in order to follow up what has been argued to be a simplification. Is it true that the Council of State believes that VAT reform has contributed to simplification? What, then, is the reason why this leads to another 200 – and perhaps more, for what I know – employees to administer the reform? In addition, it might be interesting to know what this might be. means the customs office. Have any assessments been made of the need for new employment in the customs tariff to administer the same reform? And then what is your number there? It might have been interesting to hear an assessment of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1812	I find reason to stress that VAT reform is a major reform. The size adopts regular reforms of a different nature, but it is rare for the Storting to face a reform of the scale of the VAT reform on services on a general basis. It is assumed that there will be around 60,000 more VAT-payers as a result of the reform, and it naturally requires administrative capacity to meet such a challenge. It is true that the VAT reform as presented by the Government was estimated to increase the need for resources in the sector and for the country as a whole in the order of 190. With the changes that result from Storting's treatment, it is assumed that it will be about 200. It is also true that the starting point for the Government’s proposal for VAT reform was an improvement in efficiency – an increase in efficiency compared to the fact that many businesses today have significant problems with shared activities. This applies, inter alia, to: hotel and accommodation activities where the accommodation is not subject to VAT, while the catering part is subject to VAT. And that's the way it is in different areas. It is likely that, as a result of the treatment of Storting, this type of efficiency has been slightly reduced, for example. as a result of not including passenger transport and overnight accommodation in the VAT system. On the other hand, it is of course somewhat more complicated to introduce a lower rate of VAT for as many taxable persons as it would be in relation to reducing the VAT on foodstuffs. But it has other objectives, including: in relation to reducing the price of food, which has been given decisive importance by the majority of the United Kingdom. We take note of that, but it also shows that the emphasis of the reform has become somewhat different from that of the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1823	After listening to the Minister of Finance in the last week, it can almost be seen that the Labour Party has not been involved in any budgetary settlement with the centre containing the short-term tax and changes in the VAT reform presented by the Government. The point is that there is a agreed solution, so that the Minister of Finance must of course take responsibility for the fact that his party has made a settlement involving a short-term tax and a VAT reform that is now difficult to practice. I guess the Council of State was also constantly briefed on the progress of the negotiations and was one with which the ball was played. In his speech, the Council of State said that the tax administration is facing major challenges until next year, and he is quite right – not least in the case of VAT reform, but perhaps equally so in the case of the new cyclical tax, which is supposed to be temporary. So I think we should use the opportunity here today to get some deepening from the Council of State on how the equation management and tax rate should relate to new cyclical charges. A few weeks have passed since Stortinget decided on this fee, so now the department has to be able to give some answers. It should be temporary, and now there is a concern that there will be Mediterranean states in the case of Norwegian industrial buildings. As it will be temporary, I will ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: If the establishment of an industrial building is started today and it is not completed until 2002 or 2003, will the fee be calculated for the year of completion of the construction, and what consequences will it have for the complete completion of the business building? That's the one question. The second question is: where binding agreements have been concluded only between the lessor and the lessee and not with the contractor, and where the lessor is legally responsible for setting up e.g.: a hotel or establishment will it also benefit from the exemption for the fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1833	I am very pleased that there has been agreement in Stortinget to the main lines of the VAT reform with some different devices in relation to what was proposed by the Government, but just as fully so that the basic principle of a general VAT on services is endorsed. It is a major reform. It is a reform that has been prepared for ten years. I don't have, through, among other things. the observations on the national budget for the current year, recorded that the Right has had some fundamental resistance to the imposition of general VAT on services. The right has indicated that there is a desire for some other progress in this work, but it is true that assuming that it would be right over time to introduce a general VAT on services means, of course, that there is also a need to have the necessary resources to carry out such a reform. I assume that the representative Burne does not consider that we should have a random treatment of the various VAT-payers, but that they should be, on the contrary, guaranteed proper administrative treatment, and then, of course, we must also have a capacity in the administration to ensure this. This is the background for increased resource needs. Then the representative raises the question about the impact of the changes made to the budget agreement in Stortinget. Yes, there is another emphasis that has occurred as a result of the treatment in Stortinget. The reasons for simplification which led to the conclusion that overnight accommodation and passenger transport were right to be within the VAT system, but at a lower rate, were not given equal weight in Stortinget, while the majority in Stortinget wanted a lower VAT rate on food. So let's think about that. It takes the government into account, and we're going to design it. Then the representative also raises questions about the short-term tax on barley. Yeah, it's complicated. So it's not a proposal that the government has prepared to make. That is the result of the treatment in Stortinget, and as I have also explained earlier, the government needs some time here to complete the legislation and the regulatory system to be implemented, but I assume that we will have ready for implementation on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1842	I do not think the Council of State should get away with this, because it is now time for the budget to be adopted on 28 November, and I would assume that during the budgetary procedure at least some of the consequences of such a cyclical tax would be assessed. One of the questions I raised during the financial debate, which I did not get an answer to then, but which I hope the Council of State can answer now, was the delimitation of e.g. school construction. To give an example: Road Cover has agreed to build a school for a municipality. For Road Deck, this means that the school building will be an industrial building, but for the municipality it will be a school building that they rent from Road Deck to do school activities in the municipality. Is such a building to be defined as an industrial building and thus subject to a business cycle charge? Or shouldn't it? So it's not very clear right over here. The representative Burnde also asked some questions about limitations on this. Do you have to calculate the fee for a building that is not completed in 2001, or are you not going to? I think the Council of State should be able to give some answers to that. It is now the case that once the Stortinget has adopted this – albeit against the votes of the Progress Party – the Ministry should, with all due respect, have a sense of how this should be followed in practice, as the levy will come into force as from 1 January, and there are relatively many who wonder what this means. There is relatively high market uncertainty as to how to deal with the levy. Then I think it must be reasonable to demand a clearer answer from the Council of State than what he gave in the previous line exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1849	I have a great understanding of the need for clear boundaries in relation to the impact of the short-term tax on barley. However, as I have stated earlier in the Stortinget, in so far as proposals have been adopted that do not have the same degree of preparation as, for example, for the short-term tax on barley and some other elements of the budgetary agreement. VAT reform, the Ministry must for its part derive from the decisions taken by the Stortingen on how a more concrete approach should be. So there is a need to spend a little more time on the follow-up work than it is in those cases where the matter has been prepared in advance. The representative then raises questions about an industrial structure such as: rented out. The starting point here is that, to the extent that an enterprise is a depreciable activity, it is subject to the cyclical charge. Corresponding to Brende's question about rental activities: it is also true that the decision taken by the Stortinget does not give rise to the conclusion that an agreement on rental provides a basis for exemption from the general rule that the economic cycle charge should apply. We're going to clarify these rules over the next few weeks, so there's going to be rules clear by the end of the year. I also record that both representatives, both Jensen and Burnde, raise questions about activities that have not been completed in 2001. In this respect, it must be borne in mind that the decision of the Storting must be understood as such, if one were to decide not to continue the tax in 2002, to continue the necessary provisions, so that the activities which have been undertaken are covered even if they are completed after the end of the period initially in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1860	I record that the government is entering in 2001 with a short-term building tax that you do not know how it will work, nor can you tell me what it includes. I'm just taking note that we don't get answers to these questions. That is what the Government defines as predictable framework conditions, which are offered to Norwegian workers and businesses. But I would like to raise another question that is still unclear about the short-term tax on barley. Is this a business cycle tax that is meant to last only as long as the economic cycle so long? Or is it a permanent fee? I can ask the question in a different way: if it is the case that business cycle shows that there is no increasing order quantity in business buildings, is the business cycle tax unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1867	A business cycle fee is, by its very nature, a temporary fee. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the moment I also responded to in the reply of the representative Jensen, who was also following the question from the representative Burnde, that we must assume that transitional rules should be laid down in the event of a liquidation, which is such that the activities that have been started during the period of the fee should not be able to be pushed out until after the charging period is over, and then to release the fee. Therefore, it must be assumed that the Storting here assumes that the intention is that activities carried out in 2001 should be included in the levy even if the activity extends over 2002. It must then be further clarified by the Storting in the event of liquidation. So the representative raises the question: what if it turns out that there is no increased activity in the construction industry? Here is the assumption that the Stortinget has adopted the cyclical tax for 2001. That's what the government is basing on, unless the Storting should come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1874	I have a great deal of understanding that the Minister of Finance thinks that the cyclical tax is a difficult matter, and not least difficult to give exhaustive answers in relation to. However, the ministry was in fact able to provide the negotiators with an overview of the amount of revenue this levy would generate for next year. When it was given, as it is called in the English language, the proceeds response, some internal consultations must also have been made in relation to who is to be included in the fee and who is not to be included in the fee. These are the answers that I also think Stortinget should have access to. Now, the Council of State has elaborated something, among other things. in the last reply to the representative Foss. But in addition to the fact that it is difficult, and that he therefore cannot give a good answer yet, I have to say that one must at least expect that the Council of State has thought about what he thinks is right in relation to this charge. How is it going to work? And then there are two things that I think the Council of State should now be able to give feedback on. One is sports organisations. Of course, the sports movement has also planned its training facilities and sports halls for next year. It is not organisations that traditionally have the great possibility of depreciation, but they are also allegedly imposed a short-term charge. For a new sports hall, a charge of 10 pst shall be applied. in relation to the calculation applied. Can the Council of State here and now, on a political basis, establish that gymnasiums to be set up by sporting organisations are to be defined as public buildings and exempt from this short-term industrial building tax? Because I guess that's not exactly what you were thinking about. The second question relates to binding legal agreements concluded between the lessee and the lessor. I believe the department has a legal basis for sending an extra 10 pst. to those who have legally bound themselves in that way, with retroactive effect? Isn't there a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1883	It is primarily for the purpose of stressing that the decision of the Storting states that the levy applies to construction activated within the balancing group g or h and not to other activities. Then I would like to make it clear that in response to questions from Stortinget, the Ministry has estimated that the cyclical tax on barley will amount to NOK 1.6 billion in 2001. That estimate was presented on an uncertain basis and based on estimates of the level of investment in industrial buildings that will actually be carried out in 2001, based on binding contracts concluded after 18 November 2000. In that impact, one has, among other things: believed that the amount of investment would have to be expected to decrease slightly as a result of the levy. It has also been implicitly assumed that the charging obligation will follow the contracted buildings until completion, i.e. that investments actually made in 2001 will be subject to a levy. It is a reasonable assumption, in my opinion, even if the fee, like other charges, is adopted for one year at a time. It is therefore a natural condition that the lifetime of the fee must be adapted to normal periods of construction, in order to ensure that the necessary transitional rules are also respected, should the option not be extended for 2002. I therefore think it is important to clarify that such a prerequisite has been used for the calculation of the proceeds of NOK 1.6 billion, and I also think it is essential to clarify that the fee obligation only occurs when the construction is completed, that is, when the investments are actually activated on the balancing group g or h. But it is also the most important delimitation in relation to what, among other things. The representative asks that activities that are activated on groups g and h fall within the scope of the fee obligation, while that which is not activated and amortised in this way does not fall under the charge. It is the most significant delimitation the Storting has so far made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1894	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1458]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1909	Then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1916	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1, 4, 5 and 14, from Trond Greece on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2, 6, 10-12 and 16, by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3, 7-9, 13 and 15, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 1, from the right, subtracted, so it won't get wettered over. It is first voted on the framework-independent proposals. Mr Valle has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1933	I encourage the SV Group to vote in favour of proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, as it ensures more predictability for crisis centres. I have been invited to make proposal No. 11 to a transmission proposal. We'll do that. We would also like to ask that proposal No. 10 will be sent. Proposal No. 16 we have not received any support for. That is why we draw it, and I promise the Storting will be allowed to deal with it later. Otherwise, we have our own proposals for Framework Areas 1 and 2, and when they – probably – have fallen, we will vote in favour of the majority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1938	That is proposal No. 16 is drawn, and it won't get wet over it. The representative, Mr Ågot Valle, has asked for proposals No. 10 and 11, of the Socialist Left Party, converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 10 is then replaced by the following: ‘The Government is advised to set up a public body to coordinate the work of collecting knowledge and to make violence against women visible. The Committee shall propose measures to combat violence against women and improve the protection of victims. The Secretariat shall be added to the Equality Competence Centre.’ Proposal No. 11 is worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government evaluate, by the end of 2001, the changes made to give fathers the independent right to income from birth.’ The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It is considered biphasic. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for the legalisation of individual rights to kindergarten in connection with the treatment of next year’s government budget. Individual legislative provisions shall take effect from 1 January 2002.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1964	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes to the AFP scheme to the Government of Bondevik in line with the National Budget 2000’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1978	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the State assume a greater share of the financial financing of the country’s crisis centre.’ Here the Socialist Left Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e1994	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3, 8, 9 and 15, of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government in the context of the revised budget in 2001 to submit a case on the consequences and background to the removal of the ‘knock point’ of the State Pension Fund and the basis for not making the change applicable to pensioners, after the case has been brought to the attention of pensioners’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendment to Law No 26 June 1998. 41 on cash support for small children’s parents § 2 so that cash support is provided for children between 1 and 4 years of age residing in the rich and who do not or only partially make use of nursery facilities for which a State operating grant is granted.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up and come back with proposals replacing today’s legislation on birth and adoption benefits.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals for the Storting so that the concession currently held by TV2 A/S is granted by auctioning between companies which fulfil the terms and conditions of the authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e2025	It shall then be votted over the frame area 1. There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "A. Frame Area 1 [[Central government]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e6139	The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e6152	We've come to area two. There is a different proposal from the Socialist Left and the Right. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e7402	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: "B. Framework Area 2 [[Family and consumer]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e9867	Has the Progress Party here announced that they will vote against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e9879	That's when we've reached Framework 3. There is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right. First, let's consider proposal No. 14 from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e11518	There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: "C. Frame range 3 [[Culture]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e14765	Here, too, the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e15394	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 1 December 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government, in line with the EU Remote Sales Directive, to establish a consumer reservation register that will reserve as against marketing requests in the form of e-mail or text message to mobile phones. The register shall also include consumers who wish to reserve themselves against telephone marketing. No pre-consent is required for telephone marketing»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e15601	During the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the representative of Basteen, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 5, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 6 and 7, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a verbal proposal which is independent of the framework, and it is proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit as soon as possible a closure plan for the national register of recreational craft and small boats.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e15633	The remaining proposals are linked to the framework areas and will be addressed to voting in relation to them. We'll start with area 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e15862	There is a different proposal for Framework 22 to this effect. The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: "Frame area 22 [[Financial Administration]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e16918	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: "Frame area 22 [[Financial Administration]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e18878	We have now come up with proposals for decisions outside the framework areas, and it concerns the petroleum fund and loan transactions, the so-called 90 items. There is an aberrant proposal here, and we first address proposal No. 7, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjective:Croner552National programmes and regional development measures90SIVA fund capital are granted at 10000000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e18924	We shall then vote on proposal No. 5, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner286The Research and Innovation Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5320 and 5620)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e19011	We shall then vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner286The Research and Innovation Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3286)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-15.ana.ud2176e20303	There is no record.
