ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e33	The representatives of Grethe G. Fossum, Åse Wisløff Nilssen, Grete Knudsen, Asmund Kristoffersen, Haakon Blankenborg, Dag Danielsen, Helene Falch Fladmark, Ingvald Godal, Jon Olav Alstad, Morten Lund and Siri Frost Sterri, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Five permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on sick leave for representatives Sylvia Brustad and Odd Eriksen from 29 February onwards and until further notice from the representatives Dagrun Eriksen and Anne Helen Rui on leave on 1 and 2 March in order to attend a seminar chaired by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Montreux in Switzerland from the Right-wing Group on welfare leave for the representative Kristin Krohn Devold on Thursday 2 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox These applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Sigmund KroslidFor the Hedmark County: Erling BrandsFor the Nordland County: Bears OlsenFor Oslo: Anders C. ShaastadFor the Vestfold County: Karin Lian3. Karin Lian is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e134	Erling Brandsnes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e142	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e145	On behalf of Siv Jensen, Per Erik Monsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to impose restrictions on the calculation of the tax on petrol.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e150	The representative of Lodve Solholm will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e153	On behalf of Torbjørn Andersen, Per Erik Monsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Vidar Kleppe, Per Sandberg and myself, I would like to make proposals to reintroduce the system of corporation tax to the municipalities where the companies are established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e158	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e172	I have asked a question to the Prime Minister whether he will signal to his government that the allocation of public funds should be carried out to a greater extent than at present on the basis of an assessment of the individual state's contribution to the public, thereby putting an end to the clear bottling of values from the Rogaland state for the benefit of lower-valued states. I note that the Prime Minister's office believes that the Minister of State is right to answer such a question. I therefore assume that the Prime Minister has come to know what signals the Prime Minister wants to give to his Minister of Justice on police posts in Rogaland, and what signals the Prime Minister wants to give the Minister of Transport on road appropriations to Rogaland County. Income transfers to municipalities and county councils are just one of the issues I want to raise through this interpellation. Because the ratio is going to be a pattern. The interests of Rogallanders are being disregarded in areas by area in such a way that a picture is created that there is a total lack of interest in the county's needs that permeates the entire government apparatus. Let me do some examples. I'm dealing with the justice sector first. Stavanger and Sandnes constitute a continuous urban area. As a region, the Stavanger region is larger than Trondheim City, and, of course, is struggling with all the traditional crime problems that major cities do, such as MC crime. Haugesund has major urban problems, including: with drugs. Such an area should just be a priority with police posts. Nevertheless, the overview of police posts shows per year. 1 000 inhabitants that Rogaland police districts, covering Sandnes and the municipalities south of the Jären, only have 1.34 police posts per year. 1 000 inhabitants and Haugesund only 1.31, while Vardø, for example, has 4.43 and Vadsø has 3.57. There is at all an astonishingly high police density in the areas around and on the Finnmarks. The four police districts of Finnmark score as No. 1,2.3 and 7 on the list of best police coverage among the country’s police districts in relation to population, while Rogaland police district is no. 46 and Haugesund as No. 47. Norway has a total of 54 police districts. If we look at the road sector, the situation is as follows: A car in the ten-year period 1986-1997 got Rogaland County approx. 1000 kroner, while Sogn and Fjordane and Finnmark received approx. NOK 6000. Rogaland County was in a clear last position in state roads relative to car density. Then it might be thought that this would have to result in a major upsurge in the road infrastructure of Rogaland County in the next long-term plan, 1998–2007. But no, far from it – in this plan Rogaland is located next last, while Sogn and Fjordane and Finnmark are still on top. Everyone who knows Rogaland County knows that it's not due to lack of need. Rogaland County is at its peak in productivity. We have the fastest inhabitants in the country. For many years, Rogaland has contributed to the highest value creation per person. resident of all counties. Gross domestic product per head the population is the largest in Rogaland, even excluding the oil industry. Only Akershus counties have higher tax revenues per year. resident than Rogaland. This is the clear speech of the figures, regardless of what some co-founders from other states than Rogaland have to think about it. We can ask ourselves why it's like this. And the answer, of course, is not simple. But the rogalendings are known for working hard. Our ancestors on the Jären cleared stones and created the country's best agriculture. Unemployment and creativity, capacity for conversion and exploitation of natural resources have made Rogaland one of the largest fishing communities in the country and the most well-run agricultural community. At the same time, Rogaland's business life has clearly taken advantage of the opportunities to create new jobs that the North Sea oil has given us. Only public regulations have held us back. All of this has been done through an interaction between private business and municipalities that have been good at facilitating the infrastructure needed to provide business with opportunities for establishment. And it is valued in the following way by state authorities: the state that has arranged the conditions itself so that only one other state has more tax revenue, and that has the most productive population in the country, has the second least income to go by. builds up after the government income system has been reclaimed for values. The state takes the most from Rogaland and gives Rogaland at least back. Only Akershu County receives less transfers from the state than Rogaland County per. the population. At the same time, as mentioned, we are far behind other states in police officers per year. citizens and in road vehicles. A comparison of the effects of income systems on two comparable municipalities, the municipality of Sandne in Rogaland and the municipality of Tromsø in Troms, gives a further illustration of the unfairness. The expenditure requirement for welfare services is fairly similar in the two municipalities, based on the calculation methods inherent in the income system. The municipality of Sandne is obviously much more well-run than the municipality of Tromsø, because the tax revenue per year is the population is much larger. Tax revenue per year The population of Tromsø is 92 pst. of the national average, while in Sandnes they correspond to 106 pst. of the national average. But then the income system starts to work. And the result is that the municipality of Sandne stays down to approx. 91 pst. of the national average of free income per year. resident and Tromsø on 112 pst. In other words, we have an income system that works so that the rich are made poor, and the poor are made rich. And it can hardly even be called equalization. The problems for the well-run municipalities, which are organised for employment growth and which have a working, productive and creative population, are reinforced by the fact that the design of income balancing in the income system has contributed to the local tax base being too small. In addition, there is no growth factor in the income system that emphasises the fact that in growth municipalities will necessarily have significant additional expenditure on investment in social and technical infrastructure. In 1999, 15 of the municipalities in Rogaland had a population growth of more than 1 pst. It is significantly above the national average. In spite of the fact that it should not be technically a problem to adjust the population much faster than this, subsidies under the income system are provided with a background in a year-old population. This leads to a loss for these communes of growth of approx. NOK 6 380 per year. the population. So our framework grant system is designed to take from the good municipalities and give to the less good ones. Rogaland County, which has the highest productivity of all the counties in Norway, where municipalities have been good at providing their own tax revenues, is swept to the advantage of counties who do not have the power to stand on their own feet as well. At the same time, we have seen that Rogaland is heavily discriminated against in important sectors such as justice and road construction. The question we rogalending ask ourselves is: why is it like this? What's wrong with us rogalendies since our efforts are not valued and state governments are exploiting us in this way? What virus has affected all department offices and has caused Rogaland’s problems not to be taken into account? I can't find the answer, unless it's because it's about the classic Norwegian envy virus that's usually directed at the most skilled. I had hoped that the Prime Minister could have helped me find the answer to these questions. I have given up that hope, he is not even willing to stand up and answer in Stortinget. But at least I hope that some politicians in the government building will gradually get their eyes up. Because it's not like Rogaland County is floating in milk, honey and oil. The growth in Rogaland County is created by work hands and creative minds. We don't demand to receive public transfers, we just demand that we get back as much as what is being taken from us. Then we have rogalendings to do the rest ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e200	The representative Jan Simonsen expresses in his interpellation the dissatisfaction with the allocation of public funds to the Rogaland County. As indicated by the post, the representative wants to put an end to it in his opinion, clear bottling of values from the Rogaland state in favour of lower-valued states. With regard to the allocation of State resources, this can be divided mainly into transfers over the income system and earmarked grants. The income system is a system for the distribution of State subsidies to municipalities and counties introduced in 1986 and reworked and simplified in 1997-1998. The income system is an important part of the process of decentralisation, democratisation and efficiency of public administration. The income system we have today replaced approx. 50 major and less-designated state budget grant schemes. Framework grants are the total amount transferred to a municipality or county over the income system. The municipalities of Akershus are the only municipalities to receive lower framework grants per year 2000. resident than Rogaland. However, Rogaland is just below several other counties, among others. Eastfold, Westfold and Buskerud. A background to the income system is that the level of services should not be affected by the country of residence. The income system is therefore designed in such a way that the municipalities and counties where the production of a service is more expensive will receive more funds from the income system. For example, it will. be easier to produce a good service offer in Rogaland than in Finnmark, as the representative Simonsen has used as an example. Another term commonly used for the comparison of municipalities and/or county municipalities is the level of free income. The so-called free income consists of framework grants and tax revenue. Free revenues may be made available free of charge within the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force. The level of the free revenues of the Rogaland municipalities, corrected for expenditure needs, is roughly on the national average. However, Rogaland County is one of the lowest counties. I would also like to point out that property taxes and power revenues are excluded from the income system. Three-fifths of Rogaland municipalities have taxed property. These municipalities had a total of 286.6 million in 1998. kr in income from taxes on property. These funds will not affect the level of transfers over the income system. There will always be a need to use earmarked grants in the governance of the local government sector. In particular, it may be appropriate to use designation in situations where we want the local government sector to rapidly develop new welfare services, such as them. do in the elderly effort. However, it is a problem with earmarked grants that they will often be distributed in a distorted way. The Rogaland municipalities receive a lower proportion of the earmarked grants than a distribution by population. For this government, it will be a priority objective to have a greater share of the earmarked grants in the income system. In 2000, the Rogaland counties came out a little better than last year in the allocation of regional policy resources. Rogaland County has eight municipalities in Zone C in the district policy area and one municipality in Zone D. At the last revision of the DU area, five municipalities in the county improved their situation, namely Sokndal, Lund, Vindafjord and Finnøy, which were moved up in zone C, and forwarding that got D status. This has contributed to an increase in DU grants to Rogaland County. The representative also expresses his dissatisfaction with the police coverage in Rogaland. For police coverage in Norway, the average is 2.26 per year. 1000 inhabitants. Two of the three police districts in Rogaland County are among the police districts with the lowest police coverage. The figures for Haugesund and Sandne’s police districts are 1.66 and 1.68 police officers, respectively. 1000 inhabitants. St. pp. No 1 estimates the need for the creation of approximately 280 new positions for newly trained police students in 2000. The government will return to the need for funding for new posts in the context of the revised national budget. The distribution of positions to police districts is mainly calculated on the basis of population, crime and housing density. Based on these variables, positions will be allocated to those areas where the need is greater. Here, of course, both Sandnes and Haugesund will be current districts. Following a mission from Stortinget, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a police crew plan towards 2005. This will be submitted to the Stortinget in connection with a major police report for the autumn. A review of the overall resources and response of the police will be carried out in order to ensure a proper allocation of resources between police districts. The Ministry of Justice is aware of the situation both in Sandnes and Haugesund as regards both drug problems and MC crime. These are among the factors that will be taken into account in allocating resources to police districts. Both police districts have been and will be provided with additional funds in addition to ordinary budgetary resources to combat, inter alia, street violence and MC crime. The government wants all residents regardless of their place of residence to have an equivalent service offer. This implies the need for redistribution of tax revenue between the counties. There will always be a need to look at the distribution of state transfers between municipalities and counties. This will be done in the municipal economic proposition of spring. I do not believe, however, that the representative Jan Simonsen has coverage for his claim that Rogaland is being tapped for values to a greater extent than for other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e232	The Council’s response was, as it were, an estimate of figures and an explanation of the income system. However, the estimation of the figures just proved that Rogaland is poor compared to other states in different types of transfers, and therefore does not agree with the conclusion of the Council of State that Rogaland is not being tapped in relation to other states. My question went on more than just the income system. The most important thing was to figure out that there is a pattern that applies in several areas. It was also confirmed by the Council of State, which had clearly consulted the Minister of Justice. I am very pleased that he somehow gave the same signals as the Minister of Justice gave on a question-time question about the police coverage in Rogaland a little while ago, namely that Rogaland County is going to get very badly into police coverage, and that the Ministry of Justice is going to do something about this when it comes to assigning new posts to the summer. In the case of the income system, the Council of State stated its intention to lead to decentralisation, democratisation and efficiency. In my opinion, this is a system, a socialist transmission system, which leads far from improving the effectiveness of municipalities. On the contrary, municipalities are becoming less and less dependent on their own tax receipts, and thus also less dependent on facilitating their own business – and increasingly dependent on transfers from the government. The conversion of corporation tax that was made not long ago, where income from corporation tax no longer goes to the municipalities, works in the same direction: it removes the incentive for municipal politicians to organise infrastructure for business and makes the municipalities depend on the income system instead. This could not be a policy leading to growth and progress. This is a policy that needs to be changed, and I assume that both the Council of State, the representatives of the big business and the President registered that the Progress Party today presented a Document No. 8-proposal for amendments to company taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e243	As I said in my answer to the interpellation: Rogaland has free revenues in line with the national average. It is the free revenues that largely determine the extent to which you have the opportunity to cover the service offer in addition to what is prescribed by law: that you have to have an equivalent service offer throughout the country. It is the Government's ambition that municipalities and county councils retain more of their own income, or a greater share of their income. Therefore, we also intend to escalate the share of income from taxes up to 50 pst. This proportion is currently between 44 pst. and 45 pst. It has to be increased up to 45 pst. The government's ambition in that area is firm, but it does not depend on the principle that we must have a redistribution between municipalities, county councils and geographical areas to ensure that we have equivalence in the service provision. I think that the most important thing we can do to achieve a more efficient municipal sector is that municipalities get more of their own resources, as they themselves want, namely in the form of free resources and not in the form of earrings, such as, among other things. The Progress Party wants to see a high level of funding earmarked for both the school sector and the health sector. All the experience shows – including the Riksrevision report presented before Christmas – that this is the most inefficient way we can run the municipal sector. It is necessary to use designation for the implementation of national reforms where national bets are to be made in some areas, but to introduce it as a principle, contrary to its purpose and not as the representative Simonsen wishes. In addition – as I said – the income system will be reviewed in the municipal economic proposition of spring, in order to look at the conditions that the Stortinget has called for, and how we are to finance the local government sector in order to maintain a greater share of its income.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e254	Just a few points of view from the Labour Party. I think Jan Simonsen actually let the cat out of the bag when he called this income system a ‘socialist transmission system’. Well, that's what he's really dealing with in his interpellation. I think it's a little strange that the Progress Party, which wants to put down the county councils, is now very concerned with each state and the value creation in the county and does not say anything about what happens if we put down the county councils. The Labour Party agrees with what Mr Enoxsen has said, and we are waiting for the review of the income system. Budget-in-one. S. No 5 shows that the Progress Party was in the majority who asked for this review. The Labour Party agrees that we now need a debate on whether the municipalities should retain more of the free income, but there is a debate that needs to be taken in the right order, and not just in an interpellation in the Stortinget, as Jan Simonsen puts it. Because it's also important that we know what we do if we give the municipalities greater tax freedom, so that we agree when the Storting makes a decision about it. The debate on major regions in Norway will be an exciting debate, given that it is now time to look at the counties and the state boundaries of the Danish king. It might be desirable eventually to change them. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that we are now getting a proper review, and that the Government is submitting this to the spring. We're also very excited about what the Task Distribution Committee is doing. We support the view that here we have time to wait, and then we get to take it in the right order.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e265	I understand that the interpellant raises a question that many Rogaland residents ask. And then I feel that a person should spend some time on it in Stortinget, to shed light on whether there is a hold of the claims about these states. Rogaland is a particularly valuable state. In the populace, it represents 10 pst. of the inhabitants of Norway. For production statistics, the percentage is usually larger. Rogaland has a strong business life in industry, services and agriculture, where products amount to 20 pst. of the total in Norway. It also has a strong internationalisation. For all this, Rogaland gets a lot back. Rogaland does not have the biggest problems, but requires a return of funds to provide poor services to its inhabitants. The county council is under-represented in relation to the Rattsø proposals. Before the transport sector has carried out major tasks and expectations. The North-Jearen package is a good brittle layer for a general standard highlight when it comes to communications in this region, for which there is a population basis. But North Rogaland, Ryfylke and Dalane also have their necessary transport and traffic security projects such as T-connection, Ryfylke's mainland link and connections between the islands. I also mention the railway in the Drangsdalen, where the speed limit is 30 km/h for trains. These projects are important for the whole state to have such a development. It also looks beyond the borders, and we admit that raising the E39 and E18 standards in West Agder and Hordaland will be valuable also for Rogaland. The culture in Rogaland is to trust yourself and the environment around one and to be self-helped as far as possible — a very valuable property in a regional culture. But when the county sends such large values out of the county in the form of taxes, taxes and goods, it is natural that the residents ask if the county should expect something similar. The idea of a university in Rogaland is one example of innovation in this government. It goes against quality requirements deciding whether the Stavanger University will get such a status, and I have good faith that it will happen within a few years. The marble also needs new buildings. There is a documented need of 30,000 m2, so I hope the Minister will find room for planning funds in the current year, in view of the construction start next year. Business development in Rogaland is now becoming the home of too little transfers within the SND system. I would also like to claim that the part of corporation tax that is now transferred to the state is right, there are enough incentives for municipalities to get their inhabitants housing and work to compete for their inhabitants' choice of housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e284	It's always nice to hear representatives who are obviously proud of the places they come from, even though I think that the selection of what you were most afraid of, or if you think you got poor counting, was perhaps a little selective. However, the underlying features of the income system are some basic elements, which it is important to focus on in the future in order to change. I am pleased that the Council of State said in its reply that the ambition regarding the revenues of the municipalities was still to raise the tax rate to 50 pst. It will help those tax-intensive municipalities that have been badly out of the income system. The meaning of the conversion of corporation tax was just to increase the income tax of the municipalities, and then it is a bit striking that the proportion of tax revenue to the municipalities actually fell the following year, so until now the Danish Government has not shown that it is this direction of its policy. The main problem with the income system is that with the implementations we have done, for example: that the Rattsø proposals were not fully implemented – of course not all parts are necessarily perfect – we see, among other things. that the special discretionary means, the so-called loss compensation, do not in practice allow us to implement what was thought to be implemented. It hits Rogaland County, but Stavanger Municipality, for example. So here, there's also inequality in relation to who wins and loses within Rogaland. The most important thing is to keep the principal lines of how an income system should be in the future. We believe that it should more closely reflect the value creation, and will come back to it in a separate interpellation in March. We believe, like the Progress Party, that removing company taxes was the wrong way to go in relation to economic development. I don't think you can ignore the fact that there is a need to have an income system that balances income also for those municipalities that have large tax revenues during certain periods. I think maybe Rogaland County and the municipalities of Rogaland now come into a period when they will experience that there may be a guarantee of income through the system that does not cause the service provision to fall dramatically when the revenues fall. It is known what pressure it is on parts of the maritime industries, which are not least a major taxpayer to the Rogaland municipalities. The problems of the interpellation are important; the selection of criteria may be a little special. The largest export state is currently More and Romesdal, with Hordaland in second place and Rogaland first in third place, so we can always discuss which criteria to choose to say who contributes most to the value creation in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e295	The interpellant points to a current problem that may not be as similar to the interpellant as the interpellant suggested. Societal development depends on our continuous and good value creation. For the Central Party, it is essential that conditions are made available to enable this value creation to take place throughout the country. This is simply a necessity, as the resources on which the value added is to be made are scattered across our whole country. Most of the value creation takes place in District Norway, while the secondary value of this value creation flows far on to the big community. One of the clearest examples of this is in power generation. I think it's right that the whole community will benefit from this value creation, but it won't be right if the geographical area that is the basis for this value creation is not to have reasonable gains again on efforts and resources that are being exploited. That thought was, among other things, the background to the conversion of corporate tax, which would lead to a return of large-group government tax revenue to District Norway, where perhaps the value creation was based. The centre party sees cohesion and distribution as important, while it is important that the valuers have something left. The centre party also considers it important to recognise the link between high activity levels in several sectors in a limited geographical area and negative displacement patterns. We know that too much pressure in some areas creates problems that are not just solved by increasing appropriations. Too strong growth in some areas over a limited period of time leads to problems, as the interpellant also pointed out in its article. It is difficult to take into account the growth problem, but it should be taken into account, I agree. At the same time, it is equally important to take account of the opposite when it comes to reduction and reduction. I do not ignore the fact that Rogaland would have had a greater share of the transfers, but it should be able to rectify something of which, among other things. by including several earmarked grants. It is also right to note, and it is right to realize, that it may be expensive, but equally necessary, with scattered settlement, both for a total emergency and for the sake of continued future value creation. We know, among other things: large portions of future value creation will take place in Northern Ireland, where salmon transport is currently hampered by poor E6 standards. As far as the road sector is concerned, I think it is wrong to look unilaterally at the car density and the population. Of greater importance are the number of kilometres of road length, climate and weather conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e310	I believe that this interpellation is characterized by the fact that the problem we really have is quite different from what is being addressed, namely that those who earn the most – whether it be private wealth or wealth in a geographical area – should have more, that they should have the wealth seam. The problem is that we do not properly address our important societal tasks, namely how to get to a good school, good care for the elderly, good health and good environmental policy, and prioritise it, so that it actually becomes money for this, that it is well cared for. Achieving the important societal tasks – which are important for all parts of the country – should have a major priority, rather than such a ‘when the crib is empty, bit the horses’ tactics, to which the Progress Party is now adding. The main problem is that services in the public sector are underfunded. Another problem is that after a while, there is a huge increase in the distribution of bias between private wealth and I don't want to say public poverty, because it's not right yet, but public offers are too bad. Public services are therefore given a kind of secondary stamp; they are not going to be good enough. And I'm sure there's a special experience in Rogaland, where there's a lot of private wealth, and you feel very dissatisfied with the public services you get. We've also heard the same thing from Oslo and Akershus and the areas around here, sailing about the county rapporteur jokingly saying that when he has a visit from the districts, he is told that you don't see the distress laughing at you when you drive through Asker and Bærum. You probably don't do that in Rogaland either. But the problem here is that you can't take the wealth you have and use it for what you think is important. And I see it so that the interpellant says through his post that it's more important that people in Rogaland are doing well enough than others are. It also violates a national consensus on this. When you look at this standard difference, it's probably particularly horrifying in the areas of the country from which the interpellant comes, and in this area. But one of the problems here is also centralization. And if the distribution mechanisms in the income system are now weakened, which is now strong – to be discussed, and there may be reason to look at them – will you not further strengthen the centralisation mechanisms? You will then reinforce the problems you have in central areas when it comes to housing, when it comes to transportation, when it comes to municipal services – that is, all of these areas that we are concerned with are going to be good enough and, as I understand from the point of view of the interpellant, are not good enough in Rogaland. It could be interesting to have a debate about what value creation really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e321	This is a debate where it is possible to draw long lines. I was in the county policy in Rogaland from 1975 to 1987, and every year, as surely as we were to have Christmas tables, the debate on the lack of allocation of central resources came to Rogaland. The fact that there are long lines in this debate, that this is a well-known issue, does not mean that it is less important that the debate be reopened, and I think this is a good opportunity to put the spotlight on important issues that may seem to be negative to Rogaland. However, let it be said that in the government's policy there are many positive elements that show the willingness to use the whole country, and that are positive, among other things. for Rogaland. The new attitude of the Government towards the idea of universities in Rogaland is very important, and Jan Simonsen is one of those who have supported this commitment, which is completely different from what the previous governments have had. It's also an interesting reflection that's made around the fact that Rogaland seems to be coming badly out of a system that goes on that so many funds are earmarked. I think it's important, as the government says, that one gets increased the free resources of the municipalities, and I look forward to that being a positive contribution to the problem we're discussing today. I also record that the Government has taken action regarding the revision of the DU area, which means that five rogaland municipalities that need incentives have gained an improved status. The police coverage in the relevant areas raised by Jan Simonsen is an important question, and the background that I brought with me the Minister of Justice both to Haugesund and to Sandnes was to familiarize him with the current issues they have there. These are special issues, such as: related to MC crime. The Minister of Justice has stated that the knowledge he has gained in this area will determine when to distribute posts across the various police districts. Otherwise, this is a discussion that is a little different from what we have in the Committee on Energy and the Environment, where Rogaland is well represented. Every year when we deal with our budget in this Chamber, it is said that Rogaland is heavily distributed by means of funds. I don't think so. I mean, Rogaland gets his share. But it is right that in the last few years, when it comes to liming watercourses, cleaning up pollution in railway tracks, different cultural projects, etc., we have the power to step up efforts that have been beneficial to Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e339	The representative Jan Simonsen is right about Rogaland's position as a treasurer. Simonsen's presentation, however, becomes too simple and violates the income-sequential solidarity principle at the bottom of framework transfers to municipalities. If transfers to the road sector were to be based on e.g.: the number of cars in the individual counties, as suggested by Simonsen, would result in an accelerated centralisation in which the districts would be severely damaged. I am also of the opinion that, in the context of the Norwegian transport plan, there has to be a great deal more funding for Rogaland than is currently available in the draft consultation. Several have been involved in that review of the municipal committee now wanting the income system, and then I would like to recall what the majority, the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right and SV, say, that the aim must be to achieve a somewhat more even distribution of the total income of the municipal sector, with the intentions of the Rattsø Committee. I don't think I'm going to be able to turn this back on for the sake of the Rogaland municipalities. I think it is important that government and enlargement for a state that Rogaland carefully thinks about how far one can draw the trap within the solidarity income system before it clears up the understanding among local politicians and among the population. The municipalities of Rogaland have their special problems to deal with, while the counties of the county also have to take care of their interests. An important aspect of the overall state allocation to Rogaland is the coordinating responsibility of the Government for what is happening in the areas of the various departments. I encourage the Minister of State to bring him back to the College of Government. In several fields, this may indicate that Rogaland is coming out badly. An example may be in the cultural sector, where it is of great national value that Utstein Kloster is maintained. For at least ten years, a battle has been in vain, and the state of the monastery is now almost catastrophic. As for the police coverage in Rogaland, I agree with Jan Simonsen's presentation. This gives us both the opportunity to continue working on our work in the Justice Committee. But I feel that when, in the autumn, we get the case about the future division of police districts in the country, we have to look closely at Rogaland, if it is not possible to free administrative resources for more police in the streets, more police among the audience. Could it be right that someone, for example, Do two major police administrations have a few kilometres apart, as is the case with Rogaland and Stavanger police districts today? Otherwise, finally, a little comment on what Gunnar Kvassheim was into, where he tries to doubt what the different parties think about the university plans in Rogaland. That's where I see the rogaland bench standing together on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e356	It is probably not a coincidence that there are just representatives from Rogaland and Akershus who seem to be most active in this debate. Interpellant problems could well have been raised from Akershus’ point of view, with the exception of the assessment of oil revenues. Maybe we don't have exactly the same potential there. But I think we also represent a great deal of value creation in our country. I'm going to say that in this room we contribute value creation, although it's not always as easy to sell. The cost of capital, which was one of the elements that the interpellant brought into the debate, is not given any reference in the income system. I hope that when we are going to take this up again in full width in the context of the municipal economic proposal, we can also emphasize this. From a historical point of view, the treatment of the income system was initially reasonably determined by the fact that former head of the municipal committee, Roger Gudmundseth, during a visit to Akershus in the previous period, indicated that no municipalities would lose in the conversion of the income system. It's kind of been like this until today. I think we're going to catch up with many of these challenges that lie in a transformation of the system, we have to be willing to address some of the issues that the representative Simonsen also raised. For Akershus, the move is just one of these major challenges. In order to deal with the sometimes bad economy also in the achershus municipalities, it is important to get to where we need the funds most. I believe that long-term depletion of the municipal economy both in some Rogaland municipalities and in the achershus municipalities has contributed to the challenges tumbling up. This applies in areas such as the maintenance of municipal property and the visible inside the classrooms of the schools. The challenges lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e367	There's a very topical problem the interpellant is dealing with. The problems described in Rogaland, we also have in Akershus. I am pleased that the interpellant mentioned Akershu County, and that the council also did so. Unlike the representative Karin Andersen from Hedmark and SV, who has seen things on her way through Asker and Bærum that she does not like, it is good that at least district representatives have an understanding of these problems. The representative of the Progress Party asked what was wrong with Rogaland. Then I want to ask what is wrong with Akershus, because, as the representative Simonsen pointed out correctly, Akershus County is actually the worst of all states in terms of income per person. is resident in transfers from the State or, more precisely, in restitutions from the State. I understand the problems and challenges of the districts, but central strikes like Akershus also have their problems. Population developments in Akershus are different from any other state. We've had 7 pst. Population growth per year years, and the number of older people over 80 years is growing three times as much as in any other state. This means that we need a lot of new hospitals for treatment, we need more secondary schools, and we also need more road development to improve the environment and conditions for the population and for the business community. Akershus only gets 83 pst. of the national average of returnees from the country. The department itself says Akershus should have 90 pst. to be able to solve the problems in the areas I have mentioned. That's 500 million. kr per. years. If Akershus had got it, we could have done the problems a long time ago. Now it's 300 million. NOK in deficit. As I said, I am pleased that the Council of State mentioned Akershus in its statement, and I hope that I can interpret it so that the Government will actually look at the special problems this county has. There is a lot of milk and honey produced in Akershus – that is absolutely right. The value creation is great. It benefits other parts of the country. Akershus likes to share with other counties and municipalities, but not in such a way that the population of Akershus has a lower supply of education, health and transport than the rest of the country. We just have to get a fairer distribution of income. Akershus has to keep more of what's created in the county, so that we have an opportunity to solve these problems. I hope the Council of State can confirm that he will look at Akershus County in particular, and that in the context of the municipal economic proposition we will have a review of the income system and the criteria for the allocation of funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e384	Karin Andersen wants the 'Robin Hood principle' in the municipal sector, that is, to take from the rich and give to the poor. And that could be nice. It's clear that it's within the SV's model, but we in Rogaland think it's a little too strong. When we gathered Norway into a kingdom in Hafrsfjord, we were aware that we had to give some food to the people we gathered, but that we were going to feed them as much as we have done, that we seem to be going a little too far. In the case of growth in Rogaland, it is on average 1 pst. This creates a need for investment in the infrastructure estimated at approx. 200,000 per year. housing. With regard to the income system itself and its criticism, it is true that the design of income balancing has contributed to the local tax base becoming too small, the transitional arrangements are complicated, it takes a long time before the changes in the critical values are fully realised, and calculations of the self-financing rate complicate the system, with unintended distribution effects. The two main functions of the system, the balancing function and the revenue function, conflict easily with each other. The aim here must be to allow municipalities to retain a greater share of their tax revenues, to reduce the use of earmarked grants, to remove the transitional arrangements, to update current income balancing to the real population for the financial year and to introduce a growth factor in the income system that emphasises the real needs of the community for investment in social and technical infrastructure. We in Rogaland are also pleased that we are finally going to have a university after a lot of fighting, but it must not be at the expense of transfers to the transport sector. We can't do that. In fact, the income system can be characterised as follows: taking a dose of income balancing, a little district policy, a large dose of expenditure balancing, a couple of transitional arrangements, decorating everything with compensation for everyone who loses on justice – and tilting, then we have the transfer system to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e399	I want to start from the post of Leif Lund from the Workers' Party. He wondered why a representative of a party who wants to put down the county councils could be so concerned about getting a reasonable return of funds to Rogaland County. It's like we politicians have to start from today's reality. The reality is that county municipalities are responsible for hospitals, secondary schools and roads – important services for the population. Then we have a system where, through taxes, the state takes money from the county population, and then you give a little bit of money back for these purposes, but far from as much as you should have, too much of the money that should have been spent on Rogaland in relation to the value creation of Rogaland County, goes instead to help the inhabitants of other counties where you haven't been equally employed, just as good and equally capable of creating values. It should be a reasonable requirement that the citizens of a state that itself provides values through hard work, and where politicians have been able to organize business and therefore get value creation and production, get something left for this effort – that the values, at least a greater part of the values created in Rogaland, benefit Rogaland’s inhabitants. Instead, Rogaland has major health problems due to too few transfers to the regional hospital. It's really only Akershu County that is exposed to the same unfairness as Rogaland, that it's on its own that you generate quite large tax revenues, and then you have an income system that ultimately ends up getting the worst into disposable income per year. the population. So those representatives from Akershus who have spoken today and have argued in line with my argument, I just want to support. It is primarily Akershus and Rogaland who prove to be unfairly treated, compared to working hard and getting little left. The representative, Rasmussen, said that in the road sector, not only should the car density be taken into account. I agree with that. But this with car density is an important element that is too small in weight. The community makes a lot of money to dissolve traffickers. Business today loses a lot of money on the fact that the transport does not arrive and the cars are stuck in traffic, so a greater assessment of the cost-benefit is absolutely sensible in relation to the road project. Then I will finally praise one of the Councils of State, and that is the Council of State Lilletun, for the efforts he has made for our college. He has understood that a state that creates such great values and has such a productive business life must also have a university in its back. His decision to award the university to our independent doctoral degrees has been important and shows that there is at least one government council that is positive in relation to the Rogaland County. Then I look forward to the debate on the Community economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e416	I record that, with the exception of Simonsen, there is a broad consensus in this room that the income system should contribute to cohesion and distribution between municipalities, between counties and between different geographical areas. On my many journeys around the country, I have seen that hard work is being done and values are being created around the country. This is not a particular phenomenon for Rogaland, fortunately this is the situation around the country. These include: different geographical indications requiring different sizes of transfers from the country. It is not the case that transfers from the State itself are crucial for the service provision to be provided, nor is there any objective in itself. What's a goal is to have a fairly similar service offer across the country. I'm going to look at the income system, and we're going to have plenty of opportunity to discuss this in connection with the presentation of the municipal economic proposition. For what is fully decided is that the income system continues to contribute to the distribution and cohesion of different areas. There will be a need to continue this system. It is my ambition that we should increase the share of income from taxes. It won't break the principle of cohesion, but I think it has a value in itself that municipalities get to keep a maximum share of their income from taxes and not from transfers from the state. Secondly, one of the most important contributions to avoiding some of the problems associated with strong growth is the policy pursued by the Government to counteract the strong centralisation that we have seen over the years, and where, for the second consecutive year, there is a decline in regional delocalisation and reduced migration to the Oslo region, a move that has been strong throughout the 1990s and with a peak in 1997. Such strong centralisation as we had until 1997 causes press problems and, in any case, the income system poses problems for the municipalities concerned – to cope with such growth while at the same time leaving municipalities have the problems of centralisation like this. I register to my satisfaction that there is a broad consensus in the Chamber that the income system should achieve cohesion. That is also my ambition in the ongoing work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e431	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e443	A positive development in the industry shows that both the Raw Fish Act and the Fish Exports Act work as intended. Fish exports in 1998 amounted to 28.2 billion kroner. With such a figure, the fishing industry is Norway's second largest export industry after oil. The increase has also continued since 1998 and has passed NOK 30 billion. With increased marketing efforts for exports, the export value will continue to increase. An increased effort to speed up the introduction of new species, including shellfish, into Norwegian farming will make the fishing industry a future industry. 1 along the whole coast. However, the success of exploiting the potential of the fishing industry, including farming, requires a strong commitment to research and development by both the state and industry. In order to succeed, the industry must also be given better framework conditions both for fishing and for farming. New farming concessions must be prepared and come as soon as possible. Both farming and fishing are district industries, so a proper effort will be positive for the districts and provide even more finer figures for the next treatment of the raw fish law and the Fish Exports Act. Finally, the Communication states that the budget of the Committee on Exports for 1999 is 316 million. A correction has been made by the Ministry of Fisheries. The right number is going to be 341 million. NOK 316 million and not 316 million. kr. Thus, it is corrected, cf. the letter from the Ministry of Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e460	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-29.ana.ud2405e468	Then we're ready for voting. There is no voting theme in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
