ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e52	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e57	I suggest Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e62	Marit Nybakk is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk is unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e74	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e85	This is actually a very pleasant case, which shows that Norway has come a long way — much longer than any other country in the world — in providing traffic rules for the management of the very long-haul coast we have in Norway. Norway is a major geographic act, the total Norwegian area is actually 30 pst. of the European, if we include land and sea area. So there's a reason to give the ministry credit for getting this case out, which opens up opportunities to set up driving rules that will help develop this industry. Having said that, it is also important that the Ministry provides for a constructive follow-up with regard to the setting up of recognition systems for those counties and municipalities which have not yet received approved coastal zone plans, as this is a prerequisite for ensuring the development opportunities available to them and which have also been laid down by the Department as a precondition for setting up any new farming concessions and other commercial activities to be added to individual municipalities. So there I would ask the Council of State to ensure that the responsibilities of the county officials in this area are followed up constructively. It must not be the case that those areas of the country which are often the most suitable for sea cultivation should be excluded for too long in the future because this plan has not been put in place. This applies primarily to the release and restocking of crustaceans, molluscs and echinoderms for nutritional purposes. And that's a huge potential here. SINTEF and NTNU have launched figures for what future sea cultivation can bring economic strength into the state treasury, and there is only the imagination that limits it. However, we know that in areas such as lobster, for example, we currently have production in Norway at about a point in time. 100 tons. On the east coast of the United States, which has the same sea area as what we have in Norway, they are currently producing 70 000 tonnes per year. years. And we know that the international market – if in this context we limit it to Europe alone – is almost exhaustive. I also need to be allowed to underline what comes out in the draft law that the deferr gets an exclusive right to capture again organisms that are outsourced. The introduction of this industrial code is a fundamental prerequisite for the implementation of both investment, follow-up and production in an economically and environmentally sound manner. There are many people who have suggested that we will be able to see future land conflicts in this area. I don't think the father is that big for it. Here, too, coastal zone plans — approved such ones — need to take into account the possible conflicts that may arise in this area. But we have a huge geographic area to take off, and so far, there's very little to suggest that these land conflicts are going to get some considerable attention in the time to come. It's important that we view this as an exciting business development area, where we have areas that are suitable and that now need to be exploited and tested. And if we are to succeed, it is important that the Minister of Fisheries also insists that research in this area must be given a different priority – including budgetaryally – than only good wording in the form of comments and statements. Finally, it is to be noted that the majority also prefers local ties for those who are to be given the opportunity to set in motion and are to be granted rights. I record that the minority has approximated the same formulations, but that they do go a little further than what the majority does in this area. I just remind you that ESA has stated that it is necessary to land on a legislative and regulatory framework that complies with the competition rules that apply to Norway in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e104	We're lucky to have a rich resource base along our coast that can serve as a basis for, among other things. cluster construction based on the marine sector. It is worth noting that marine resources can form the basis for the development of one of the really strong industrial clusters in the Norwegian economy. The company may be associated with fishing, fishing, farming, processing and export based on Norwegian technology. In addition, we have a great potential based on the development of new industries such as biotechnology, bio-prospecting, better use of by-product, and not least the potential that is hidden in the sea that we can only expect to exist in the origin of life on earth. Well-being depends on the existence of busses and jobs in the whole country, and on the fact that we have incomes that can be distributed in a way that ensures such a development. Several have been aware of the value of our coastal zone, not least in recent times. And there are many who want to develop new business in the coastal zone at the same time as there is traditional fishing in the same areas. In addition, there is a need for space for recreation and as a quality product within travel. There may also be areas to be protected in such a way that there is no room for interference at all. There are plenty of conflicts of interest when so many actors report. Now we are lucky to have a long-distance coast, which in addition — at least on paper — has been even longer in the past. Our task is to facilitate the use of coastal zones for the benefit of the country and the population along the coast. In order to clarify the different uses, coastal zone plans need to be developed for each coastal municipality. This work has speeded up and is a matter that is high on the agenda for the time being. There is reason for us to hold up the pressure for this work to be carried out. Marine grazing laws regulate the release and restocking of crustaceans, molluscs and echinoderms for nutritional purposes. Those who are granted permission to postpone may also be granted an exclusive right to recapture the deferred species within a restricted area. It will require a willingness to risk and the ability to get started. But this part of Norwegian aquaculture is in noise peaches and will be a golden opportunity for those who want to go anew. Sea bedets may also interfere with the rights of all persons. All these interests must be weighed and taken care of in the best way possible. The environment has been given a central place in the proposal, and it is emphasised by the Ministry of Fisheries that there will be no possibility of granting permits to pasture if there is a risk of damage to the environment. Furthermore, if sea grazing in an area significantly limits other uses, this shall be taken into account when assessing whether authorisations can be granted and in the case of any restrictions to be imposed. In some cases, compensation may also be involved. It may not be so that the buffer zones around the seabed become larger than required. It is also clarified that the legal entities do not have any specific rights in these areas, but are bound by any regulation at the same time as others. There is reason to recall that anadrome and marine fishing species are out of the question, and thus conflicts of interest may be subdued. Among other things, the water column over the area can be used for traditional uses. It is important that we make effective use of the potential of coastal zones. In all respects, it must be established that it is the sea's tolerance that must be respected and that must set limits to the activity. There is reason to emphasise that the fishing industry is the second largest export industry to oil and gas and that the fisheries and aquaculture industry is based on renewable resources. It is also appropriate to stress that fisheries and aquaculture play an important role in the construction of our entire long-term country. So one might say that what's good for these industries is also good for Norway. Thus, Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries have the potential to ensure the further development of our welfare state. In some areas, we are well-developed and in the world front. In other areas, we have a potential, but it has to be developed and triggered. The common denominator for triggering the potential is research and development. We're forced to get extra funds for this purpose. There's a great and expressed will for it in the Biggest, and it has to be expressed further in the years to come. I can mention that, among other things. has been developed a strategy plan for Norwegian economies of scale spanning four years. This concludes that for this industry alone, 275 million public dollars are needed for research and development. In addition, the follow-up of the nutrition committee will be the wish to resolve the algae problem in the Norwegian fjord systems. I also hope that the Research Council and the SND will listen to the recommendations of the nutrition committee and exercise musicality in this way. Only the industry alone can secure us export income in the billions of years to come. Actually, it's about a new breeding adventure. This is about both new ideas and new crime. Skeletal nutrition can serve as an example of activities that show how to commercialise the different species that are suitable for both breeding and cultivation of seaweed. We have taken a new step on the development path for the development of Norwegian aquaculture. A law will come in place. The efficacy shall be evaluated after a few years. Before the precautionary principle shall lie at the bottom. Our task is to ensure a framework that ensures long-term management, and I think it's a great day to be aware that Norway is at the forefront when it comes to securing and developing a law that can be passed on when it comes to exploiting our coastal zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e144	Sea grazing is described by the introduction of marine, wild organisms into coastal areas where concession holders are to have exclusive rights to catch – and some compare it to the fact that landowners have sheep on pasture in the mountains. The use of benthic animals shall allow other fish in the water column to continue as before. From this seemingly harmless idea, there is the potential for significant revenues. Sea grazing is to become Norway’s seven-mile step into the new maritime adventure. A basic condition for the operation of the seabed is the exclusive right to re-capture the exposed organisms. At present, no legal regulation ensures exclusive recapitulation for the outsourced organism. Marine farming in the broadest sense, where crustaceans, various mollusks and crowbars are considered to be particularly interesting organisms, is an important part of an official nutritional effort in Norway. Species within these groups are particularly suitable for grazing on sea pastures, as they are so-called filter feeders, which exploit plankton in the sea for feed, and therefore do not necessarily require intensive feeding. Viewed in both an economic and, not least, an ecological context, this is a very important point. The organisms use and become part of the natural local food chain. Set in a larger resource context, where one has to take into account, among other things. the taxation of the populations of pelagic species as raw material for fish feed appears to be an industry that can develop in line with nature. Specific research and testing of lobster on grazing has had some good results in e.g. Rogaland in the last few years. Similar tests were carried out in Scotland a number of years ago, but there they had varying success with the catch and survival in what was called ‘lobster ranching’. In relation to land use at sea, land use outside the baseline is covered by the Law on Planning and Building. Thus, sea grazing activities must normally be subject to a planning process. In order to ensure that the operations are carried out in a veterinary and environmentally sound manner, such as: the term ‘sea grazing’ is proposed to be incorporated into the Fisheries Diseases Act for the respective preventive and remedial measures. The concept of seaweed does not benefit from scientific calibration to reality. The reality consists, inter alia, in: of the ecological framework conditions in the sea, which are largely poorly known. Some of the boldest assumptions behind the proposal for sea grazing are that sea productivity is limited by the number of juveniles, so that release will increase production. One therefore believes that extra added juvenile will give a measurable increase in catch. Similarly, it is assumed that animals being released remain calm, so that it is possible to define catch zones. However, if the animals are spreading, there may be anticipated conflicts of fishing in neighbouring areas, ecological side-effects and opportunities for low profitability. The Progress Party welcomes the new Law on the Law of the Sea and hopes that it will not be too restrictive at the start-up stage, so as to avoid suffocating potential growth food at the beginning. We also believe, and welcome, that a legislative proposal has now been put forward to ensure the necessary framework for testing and commercialising the sea grazing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e167	The Norwegian coastline and sea areas are unique. It's natural that the marine industry is pointed out as one of the main fields of activity for our future business. Marine research is one of four selected bet areas in the research. Exports from the aquaculture industry, with all that it will cover in a few years' time, are expected to exceed the value of oil and gas exports. Now only the Coastal Route needs to be developed so that transport can be efficient, economical and environmentally friendly – it may have been an aproposal. It is important that we facilitate a positive development in the marine industry. The size has previously handled the matter of Statkorn, where the conditions for farming and concessions were an important element. The Christian People's Party then contributed to the non-introduction of auctions in the award of breeding concessions, and we gave leadership to those who will receive concessions in the next award round. Today, the matter is sea grazing. The law concerns the release and recapture of crustaceans, molluscs and echinoderms. It is amazing that such animals can mean important nourishment in the future. When I was a little girl and I was sharp at the edge of the beach, things like crowballs were just beautiful. The aim of the laws is to be able to give the person who is looking, an exclusive right to recapture. It's reasonable, and it ends up with all the games. And the law's decision is also the subject of the deal. From the Christian People's Party's side, we will point to two important points that we think the plural has not given much attention to. We believe that there must be a great deal of emphasis on what the municipalities have said about granting a right. The local authorities can be involved in this process and can control development. We also believe that there must be a great deal of emphasis on localisation in the allocation of grazing rights. It is also relevant to emphasise the link with the marine sector and with traditional fisheries. The second important element is the precautionary principle. A joint committee has said that the precautionary principle must form the basis for the development of sea grazing as an industry. We think it's necessary for a non-renewal of non-renewal of species before one has more ecological knowledge of the seabed on the Norwegian coast. Today we have major problems associated with the Russian crab in Finnmark. In the Oslo Earth, there is fear of exposing American hummar to alienate the original. The Russian crab can be shown to create new values, but today it causes huge losses to the fishermen in these areas as damage to the ship. Experience with the release of new species in fresh water shows that when a species is introduced, it can go wrong. In a water, the risk of spreading in the first row is related to inlet and outlets, i.e. quite limited, but in the sea there are no limits. That's why it's very important that we're leading were and not seen species in places where we don't know how it will affect nature and the environment around. The entire committee has agreed that it would be natural to carry out an evaluation of the system of seabeds after a few years to assess the impact on, among others. the biological deficiency and consequences for all-man-rights and other economic activities. It thinks the Christian People's Party is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e188	It's positive that we now get an opening to drive sea grazing and for a new exploitation of our coast. Many people have been waiting for this, and it has been necessary to wait a long time. That's because there's a lot of counter-conceptions. There is reason to be careful when one now opens up a new mode of operation. But there are large areas along the coast where there are no conflicts, and when a person limits this so that it does not apply to fish, at least not initially, the counter-representations are smaller. The law shall apply to crustaceans, molluscs and echinoderms. It is quite close to thinking about the areas that are already occupied by aquaculture, whether in shellfish or trout farming facilities, which can first be used, but there are also other areas. An assessment shall be made when a person has gained a little more experience. We had the Norwegian Fisheries Team in for a hearing. They thought that there was no need for any of their own marine grazing laws, and that this should be incorporated into the common fisheries laws. The fishing team was afraid of conflicts with traditional fishing. That is what I and the Center Party believe that there must be a great deal of emphasis on. As regards the local treatment of these applications, we need to identify the considerations to be taken into account. The existence of an approved coastal zone plan must not be limited to the general rule but must be a requirement. It must also apply to the distribution of concessions within the aquaculture sector. Local treatment must also ensure that a person gets the right balance from all-man rights, which are important along the coast. So to the topic of local ownership in relation to future use of our coast. I believe that local ownership is very important also to avoid land conflicts, and that there will be local willingness to dispose of land for exclusive use for a few. If there is a local ownership that benefits from this, it benefits the branch and the municipality. Then people are willing to accept that some area is occupied and is used by a few. The case rapporteur, Ivar Kristiansen, also said that the majority wants it to be local ownership, but that we have to take care of ESA, that is how I understood him. However, the comments of the majority, stressing that those who may be restricted by general law must also benefit from the activities that are being established, say the following: ‘This can be done by giving priority to localisation by allocation if this overall results in a better socio-economic performance.’ There are quite a few reservations before the local stakeholder is prioritised after this. The central batches write as follows: ‘Among the applicants who can demonstrate that they can operate environmentally and economically soundly, localisation must be the main criterion where there are several applicants on the same site.’ There's a difference between wanting and wanting to. In a few years' time, there will be a huge difference between the two options, whether you follow the majority's observation fully and allow local ties for the owners to come to the end, or you follow what is stated in the comments from the centre parties, that that is what should be given the highest priority. I sincerely want this industry to be locally anchored, not only in the beginning, but also later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e216	I will first address the proposals from SV that have been distributed. SV feels that this is a very difficult matter. There is no doubt that there is a need for a law, but we are very much in doubt if this is the right one. Environmental considerations are the most important. Where there is a risk of harmful effects on the environment, authorisation cannot be granted, it is stated in the law. That's the right starting point. The problem is that the Department of Maritime Affairs says that the impact on the ecosystem is not clear, and that clarifying the environmental impact is important for the management of the law. The marine research institute has pointed out this lack of knowledge. And the Ministry of the Environment provided in the consultation round that this should be done in the proportion we are now dealing with, and that is not done. So the research that has to be the basis for this going well, we don't have it in place. In the configuration, the Committee calls for the strengthening of research efforts in the marine sector. But the question is, is it in the budget this year? Is there room for that? When's it gonna come? And when do we know enough? In spite of this, one is going to be open to the ocean. One will even allow for the release of non-indigenous species. It cannot be accepted by SV, because there is a great risk to the environment. I also want to ask the Council of State to decide whether it is really supposed to take the risk of launching alien species. There are too many ugly stories about it that we are going to take such a risk – although I think the environmental protection authorities have also learned from them. There is also little justification in the proposition why extensive sea grazing should not be allowed under the pollution law. ‘Feeding or treatment of organisms will probably require permission under the Pollution Act’ is stated in the Proposition – ‘probably’ is unfortunately no good and safe guidance in environmental policy and ecology. One of the security mechanisms to regulate that this does not become a major conflict, or rather clarify some of the conflicts and delimit the area, is that an adopted coastal zone plan should be in place before it can be opened up to sea grazing. But those who are going to adopt these plans are, of course, just like us as lawmakers, as the practitioners, as the controllers and other authorities are for the necessary knowledge that the Government says must be at the root of, and that they are now lacking. There is also a need for a more detailed analysis of all-man rights considerations. It is also very detailed in the proposition, and several of the hearing bodies have been concerned about it. This is the main reason why SV also suggests that the principal aspects of this should be dealt with. The forgery industry, as it has been pointed out here today, and as has been said to have a great future, now operates under the Breeding Act, which at least we have been informed by the Department, so that it will be fully possible to continue with it, sail if we do not adopt a law today that we believe it is too early for. We have seen that if you do not adopt a law today, you will be able to graze the sea either under the Breeding Act or under the Saltwater Fishing Act – at least we have been informed about it by the Department. And it is not as restrictive as this new seabed law is when it comes to the environment. The question is, do you know enough? With regard to the right of recapitulation, which is probably what makes people want to start with sea grazing, it is guaranteed exclusively in this new law, because without such a law, there is no chance of re-establishing what you put out – at least there are others who can do it. So without a law, we don't think the seabed industry will grow fast. With one law, more will start. Some of the requirements will be more stringent, but conflicts with the rights of all will increase. And the doubt that you actually have good enough knowledge to deal with this, will still be too much. If SV had been in the committee, we would have tried to get the law back with some comments about what we thought had to be in place. SV is going to vote against the law, but we still want to ask the Grandfather to consider the proposals we have made, because we believe that at least they are absolutely necessary if the law is to be passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e242	Karin Andersen has addressed the three proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e245	Law on Sea Pasture is a forward-looking law that facilitates new opportunities to realise the value creation potential of the aquaculture industry. It is therefore with great satisfaction that I see an overall committee in favour of the proposal. There has been a significant technological development in the aquaculture industry in recent years that offers opportunities for new forms of operation. The regulation of breeding activities provided by the Breeding Act is no longer fully adapted to these developments. The proposal for the Law on Sea Pasture provides for a dynamic adaptation to future technological solutions and opportunities in aquaculture. In the first instance, seabeds are most relevant for pectinidae and lobster bottom culture, but may also be relevant for a wider range of species in the near future. Sea grazing activities will have an impact on alternative uses of sea area and will therefore have to compete with other uses interests in the area in question. The legislative proposal takes this into account to a large extent. Concessions shall focus on the social benefits and adverse effects of the action. In this assessment, the relationship with the rights of all persons is central. In addition, in exceptional cases, the right to compensation has been protected by universal service. Allemansrechten has been given a central place in the entire bill, and I will seek in the development of the industry to avoid conflicts of interest. The proposal aims at clarifying the various interests of use prior to concession award. Allocating rights are also ensured by the possibility of time-limiting concessions so that the activities can be discontinued if society sees itself better served by a different use of the site. I am pleased that the Committee supports the proposal's regime for balancing the different interests, and in particular the emphasis on the right of all persons. I think it is very important that marine grazing activities have a positive impact on the community and the business community of the region. This will be a separate concession award moment and will also be central to determining the operating conditions. It is important that sea pastures have legitimacy in the municipality. On the other hand, consideration will be given to whether the municipality has organised aquaculture in the form of coastal zone plans when deciding where to locate the establishment. I think that sea grazing could develop into an important industry for coastal communities, in line with other forms of farming. The environment has been given a central place in the law both in the award of concession and in the operation of sea grazing activities. The law imposes an absolute prohibition on the authorisation of sea grazing where there is a risk of harmful effects on the environment. In addition, a prudent approach will be used in the management of the industry. For example, no authorisation for the release of non-indigenous species will be granted until we have more knowledge of the ecological conditions on the coast. Before business can start, the knowledge base must be clarified, inter alia, in relation to: environment, public health and economic conditions. The marine research institute is now working to further explore the environmental conditions for the start-up of sea grazing activities. In parallel, the Directorate for Fisheries has begun to prepare regulations for the Law on Sea grazing with a view to future regulation of allocation and operation. The rules will be sent at general consultation, so that all key stakeholders can be consulted on the proposal. Finally, I would like once again to express my satisfaction that the Business Committee supports the principles of the bill and the recommendation of the Ministry of Fisheries. This is an important step towards further developing the aquaculture industry and ensuring Norway’s export income in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e266	Today we are dealing with an innovation in Norwegian legal history. It is a completely new principle that we introduce into Norwegian law, namely the right to reserve a sea area for private business interests. I don't think the Storting is fully aware of what we're about to give up on. For the first time in history, a law shall now be adopted conferring on a company the exclusive right to set up a species in order to harvest that species exclusively in the area where this species is released. The Committee says that consideration should be given to species which are also migratory. That's right! There we are at the heart of when the law is passed, as it is likely to be, because this law is adopted against the voices of SV and me, precisely for reasons of principle. What prevents – put on the tip, speaking time is too short for me to elaborate – that the entire economic zone can be on sale in the future when the law of exposed fish and catch comes? This is about the sale of the sea, for the first time in history. I'll explain it in more detail. We don't have to go further than to sell salmon concessions. Auction or not auction – we have not yet adopted it, but the ministry has proposed it and will implement it. We have adopted an income of NOK 1 1⁄2 billion only on the sale of salmon concessions next year. It's in the state budget! It has been adopted at Stortinget – DKK 1 1⁄2 billion in income. It's not a distancer. So the principle of selling the sea we've already adopted, and now we're going to legislate it as well. It states that local ownership and that it should benefit the local population. It's not mentioned in one word that we're part of the EEA. Everything we do in Norway, and everything that is auctioned/sold, is to be tendered throughout the EEA territory. That's not mentioned! I'm just saying it as a thoughtmaker. Local ownership? After a limited liability company has been formed, there is no longer any control! The Tiger funds in the United States can suddenly own the sea area that the local limited liability company has acquired. How is this to be prevented? I'll say a little bit about the law. This is a typical law of attorney. As in all other fisheries legislation managed by the Ministry of Fisheries, there are laws on powers. Anyone who has read the statement and the paragraphs will see that it says that the department can arrange, the department can give the statements, the department can adopt regulations, the department, the department, the department, the department, paragraphs, paragraphs, paragraphs, paragraphs. So the size gives the sitting government the power to do whatever it wants. We experience it in the fisheries. Regulations are being enforced, it is being enforced and it is being judged – the same authority constitutes all three bodies. The fishermen are totally innocent! If a decision is taken by the fisheries director, e.g.: on the withdrawal of their fishing rights, it cannot be taken to the court because the Stortinget has given the ministry authority. The judge can't judge, because that's when he judges the Stortinget. The judge is prevented from judging for the benefit of the person handling such a case. We must be aware of this when we adopt this law!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 194]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e296	The majority of the Industry Committee – in this case the majority consists of all the parties represented in the Committee, with the exception of the Christian People’s Party – are included in this position in order to amend the provisions on public holiday recreation in fisheries in Section 13 of the Law of 3 June 1983 No. 40 on saltwater fishing n.e.c. Current rules, and their exceptions, are detailed, difficult to access and not always adapted to reality. What according to the law appears as a general rule and the current law on holiday recreation has also been modified and amended by regulations. The fishing industry has long asked for a comprehensive review of these rules with a view to simplification. On the basis of the opinions expressed in the consultation rounds, it is now proposed to repeal the rules of the SWF. These are proposed replaced by an authorisation to lay down rules on fishing and fishing on or in connection with Sundays and holidays. it is in order to ensure the rational and appropriate exercise, where it is intended to take account of the general public holiday peace, or where there are other specific circumstances; A note on public holidays in fishing, including the review and evaluation of the applicable rules and temporary derogations, has been out for consultation. In the consultation note, the Ministry states that social, practical, regulatory and religious considerations are still relevant in the evaluation of seasonal fisheries. In addition, it should be borne in mind in principle that no stricter rules should be laid down for the fishing profession than for other professions. Developments have shown that when questions have arisen in recent years to make further derogations from the provisions, there have been mainly practical and economic considerations on the basis of which they are based. The consultation round shows that a clear majority of the hearing bodies that have taken a stand are in favour of repealing today’s rules. I would like to stress that by lifting today's rules, one will achieve that the fishing fleet will be able to set up its activities so that it will be better able to deliver its catch at that time and of the quality of the fishing industry and market demand. It is the social partners and the industry that need to come up with arrangements to ensure a balanced working time for each person. I have also noticed that this will contribute to simplified legislation and a certain amount of financial and administrative savings for those authorities that have verified compliance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e309	The government proposal is a result of a necessary cleanup in today's law. We're also written on that from the Christian People's Party's side. The government itself has pointed out three different ways in which we can correct today's situation. One is the proposal of the Government, which is to reflect the principle of sacrilege. This means that instead of the general rule being that there is a holiday satisfaction, the general rule is that there is free fishing even on Sundays and weekends, but that one can provide a requirement for peace in connection with Sundays and holidays. But the government itself has pointed to two other options. One thing is to keep the law of the day, but to clean up the law. This proposal we in the Christian People's Party believe is the best. The coastal fishing team is quite clear in its statement. They don't want to open free fishing on Sundays and holidays. They indicate that it is generally accepted by the fishermen that there is peace on Sundays and holidays. The coastal fishing team points out that fish need peace, especially during spawning, and that weekend satisfaction will lead to less intensive fishing and thus less depletion of resources. The coastal fishing team also points to the fishermen’s work situation. There is reason to ask why the Labour Party does not see the parallel of the debate on Sunday-open shops and their situation in relation to it. I see no good reason why fishermen do not have the same need for protection in the form of a law that they have added to the commercial industry. Fish are a limited resource. There is competition between fishermen to get their share of the total quota. In such a situation, it is not easy to take time off on Sunday and know that others are at sea and pick up fish. One may be forced to work on Sunday to get its share of the total quota, even if one really does not. This means that fishermen may, in fact, be more dependent on the regulation of holiday satisfaction than other professional groups. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have put great emphasis on this nobleman from the Coastal Fishery Team. For the Christian People's Party, the very principle of holiday peace is also important. We don't want an evolution where in more and more areas it is accepted that the usual thing is that Sunday is going to be like any other day. Our law should fence on Sunday as a special day. We all need at least one different day of the week. At Lofotposten I found an interesting interview with a fisherman. He says this in the following way: ‘I fear this may help more young people stay away from fishing. All professional groups want at least one day off to get back on track. Eliminating the holiday satisfaction will increase the pressure on fishermen, and may compromise safety, says fisherman Tore Østeig in Stamsund.’ It's more interesting in that interview, but I'm not going to give up on the Stortinget right now. But all in all, I think this is a good example of how to simplify without a mirror turning a principle that has been good before. With this, I take up the proposal in the vote by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e333	Jon Lilletun has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e336	First of all, let me say that I think the rapporteur has explained in a neat manner the reasons for simplifying and putting in place a code that is more consistent with the practical state as it is, and as it has evolved also in the fishing industry. This is to adapt the practice to the reality of the day, and I think it is most necessary at a time when many people have problems dealing with the legislation and regulations of the profession and have a strong need for simplification in this area as well. Therefore, with some wonder I see that the representative Lilletun and the Christian People's Party choose to place such great emphasis on this matter, by distinguishing themselves from the majority in the way they do. This is nothing but contributing to a society that is evolving – in line with the reality we are in. I believe that the representative Lilletun should also get the impression that today's fishermen would like to have even more days to fish on than is the case today. I think the general attitude is that the quotas to fish, which are regulated so to those degrees in advance, are so small that if the possibility had been there to have several days at sea, they would of course have wanted it. But the representative Lilletun has chosen to listen to one of the parties who has spoken out that has been skeptical of the change in the law. It's a little surprising that one actually chooses to stigmatise the coastal fishing fleet, which has to be the party that gets affected if one is to deal with the proposals of the Christian People's Party. Today's everyday life is nothing but that the seagoing fleet is often out for more than one week, it's two, three and maybe even more weeks at sea. It is therefore a kind of selective practice of a law – when one would rather go the opposite way of giving further exemptions from a law and regulation that we have today – which is the goal of the Christian People's Party. Nor can I fail to say that there would be a strange practice of the law and regulation we have, not least when you choose to go into how to handle the ten bids, to ensure the protection of the holiday. We have a society today that has evolved in a direction that means that it will not be practicable or desirable to pick out one profession that needs special protection. At least you can't do what the representative Lilletun does, to define the fishermen unisonively as employees. In fact, most of these things have to be affected, self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e345	The President will draw attention to the fact that the scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that Odelstinget, once this matter has been settled, cancel the negotiations and set a new meeting at noon. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e348	The majority in this setting that has been presented, I think at least I'm not in line with the coastal fishing fleet. I guess I'm the only one in the room who's been running all kinds of sea fishing as well as coastal fishing. With the holiday satisfaction we have had, we have had something concrete to deal with. We've had a law that has regulated the activity. Of course, there have been exceptions for the sea fishing fleet, which travel outside the trawl-free zones and beyond the trawl limit. You've been able to fish around the clock for weeks on tap. That's the way it has to be, and it's always been. But when you get ashore, and talk about a lot of different boats that run with fixed gear, especially in the seasonal fisheries, there must be little order. You have to have a system so you know when people are at sea. You've had a Sunday when you've been able to land and get back to work, as Lilletun pointed out. There's one thing I don't think the committee is aware of, and it's that when you're in a field with a lot of use, everyone has to be at sea at the same time to take care of their use. You cross it and you cross it, and you have tool collisions. So when the holiday satisfaction is lifted, everyone has to be at sea if they have fixed tools, whether they like it or not. It's a law order that's now being passed. Those who want Sunday off cannot take Sunday off. It is quite obvious that this law must have a derogation for the major seasonal fisheries, such as loot fishing. In that case, the Law must also be amended; it is an independent law. There must still be holiday food during the loot fishing. I do not see the fact that it is possible to carry out a loofot fishing without holiday food. It'll be utopia. I have to refer to the post that I had in the previous case. Once again, this is with reflection and power laws. Derogations shall be adopted here for special areas, for special fisheries, and in such a way as to seek to safeguard the interests of operators. Because it is the exercisers for whom this should be useful. I must honestly say that I do not agree with Ivar Kristiansen when he says that there is a need to get the fish out of the sea that makes you have to keep up the whole week in silence. With the small quotas that the boat has, they manage to fish their quota without using Sunday. That's not where the problem lies. There are long working days at sea, and I know a lot of chess fishermen who don't appreciate fishing even on Sundays. And this point of administrative savings – yes, I would like to get a more detailed account of that, especially in those times when it is said that fishing is delivered both night and day and black, and so now it is also to be delivered on Sundays, which were well-kept for the past. So in terms of control savings, I'll see how it turns out in the budget of the Council of State when he's done with the first test year. So a little bit to the religious aspect, on which Ivar Kristiansen was in. I have to remind you that Jesus was also a fisherman, as the Bible at least shows. But without taking a stand on the religious aspects of this, I agree with Lilletun that sacrilege may have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower.ana.ud1244e363	With these final words in Case No. 2 is the morning meeting over, and a new meeting is scheduled for 2 p.m. 6:00 p.m. [[Fooding, see page 196]]
