ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e35	Let me first say – although I’m not going to make it a big deal – that I’m a little surprised that the Prime Minister said in his post that I had no reason to say that the three no-parties are now speaking differently about the EU than they were doing in 1994. I can only mention the spin-offs with regard to the Schengen Agreement and the veterinary agreement, and I could present a long list in addition to that – just so it is said. Otherwise, it is to be noted that the Norwegian government representatives are much less clear than the Austrian Chancellor has been in the case of Haider’s possible participation in the Austrian government. Viktor Klima said yesterday, I quote: ‘He who does not recognise that Holocaust has taken place is not worthy of any office either nationally or internationally.’ I fully agree with that, and it should be established before he possibly enters the government. After that, it could be too late. What the right radicals are running on is spreading fear of alienation. It's against European cooperation. That's to be against globalisation, that is. play on the negative aspects of globalisation. Globalization is here. It is not useful to lift it, for example. because it is driven by technological changes. We don't want to stop it either, because it has positive sides, but it's also quite obvious that it has a lot of negative sides that need to be aware of, and that it is now possible to play for the right radicals, and so far also for them far out on the left. Measures need to be implemented, inter alia: against the free flow of capital, which creates major problems. Proposals are available, including: the proposal made by Nobel Prize winner James Tobin on a tax on currency transactions, so as to remove the most speculative movements in this area. I'm a little disappointed that neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Foreign Affairs came up with this fundamental theme of international policy now. An important part of globalisation is the construction of regional cooperation. What we see is that countries within certain geographical regions merge to cope better with global reality – as Europe does through cooperation in the EU. But we also see that the same thing happens on the American continent and in Asia. Our common friend Shimon Peres is talking about building a regional Middle East, following the pattern of Europe. Dealing with this regionalisation, especially in Europe, is the foremost foreign policy task for Norway today. It should be a matter of course that we hold a continuous debate on our relationship with the European Union, including whether we are served with membership, or whether we should continue to adapt. We have to have this openness. It is necessary to maintain our freedom of action. We also need to have transparency about what the future can do. I have to remind you that we've only had great surprises in the last ten years. No one could predict that the Berlin Wall would fall. Someone said that when it fell, the story was so to speak, capitalism had won, it couldn't be new. But it's happened so much that we have the feeling that we've lived 50 years ago. We know that a lot is going to happen in the next ten years. 14 new countries have been accepted as candidate countries in the EU. Over the next 10 years, the EU may have borders with the Middle East, the Black Sea and Russia. The question we have to ask ourselves is, how are we going to deal with this reality? There is no alternative but to hold an open and reasoning debate/dialogue on this continuously. I'm glad Erik Solheim responded positively to that invitation. We need yes- and no-people to hold a debate on this continuously, and we cannot keep away from the essential question. Even if we're not going to conclude tomorrow, it's necessary to see if it can also be an alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e55	Developments in Russia are, of course, fundamental to Europe. This has also been a central theme in the orientation of the Foreign Minister and in many articles. The right has been responsible for an active policy across our neighbourhood, including Russia, throughout the 1990s. I myself have, according to my ability to take part in this. The basis for all policies must always be to accept facts. For Russia, developments are now going in the wrong direction in an accelerated pace on a number of areas. If one is taking, for example: The press/media, which is a good barometer for democratic development, showed that during the 1993 parliamentary elections they behaved very well. They saw it as a task to communicate what the various parties stood for, and they acted very neatly and fairly. In the same way, it was in the 1995 Parliamentary elections. In the 1996 presidential elections it was not quite that good, for very special reasons. Then we arrive at the parliamentary elections before Christmas in 1999, and there we see that it is totally wrong, to say it in good Norwegian. Media's independent position is gone, freedom is probably gone too, media is currently eaten by individuals and individuals who use them for their own benefit. In Norwegian television programmes, we can now see that the country, i.e. Russia, is run down and run by criminal economists, corrupt bureaucrats and dubious businessmen, to quote the indent. Massive international financial support has only stimulated corruption, I think. Few get stunned, the masses search farther and farther into the armod. In Chechnya, things have gone from bad to worse. After taking the lives of more than 10 pst. by the people in an unprovoked war in 1994-96, which they lost, the Russians at Lebed entered into an agreement with the Chechens in August 1996, under which Chechenia's status was to be determined in negotiations before 2001. In May 1997, they entered into a treaty there. states that in future all disputes shall be settled by peaceful means. This Treaty was held in forms commonly used between independent States. Nevertheless, the Russians set up a new war in the autumn of 1999. This is now being led by a brutality that we must return to Hitler's and Stalin's days to find the husband. Last week we were able to read in the Evening Post that the former Russian Prime Minister Stepasjin is now standing up and tells us that the attack on Chechnya was planned all last March, i.e. six months before the action in Dagestan and the terrorist acts in Moscow and other cities, which were later used as a basis for starting the war. About the action in Dagestan, it is said that it led to the attack being postponed for two months. In the Evening Post, we read that Russia's most prominent military expert, Pavel Felgenhauer, writes: “Putin also probably knew a lot about the bombing of the housing blocks, which happened just in time to whip up public support for a war in the Caucasus planned in the Kremlin.” Lebed has said the same in an interview in Le Figaro for the most part. So we are now dealing with a Russia in chaos and war, ruled by people who are clearly completely homeless in the choice of instruments. So what do we do? Contact – yes, of course. Impact - yes, for all intents and purposes. But I think that all the experience shows that ‘tekkeri’, or we're going to say to make Chamberlain a guide in such situations, is going crazy. If the Lords of the Kremlin do not meet more tangible demands and reactions, e.g. in the economic field, I am afraid that it will be too easy for them to continue along the path of the misery they are now walking on. Let us have a concrete debate on this now. It must be better than toretalors in four or five years if what we should have done in today's situation. Taking cowardice and double morals in notes and thundering afterwatches toretals in retrospect à la Bosnia or Sweden, is bad policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e81	The Minister for Foreign Affairs opened his presentation to the Stortinget on 20 January, stressing that foreign policy is not just about impersonal forces. He said, ‘These are individuals — their needs, interests and rights. Often it is even the most fundamental of all rights, the right to life.’ We can all connect to this. One can also add: security and foreign policy must be based on values. A policy that does not reflect humanitarian interests and protects the rights of individuals will be negative. These are clear examples of Kosovo and the Chechen war. The security of the new century we've now gone into will be what we're doing out of it. The future can be shaped if there is a common vision, adequate resources and, above all, solidarity between democratic countries. In addition, the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the debate today have highlighted the importance of strengthening the security and stability of the Euro-Atlantic region. We need to update the task of a collective defence developed in NATO over 50 years. In other words, we must be better able to face future threats – which are no longer static or easily identifiable, as we experienced them during the cold war. These new tasks necessarily need to be solved within a clearly defined framework. New types of risk associated with proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and regional and local conflicts need to be addressed more effectively. In addition, they must be located within the framework of the UN Charter and international legislation. The use of power to protect individuals from abuses and to defend human rights will therefore mean that the social consensus within NATO needs to be extended. The same attitude and process will be felt by the EU. Yes, we can be fairly sure that EU countries will develop strong security and defence cooperation between themselves. For my part, I have never doubted how necessary it is for our own country to actively participate in the EU as a member. Although the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not consider it a major problem, I am afraid that we can see that NATO's position as the central forum for discussion of defence and security issues could be weakened. Although one can expect good forms of cooperation between NATO and the EU to be established, by not being an EU member we can be set in motion. In the longer term, this can only mean uncertainty for Norwegian defence and security interests. It would therefore have been more reassuring for Norway if, as a full member of the EU, we had helped to further develop the institutional cooperation that is now taking place between the EU and NATO. This process, which is currently in full swing, would be better addressed through Norwegian EU membership for Norway’s foreign and security policy situation. Until then, hopefully not too long, it is at least now imperative that we be more offensive with regard to Norwegian interests in relation to Europe and the EU, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Haakon Blankenborg, and others have called for in today's debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e99	The Minister for Foreign Affairs began his presentation by giving us some of his strong impressions from 1999. He gave an important reminder that foreign policy is also about individual people, as Gunnar Schaug also mentioned. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been a good ambassador to put the needs and rights of individuals on the agenda, not least through his leadership in the OSCE in the last year. Not only do we in the Christian People's Party say this, but the Foreign Affairs Committee has also heard many times in meetings with representatives from many countries, now last in Central Europe. The Oslo Summit in November last year, including: President Clinton, Barak and Arafat showed what individuals mean. Leah Rabin's commitment was clear: we want peace. Is there too much to ask, she asked. Reference is made, inter alia, to: in Italian media, following the Oslo meetings, that the opinion of both the public in general and decision-makers is that Norway is at the forefront of international peacemaking. Reconciliation is about internal processes, which can only be developed through human interaction. There's something happening in the meeting between people. Armed conflict is a major problem that causes people to suffer. If we are able to settle such conflicts, we also get to do something about people's sufferings. Peace and reconciliation are therefore central to the Christian People's Party. Norway has also gained some experience in this work, as in the Middle East, Guatemala and now also Sri Lanka. This is good, general foreign policy that also makes Norway interesting. In today’s world, national and international interests are often not clearly distinguished. We promote values we believe in – human rights, peace and democracy – because we stand for them. Those values are also our interests. Taking responsibility internationally gives us a choice that a small country needs, in addition to what we think is important. The Christian People's Party believes that although we have taken a no to the EU position, Norway can claim itself internationally in a good way. It's proven, not least in the last year. When political comments state that the Government is afraid of the committed EU, the majority of the people are the first to be judged. The 1994 referendum must be respected regardless of government, but at least the Bondevik government represents the majority of the people. Some are concerned about the position of the Portuguese when they have the presidency in the EU. My impression is that, after the Committee was in Lisbon in December, Portugal will include Norway’s relations in its work, including relations with NATO, security policy bodies and their status in the EU structure. When Neil Kinnock in a 60-page document unfolds the administrative culture of the EU bureaucracy in Brussels, several of us EU opponents have previously claimed that the EU Commission is out of date, that responsibility is fragmented, that there is widespread waste of resources and that the recruitment of employees has not been proportionate to the tasks to be carried out. After the detection of fraud and camaraderie, and after the departure of the EU Commission last year, the EU administration is now reforming. Maybe there's something good coming out of this cleanup, which was necessary. As the enlargement process progresses, this presents challenges to our government – as has been claimed many times today – but also to the EU organisation itself. What changes this will lead to will only be seen when there are concrete admissions of new countries, which lie in the future for several years. I would say that when it becomes a reality that central and eastern European countries become members of the EU, then the EU Organisation has also changed from what it was, both in 1972 and in 1994. Norway has, in some contexts, greater political scope than EU countries. Many of the EU directives in which Norway can use the right to veto are also controversial in EU countries, not only in Norway. In addition, I would like to remind you that Europe is diverse. Not all EU countries are members of NATO, not all NATO countries are members of the EU. The main responsibility of NATO remains collective defence and transatlantic cooperation, but the Security Council has overall responsibility for international peace and security. It is therefore a natural follow-up to the Norwegian willingness to take responsibility that Norway is a candidate for a seat in the Security Council. As the Foreign Minister said in his statement, membership of the Security Council will provide us with a new platform where we can follow up the work on international crisis management, human rights and humanitarian issues. Experience gained through the OSCE Presidency will be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e129	I want to focus on Eastern and Central Europe and the situation there – from the Barents region to the Baltic and Balkans. I look forward to a separate Balkans debate later. I am not quite convinced that political Norway will take the consequences of how bad the situation is in the countries just outside our living room door – how much distress and poverty is. It shows the small appropriations we have allocated to this important work. If we don't succeed in stabilizing, or if we don't put in enough money, the cry of so-called strong men, nationalists and dictators can be very strong. We're talking about reconciliation, and we're just going to demand that people make up for the wars in the Balkans. Of course, the only way out of the situation is, but I often miss a deeper analysis and description of what and who to reconcile, and why it is a difficult process that requires the help of Western countries. My opinion is that bets on women are the most important contribution to reconciliation. This cannot happen without more resources. Women are an important key to stabilisation. I have been in most countries in Eastern and Central Europe in recent years. I have started various democratisation courses for women, a scheme called "Women Can", which the Women's Movement of the Workers Party has made and translated. Money for these courses is economical, despite enormous demand and demand. Women from different parties, trade unions, NGOs, parliaments and local authorities participate. I think I have a pretty good picture of how bad the situation is, and I would like to see more money spent on women in the next few years. Because it is now happening, it is now the main basis for stabilisation and reconciliation being laid. Why is it important for women's efforts? Women and children are hit hardest, as a mother and not least as a warhead. Divorced women and widows, many of whom, have a particularly difficult housing situation. The apartments are linked to work, and without a man, who likes to have a job, lies a thin spot. Widows double up. Mothers desperately try to warm their newborn children in cold and war-damaged homes. It's high unemployment, mostly for women, although they often have the most education. It's low pay for everyone, but lowest for women. Lack of wages and salaries affects women, who often have the primary responsibility for the family, to provide food for their children. For example: Albania fears the mothers for malnutrition in the children, and that is not the only country. There are poor working conditions, a lot of sexual harassment, there is corruption, mafia, drug use, smuggling and prostitution, there are strong macho cultures, with a lot of private violence and alcoholism, a lot of weapons are available to private individuals, there is a lot of crime, as everyone knows, and a lot of highway robbers. There are also serious aftereffects of wars, killings and enigma – warriors who raped were a war strategy and children were spectators. Neighbors concealed paramilitary groups, supported and belonged to the enemy. You'll now cooperate with him who raped your mother or your sister, who killed your brother or beheaded by your girlfriend. Only a few have been taken by the police. Of course, they're suspicious of each other, they don't trust each other, and they don't become friends on command. When, for example: Is there a curriculum in school? Whose history are the children to learn about? What are they going to learn about the wars – what is the truth about the wars in Bosnia or Kosovo? The parties and the political and social institutions are man-dominated. There has been a dramatic decline of women in parliaments, and there are few women in leading positions in trade union movement. But women in Eastern and Central Europe are like us – they want peace and harmony and a life based on equivalency. We need to help them build strong democratic structures. We must help women to a life of dignity. This is part of the core wall of democracy. There are fragile democracies there, and they need a lot of help. They're motivated, they're engaged, they want so much, and they're optimistic. But we have to help them. I have to say right away that one of the big problems is that there are too many invincible, power-sick and corrupt men who sell their countries cheaply to the West and to various mob organizations. I believe that women must come in and replace some of the infallibility and corruption that is present there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e155	When I take the floor again, it is on the occasion of the discussion about Haider. So it is a politician who comes from one of Europe's oldest cultural nations. It is a neutral state, with Europe's most miserable defence. It's about a series of detached quotes from a politician who won't even admit that he's neither racist nor Nazi. So you don't want anything to do with him. And not enough – you don't want anything to do with Austria. You have to isolate a society that chooses such a politician democratically. On the other hand, in the case of an old KGB spy who is responsible for the suffering that is currently limited to Chechnya and something outside, he should be contacted and helped as much as possible, for there is hope. So to me, this seems like some kind of crazy thought spider and some kind of procurator's fist, if you're going to take it in the worst sense, and at least it's clear that the distance between diplomatic tactics and moral intrusion is pretty short. I want to say that when you're not satisfied with what's going on in Austria, and with the central politician there who has a Nazi parenting background, wouldn't it be more natural to have contact, just to increase contact, to communicate our ideas and opinions? But we won't. No, here we're going to have a completely different reasoning. But on the other hand, in the case of this old KGB spy – who has reaped his popularity through this brutality – he, of all people, we must therefore reverse through some kind of contact in the Council of Europe and cooperate with and commit to it. So, frankly, I don't understand how far you can reason away from a reasonable reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e164	‘Tank spin’ may well be a reasonably striking characteristic of the last article. I have to say that if there is something I do not have problems with understanding, then it is the unrest that is taking place in all democratic countries in Europe by the prospect that a party in one of Europe's oldest cultural nations – there has been a great deal of old cultural nations in Europe in the twentieth century, as is known – that has such an obvious brown colour in its colour spectrum as the party that Jörg Haider is leader of, would come to government power, and perhaps even become a leader in the OSCE cooperation organisation. I have to say that I understand very well that the State of Israel does not look at it with any enthusiasm, and I have to say it surprises me that there are big business representatives in Norway who are unable to understand it. I actually asked for the floor to continue a little line exchange I had with the Foreign Minister earlier in the debate, where he said he was not aware that he had referred to the argument that enlargement of the EU is also an extension of the EEA. It is possible that the Foreign Minister is right to do so, but in his statement the sentence actually reads: ‘An enlargement of the EU means enlargement of the EEA’. When I interpreted it the way I did it, it was because the Prime Minister has done it several times here in Stortinget and quite explicitly used it as an argument that it is in Norway's interest that the enlargement of the European Union should be as extensive as possible, because it leads to the extension of the EEA area as well. I've always expected the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister to sign the same company, and that what one thinks, that's what the other thinks. That's why I tried to get the Foreign Minister to nuance that picture a little – precisely because this enlargement of the EEA area, from Norway's point of view, is quite fundamentally ambiguous. It is an advantage to expand the free trade area – yes. However, the political imbalance that has always been there within the framework of the EEA Agreement is increasing as one side of the contractual relationship becomes heavier and heavier, while the other side remains silent and does not change in size at all. The reality of foreign policy in this – and that is despite the special responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not trade policy – is that Norway's position in the pan-European picture is marginalised as more and more countries become members of the EU, while Norway remains at rest on the ground. That's what's really worrying politically in this picture. The Foreign Minister now has the opportunity to come back to the greater extent of the European message that the Government is going to present, and I hope that he will really go into that discussion. It was an important argument on the no-side of the campaign conducted in 1994 — I think the left-wing part of the no-side — that if the EU were to turn out to be something like a pan-European phenomenon, Norway also had to take its position in the light of it and review it again. I have seen the Government's unreserved support for the enlargement process, so that the Government also actually wants the EU to become a pan-European phenomenon, but provisionally with the small exception that All-Europe does not include Norway. And that's where I think it's a fundamental ambiguity, not to say a contradiction, present in the Government's view of European reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e181	I record that the representative Inge Wohnning is pursuing a track that he has been involved in all day long, namely Norway's position in the EEA Agreement in the event of an enlargement of the EU. Now it is clear that an enlargement of the EU is in any case well over a few years ahead, and that is the question that will be given ample opportunity to come back to. However, if you want to take Inge Wohnung on the floor, you have to understand that right-wing thinking that an enlargement of the EU with an extension of the EEA Agreement is in conflict with Norway's interests as long as we are not a member of the EU, so that if we do not become a member of the EU, it would be a logical consequence of what Inge Wohnung says, that the Right does not want an enlargement of the EU, at least according to Norwegian interests. That's an interesting point in itself. On the issue of Norway’s ability to take care of its interests in the context of the EEA Agreement, Inge Wohnung pursues the point that since the EU side is enlarged, Norway’s ability to influence will be reduced. Of course, there might be something in it. You shouldn't fail to have an intellectual openness because at least in principle it can be thought of, but I think there's a too simple logic the Inge Wage pursues here. Otherwise, it is clear that being concerned with Norway’s situation within the EEA Agreement after enlargement, of course in itself, is a point. This way, it can be deserving. Finally, for the sake of order, because I believe the Left is the only party that has not given its opinion on Austrian government formation and politics, only to make it clear that the Left also shares the assessment of Haider and the possible participation of his party in an Austrian government that I have the impression of has been expressed by all parties other than the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e192	I have noticed that all the representatives of the parties, I believe, in today's debate have underlined the need for an ongoing debate on developments in Europe and in the European Union, and it is a debate that the Government wants to contribute to. I can assure you, among other things. The representative, Mr Wohnning, said that the Europe message we are coming to the autumn would address many of the issues that have been discussed today, and look at what this means for us and for Norway. In my opinion, it is important that we take time for a thorough and nuanced debate. This was also a question that, among other things, The representative, Mr Solheim, was in the Chamber, and the Government is just asking for the European Communication to provide the Stortinget and the political parties with a good basis for a forward-looking debate on Europe and our relationship with the European Union. The representative of Wage challenges me again on the issue of EEA enlargement, and I see clearly that enlargement of the EU represents a challenge for Norway. That's some of what we've been trying to point out. I think it might be a little wrong when the representative at the same time says that Norway is at rest, or that we are sitting still. I think that some of the work we have done, and which, to the extent that some representatives have pointed out here today, with regard to a number of arrangements vis-à-vis the European Union, suggests that we do not stand on the ground but that from the point of view we have, which is the basis of the 1994 referendum, we have developed a number of tools for complementary contact with the European Union. This is something we continuously assess, and of course it will also come out in the big picture. I may think that the criticism that we are not following the dynamics of the European Union is a target. The representative of Jagland referred to the statements that Chancellor Klima has made in Austria on Haider. I had a little feeling that he might have thought that we on the Government side should have been clearer in our criticism than we have been. I think it is very positive that Austrian politicians themselves take a clear stand on this. I guess that also means that we might not see Haider in the government position in Austria. I would like to stress both what the Prime Minister said, and I myself said, about our clear condemnation of Haider's statement, and that it would also be natural if we were to get in the situation that we had to deal with him as a member of the government, but that in today's situation, fortunately, there is no basis for wondering what kind of reaction this would have. The representative Godal took care of the situation in Russia and, in particular, Chechnya, and pointed out the problems we are facing in that we cannot implement a policy that also respects fundamental human rights in Chechnya, and I agree with the representative that this is a major dilemma. One of the things I see as a challenge here and one way to follow this up is to strengthen the OSCE further. I think we need to try to develop early warning mechanisms and preventive diplomacy as an organization that the OSCE can use. I think at least that's one of the tools that can be effective. Even Russia was involved in and accepted in Istanbul that conflicts such as the Chechenia conflict are also something that the OSCE may be concerned about. It is not an internal issue in that way that one cannot engage in it by an organization such as the OSCE, and therefore it will be the organisation’s and international community’s challenge to further develop it. That is something we will also try to develop further within the OSCE and also in relation to the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e203	What got me to take the floor was the representative's last post. In my opinion, it must be a cross-thinking of the representative's salary that if Haider now really comes into government in Austria, it is precisely after possible cooperation with the pay sister party in Austria, and as far as I know, Haider has also previously been in cooperation with the social democrats in Austria. What prompted the representative, Gundersen, to respond, and that has also caused me to stumble, is what is perceived as a contradiction in this debate. The point is that here one faces a politician with thoughts and ideas that, if the quotations that have been reproduced here today are correct and put into a proper context, are of a nature that no other party shares in this hall. In my view, the best way to do this is to have an open dialogue and an open debate and so could affect it. However, in the case of the countries and the Heads of State Gundersen mentioned, for example. Putin, and the extensive human rights violations that are taking place in Chechnya and that are being carried out by Russia, and I can mention myself, for example. China, then we're very concerned about having a dialogue, the dialogue is the most important thing, in regimes that have shown themselves very little open, regimes that have shown little susceptibility to democratic arguments and open debate, where it's just important to have a dialogue, despite the fact that there have been concrete actions that are unheard of and that are clear violations. I don't think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e216	I can confirm that it is a cross of thought that a party like Haider's party can at all be a current government partner for someone in a normally functioning democratic society. There's still to be seen if it's really going to happen. What I said in comment to Mr Gundersen's speech was that it is incomprehensible to me that it is incomprehensible to the representative of Gundersen that some people can see with great concern that the kind of political processes are possible in one of Europe's oldest cultural countries. As you know, Austria has a neighbouring country that is, if possible, an even older cultural country, and there it was that a party with a rather dramatic brown color actually came to power with something similar to an absolute population figure behind it. I assume that neither the representative Gundersen nor the representative Danielsen believes that the popular uprising legitimized the party or legitimized that someone would be willing to cooperate with such a political movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e223	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Fotation, see page 1817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e238	St.meld. No 45 for 1998-99 on exports of defence equipment from Norway in 1998 refers to Norway’s sale of defence equipment and joins the ranks as the third of the annual reports on Norway’s arms exports. The level of arms exports in the years 1996-98 has been relatively constant. The volume of annual exports of defence equipment has varied slightly over the period 1996-98 and has remained at around DKK 1.1 billion per year. years. In 1998, the total value of exports of defence equipment, related services and repairs made amounted to NOK 1 135 291,000. Components, parts and subsystems accounted for almost half of the export. NATO, the Nordic countries and other European countries received the bulk of exports in 1998. There has been a high degree of political agreement on these annual notifications. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, therefore have no comments on this Communication. On the part of the Progress Party, we have made a special remark, which calls for the export licence to be adjusted so that defensive material can be exported somewhat more liberally than today, so that Norwegian arms exports can reach a larger potential market. We have suggested that there should be no export barriers to the other Nordic countries as well as the NATO countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e266	It is a unanimous committee that submits its position in this matter. Work on setting up an international court to treat what is referred to as ‘international crime’ has a long history and started as early as 1947, but for various reasons it has been difficult to achieve this before now. Norway has always been one of the drivers of this work, and if the Storting joins the Committee's suspension, we will be among the first to ratify the agreement. The Agreement and the Statutes are signed by 92 States, and so far they have been ratified by six States. The ratification of 60 States is required before the Court of Justice can be established. The Security Council has established such criminal courts in the past, in relation to Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia, but they are established for a specific settlement, and this is within the mandate of the Security Council. However, a permanent international criminal court must be based on Treaty articles of association. The International Criminal Court does not prejudge national criminal prosecution in cases falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, which are war crimes, genocides, etc., but acts with investigations, prosecutions, legal proceedings and judgments only when a state concerned is unwilling or able to act effectively on its own. However, the Committee also expects the Court of Justice, through its work and practice, to have a positive impact on national law and case-law in a number of areas, even if the functioning of the Court is neutral in relation to the functioning of the States in these areas. The statutes state that the Court cannot impose a death penalty, but in exceptional circumstances life sentences can be used. This has led to certain questions in some environments, given the issue of whether Norway, where the maximum sentence is 21 years, can, for its part, face certain problems of participation in a contract facility that allows access to life-long prisons. This has been assessed and it has been concluded that it will not lead to such problems. This can be justified by the following reasons: the maximum sentence of the Court of Justice is normally 30 years and can only be used in exceptional cases. The crimes we are talking about here must be taken into account if one can assume that such punishments will be related to serious war crimes, genocides, etc. – to the extent that there is something similar to this. The Court of Justice is neutral in relation to the laws of each Member State, so that Norway will not, for its part, be bound to change its criminal provisions. Where a life sentence has been imposed, the case shall be assessed by the Court after 25 years for any reduction in the length of the sentence. And finally, Norway today has no reservations in its extradition law against life sentences – only against the death penalty. I refer you to the Committee's comments and to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e292	There is an important international agreement Stortinget today is invited to join. It represents a strong advance in the international legal order to establish a permanent court, as the case suggests. We can only hope that this agreement will be ratified by a sufficient number of countries as soon as possible, so that it can enter into force. I can agree with the case rapporteur on the importance of the matter, and that for that reason there is, after all, an opportunity to give it some attention also in the Stortinget. In addition to the fact that the rapporteur was involved in the follow-up to the special courts following the Rwandan and Yugoslavian conflicts, we must also stress that this represents in many ways an extension of the legal order which began to be established through the Nuremberg process after the Second World War. It's also important to draw that line. Otherwise, I agree with the case rapporteur on the slightly more specific question of whether the Court can impose life sentences, should stand in the way, because we only have 21 years of maximum punishment in our own legislation. There I readily agree with what the rapporteur said. Finally, I would like to mention a perhaps even a little bit more specific question, namely whether the King's position in the Constitution should stand in the way of ratification. The Committee assessed it in such a way that, as the proposition says, it is not in the way of ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e305	The representative Harald Hove referred to the Nuremberg trial as a forerunner – at least theoretically and ideologically – for what we are discussing today, namely the International Criminal Court. In that context, I also want to point out that today it is actually 55 years since Auschwitz's release. It is, I think, very important that the Norwegian Magnificence is currently discussing such a matter of such importance to the international community in terms of human rights and case law internationally. The decision to establish a permanent global criminal court is, in the government's view, a violation of international law. This issue has been on the United Nations agenda for half a century. The Court of Justice will reduce the response time of international society to the most serious international crimes. Among other things, this will be a clear advance compared to the establishment of new criminal courts following decisions of the UN Security Council in each case referred to by the case-law rapporteur, the representative of the UK. We also hope that the Court of Justice will have a deterrent effect. At the same time, we are fully aware that the actual effectiveness and impact of the Court in practice will depend on the decision of the various States on the Statutes and political will to support the Court. However, a very important principle step has been taken. It is fully in line with Norwegian efforts to support the court project during the negotiations that we are now in favour of Norwegian ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e314	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e329	The size is today invited to consent to the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement between Norway and the EU on Norway’s participation in the work of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. As far as the Committee has been able to see, it is considered that it is a good agreement for Norway to conclude, an agreement based on Norway’s request to participate in this cooperation in 1995, and an invitation from the EU to start negotiations from 1996. Negotiations have taken place since 1997, and it is possible to claim that unnecessary time could be spent clarifying whether this link to the drug centre could be based on an agreement related to the EEA system. In any case, it has been clarified that it was not a road that the EU accepted, and then the negotiations have been carried out until the present agreement. There is reason to stress that Norway has been involved in cooperation since 1996, and that there is hardly any difference between the participation that has so far been so far and the one that will be given in the future. There is well reason to believe that this may be the reason why it has taken a little longer than it is necessary to carry out the negotiations, that, as we have seen, there was a cooperation that was already involved. In any case: the Committee unanimously recommends the negotiated agreement. I would like to add, for my own part, that I see it as very positive that the Government, in connection with the negotiations on the agreement, has underlined: ‘Norway has made it clear to the EU during the negotiations that the issue of a document is to be exempted from publication in this country, to be decided by the Norwegian authorities on the basis of Norwegian legislation.’ It is well in itself a clarification of a relatively obvious thing, but I would like to stress that at least the Left sees very positively that the Government is careful to underline such questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e347	In the debate earlier today, the chairman of the Committee said that the Government has not shown itself to be a striking offensive to Norwegian interests in relation to Europe – I think that is about the right quote. I believe that it must be said in particular that it is the EMCDDA, that is, the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. This center illustrates in many ways the problems of the spinal reflexes of the Government. Too many cases are assessed according to whether they are EU cases or not. If the initiative comes from the EU, it is too often skeptical, pending or directly negative. It will be a hopeless starting point for political work. We have to consider matters based on their actual content and see if they are desirable and worthy of our interests and our political values. There is unfortunately at this point the government has once again made mistakes and comes back into arrears. With regard to the fact that the rapporteur has pointed out several times that this has taken an unnecessary long time, I think perhaps the representative Hove should take a look at the government's handling of this matter. The task of this drug centre is to provide objective, reliable and, not least, comparable information at a European level on different aspects of drug trafficking, drug abuse and its consequences for individuals and communities. The Centre shall provide statistics and documentation on the scale of the problem and propose measures to combat both the development of new synthetic drugs and drug trafficking into Europe. Let me stress that this can actually be crucial and crucial to preventing the worrying spread of new and so-called trendy, but very dangerous substances into many youth environments. We, who followed the efforts of Social Minister Meltveit Kleppa to stop Norwegian participation in the European drug centre, see the report. A telephone interview with the Official Journal of Bergen on 28 February 1999, published in the newspaper in full or in part for the next three days, where she stated that this was not a priority task for the Government, has asked us what kind of knowledge and responsibility the Norwegian Social Minister has with regard to the increasing drug problems also in Norwegian youth settings. I don't know if the Minister of Social Affairs has been out with the police, out-of-town contacts or nightclubs in Oslo's streets at night, but I'm absolutely sure that these interests and agencies are more than happy to take her out. It did not get any better with everything messed up by the Prime Minister in various Question Time responses and in a briefing to the Stortinget on 10 March last year. On this background, it's actually interesting that the government of St.prp. No 29 now emphasises the importance of cooperation with the Centre and underlines the following: ‘This will provide a better basis for improving prevention and treatment strategies.’ We also get ‘faster recording of changes in the abuse situation’, as it also says. A unanimous committee then also agrees to the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and the EU on Norwegian participation in the work on EMCDDA, as the rapporteur also said. Then I can add that when the Committee was in Uzbekistan in the autumn of 1998, we got an insight into the growing problems of the country and neighbouring countries in relation to drug traffic, among others. Afghanistan, where smugglers use Uzbekistan as a transit country, and subsequently enter the Baltic and Scandinavia. And we could probably also read in the newspaper last Saturday about something of the same. Europol will become a central European cooperation institution here. And here, too, the other government has gone crazy. There is a proposal in the United Kingdom that underlines the need for a cooperation agreement with Europol. The fight against drug users, smugglers, profitors and researchers who are constantly developing new synthetic drugs can never be solved in isolation within the borders of a national state. The unimaginable tragedies that follow in the wake of this traffic mean that we must do everything in our power — including in international cooperation structures — to prevent, combat and identify patterns of abuse and to identify new substances. That's why I want St. prp. No 29 and the unanimous and undramatic committee position. It's as never known too late to take the wit!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e378	The Labour Party is pleased that the Government has taken seriously the signals from the Storting and negotiated an agreement between Norway and the European Community on a joint monitoring centre for drugs and drug abuse. This is important — important because all countries in our neighbourhood have the same problem. Having a common strategy on how to reduce drug trafficking and abuse is therefore very important. It should be a bet area for all nations, as this will have such an impact on the development of our societies in the future. As a result, this centre should be given a central role in collecting, analysing and disseminating information and knowledge on drugs and policy issues related to drugs. The objective is, as I said, very good. The dissemination of knowledge to Member States will be important for future national strategies to reduce the scope of this activity. However, it is important that the centre works in such a way that the material can be compared and undisputedly correct, in order to lay the groundwork for designing the measures. What is the threat today? It is not enough just to have the goal of reducing abuse. We know that this is actually the world's largest industry with an annual turnover of at least 500 million. dollar. We have to put in all the forces to get rid of this organized trade that is going on in the world today. The evening post recently told us in a report on drug syndicates that are investing too fully in our country. Therefore, it is so important that we have achieved this agreement, it signals that political governance in our country takes this trade and abuse seriously. At the same time, we see that countries in Europe are involved in liberalising their views on the use of drugs. As a nation, we should never agree with that, and it is therefore important that we are clearly informed by Norwegian that we do not want liberalisation in this area. It is to give up before the war is started. We have no idea what consequences it will have for our society, and here we should work to ensure that all countries are united together on a common perception of the problem. But as I said, in order to move forward in such a struggle we must have knowledge, and here a European Centre will be important to acquire this knowledge. But it requires a strong leadership that has a clearly defined goal. We must clearly say that trade and abuse should be banned and not allowed in the national context of the cooperating countries. Only in this way can we coordinate ourselves in the fight against international syndicates, which are cynical in relation to individuals and to social developments in this area. We need coordination in all areas of this struggle, and here we can only achieve a common goal between countries and thus lay the basis for exploiting resources and increasing efforts against criminal translation. We need to infiltrate our entire social life much stronger in the future in the fight against drugs. If we don't, the illegal translation will have major consequences for our welfare community. We have to get everyone involved in the fight, we have to put in the forces so that we can raise the'social responsibility' of all of us, of parents, of all of our educational institutions, and not least of our unions and trade unions. Today, we listened to the news that the same number of people are running around on our roads — with small and large cars — in drug addicts who are affected by alcohol. It tells us that we will have major problems ensuring the security of individuals in our country in many areas. We don't want to be a nation of progress, either as an industrial nation or as a welfare nation, if the developments we see today are going to evolve with peer-to-peer. Here we need to stand together across all the political parties and thus give work to reduce hall and use, far greater resources. Therefore, it is important to acquire knowledge, because through knowledge, we can gather on a common strategy against translation and abuse. It's not going to be a good idea to focus your efforts on just the addict; well, it's important to focus on those who take advantage of our youth and get them to try out such drugs. For this reason, it is so important to be involved in a joint work beyond the national state in a common fight against the criminal environment and against organised cross-border trade, and at the same time operate effective protection for our emerging relatives. We can do that only by using more resources on actions that activate youth and provide them with a daily content that stimulates the creative forces of each individual. I look forward to developing through this cooperation a national strategy for the effective reduction of the level of hallucinogenic drugs in our country, and we should be able to assess in the light of the importance of not having time to review the measures that can be taken in an effective fight against drugs. Through such a public initiative, we will be able to obtain effective protection against the forces that will only exploit the weakness of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e401	I agree with the representative of Mr Hove, who is the rapporteur on this matter, and also with the two representatives who have spoken, that this is an important matter. During the foreign debate earlier today, globalisation was a central issue. Drug problems are cross-border and require broad cooperation and exchange of information for effective control. And the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction in Lisbon has an important role to play in this area. The representative Nybakk said – perhaps it was meant to be a compliment – that it is never too late to take the floor. Now I really don't know if that's absolutely true, because I actually think in some situations it might be too late, but leave it now. [[Laughter]] But it is clearly never too late to take a rematch or take a new debate on the same matter. When the representative now refers to the Prime Minister's statement of 10 March last year and to the papers of 28 February, I think it might be in this case, because we have had it in various rounds earlier in this Chamber. But okay, that's possible that's how it should be. I would just like to remind you that one of the reasons why this matter took so long was precisely disagreement between the EU and Norway in connection with the form of association, because we in Norway wanted to have a cooperation agreement based on the EEA Agreement. The reason for this was that this would be as good an agreement as possible, which would give us as much influence as possible, and it also had a part to do with the size of our aid amount. The government not only feels that the opposition is concerned about this, but also has a desire to create the best possible agreements for Norway. I therefore have some problems seeing that it is so critical that you went this round. What's important here is that we lost nothing in this period. What we achieved was a third-country agreement, and the observer status or connection we had in the period until we got a third-country agreement was far the same as we have today. For the present agreement, inter alia: Norway shall have the right to sit and speak on the Management Board of the Centre, but shall not have the right to vote. The Directorate-General for Drugs will be associated with the EU information networks, where relevant information is exchanged electronically, and that is positive. Norway’s contribution shall be 5,5 pst. of the EU contribution. That's approximately equal to that. Five million. kr per. years, and expenditure shall be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. The government believes that participation in the drug agency opens up enhanced cooperation in a very important area for Norway. The Centre will be a central forum for dialogue on drug policy issues, and the Government wants the agreement to enter into force as early as possible. However, the EU side is not yet in target for approval of the agreement. As far as we are aware, the issue will be raised in the European Parliament in March. We can therefore only wait for the agreement to enter into force on the summer, but this is not due to the imprudence of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e429	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e444	The purpose of the Food Aid Convention is to contribute to global food security and improve the ability of the world community to meet food needs in developing countries. The Convention of 1 July 1999 is stepping up its efforts to provide assistance to the poorest countries, thus improving the profile of poverty. Argentina, Australia, Canada, the European Community and the Member States, Japan, Norway, Switzerland and the United States are the members of the Food Aid Convention. It will be in line with our aid policy to ratify this Convention. It is also provided that the costs are covered within the aid framework when proposals have been submitted by the Norwegian side to increase the Norwegian commitment from 20000 to 30000 tonnes of wheat equivalent annually. The Committee has no comments on this and advises the European Parliament to consent to the ratification of the Food Aid Convention of 1 July 1999.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e455	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e463	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e470	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s statement at his meeting on 20 January 2000 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e581	Here the President draws attention to the fact that it was the same at the time of the Presidency's proceedings, and the majority wishes to see the following despatch: Unit 132 is sent to the Financial Committee in respect of the draft decision II-IV, while you are not being examined. - Would you like a word?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e584	It was with great amazement that I received the information from Stortinget's office that this proposal was not normally proposed to the Financial Committee, but was split up. So the four Roman numerals of the proposal are divided, so it's suggested that three of them be sent. I've looked at a Document No. 8 proposals as a whole, and that you cut it up, was very interesting. That means that, in the future, when there is a roll-out proposition that contains different Roman numerals, we can take up suggestions in the hall to send different Roman numerals to different committees, or, if we don't want to deal with it, do it. That's the first one. Then there is the reason – which I have asked for and received in writing from Stortinget’s office – for not wanting to send you to committee, or not take it up, which is Section 47 of the Rules of Procedure. I allow myself to refer it, because I'll argue that it's the one we've been following. It says: ‘When a case is finally settled, it may not be brought back, or reopened in the same collection. However, if it is necessary, or if the Government promotes a proposal or notification within the same area of the Grand Duchy, the matter may be decided to do so, provided that the matter is again dealt with by the Committee.’ You're saying: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit immediately the necessary proposals for the Grand Duchy in order to reduce the level of car diesel charges to the level per. 31 December 1999.’ A request from the Government of the United Kingdom has not been processed in this collection. We have just based on this provision of the Rules of Procedure when we have promoted this proposal. Had we, as we would otherwise have done, made proposals in the form of paragraphs in the diesel charging system with other ears per. litre, i.e. amended section 1 of that decision, would enter this section, because it had been finally decided. So we have not, in the form of the same decision, in the form of paragraphs and in the form of ears, made any proposal, precisely because we were of course aware of Section 47 in this area. We thought we found a form that was within section 47. If that argument – if it had been a legal case – had not been made, and you had to have a subsidiary reason, then let me also include it: It is stated in Section 47: ‘If this is urgently necessary, or if the government promotes the proposition or notification within the same matter area of the Storting, the matter can nevertheless be understood’, etc. So it was like this: how are we going to get the government to use the right granted to the government exclusively under Section 47 to make proposals even if they have been dealt with earlier in the same meeting – so according to Section 47, the government has the right to do what we individual representatives do not have. The fact that the government should have rights that we don't have, I disagree in principle, but that's at least what the paragraph now says. We would get the government to do this, and then suggested to address a request to the Government. Of course, a request that is accepted by a majority, a request, but then we would have kept the formalities in place. And that's the formality I'm assuming is the reason why the Presidency's majority does not want the matter to be dealt with by committee, and indicates that it has been processed. So we've taken that into account, and would make the government use its right to do so, without the presidency having any objection that the matter had been dealt with earlier in the same meeting. Let me also mention that it becomes interesting to see other types of proposals that will come from other representatives in this room, which have something to do with heads and ears. I assume that then the majority of the Presidency will also reject any proposal for additional appropriations on the State budget for the year 2000, as it had its final treatment last autumn. So there will be quite far-reaching consequences if the majority of the Presidency stays standing. It eliminates any possibility for a staging representative to promote a Document No. Eight proposals for supplementary appropriations or amendments to the appropriations, because the majority of the Presidency thus claims that the entire state budget has been finally adopted, and that cannot be changed unless it is considered to be 'necessary'. And that's my third line of reasoning. We believe it is “necessary” to do something about the diesel tax, and so do we, because it turns out that the Stortinget has taken its decision on a wrong basis. In a couple of other things that are happening in this house right now, this is that you've got incorrect information, a point that you think is important in those contexts. And the incorrect information came, among other things. over a question-time issue during the previous week from Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister of Finance, which stated that it was provided that the new diesel, which was approximately pollution-free, or had less sulphur content, would arrive early. It turns out it doesn't. The basis for the Storting’s treatment of diesel taxes is different from that received by Stortinget, and then it is in itself ‘necessary’ that the deposit representatives who were injured to vote in favour of these diesel taxes on the basis that they thought it could be available to another diesel oil have the opportunity to change their mind, as they did not have the knowledge that we have now received from the Minister of Finance. I refer to the media debate on this as a reason for it. In addition, there is also a need for large-scale representatives to be able to say that because of the effects this has had in Norwegian society, we believe it is “necessary” to give a signal that something will be done here, rather than a signal that will be perceived by many as a sort of mockery. So to my last argument, and I'm a little excited about how the parties will relate to this. In the County Council of the Municipalities of the Federal Republic of Germany, where all the leading municipal politicians are, it was a protocol entry from the Workers' Party and the Central Party with a recommendation to collapse and government to reduce the diesel tax as soon as possible, and it was a proposal for decisions and opinions supported by the Right, it was we who promoted it. In the Sen- The county council of ralförbund was therefore a clear wish that the collapse and government should ensure that the diesel tax was reduced. Then I think it's a little too unwise to use a very formalistic attitude – more than what I think I've ever used, and I've used some of them – to say that you can't treat this. At least that is how I propose that document No. 8:30 am sent to the Financial Committee for consideration – sentence – i.e. the whole document – inter alia. with the political justification that it is urgently necessary for the Stortinget to relate to one of the problem areas that are relatively topical in Norwegian society. Some people have said that the Storting should discuss day-to-day, major political issues, and so here the Storting has an opportunity to say, "Yes, we should do that."
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e618	Sir. Hagen has then made a proposal for alternative treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e621	I'm sorry I was a little late to ask for the floor, I actually thought that someone was going to defend the presidential decision. Let me then just fill in – in case someone should sum up to do so – that I, for my part, agree with the representative Hagen. I don't have to decide on all of his arguments to do so. I believe in many ways that it is more than enough of the argument that was used about ‘necessary’. I would like to remind you that today's Minister of Finance says: ‘We cannot rule out that the decision on charging proposed by the Government and adopted by the Stortinget was taken on a failed basis.’ It is clear that when that premise is put down, the Storting in such a case must have the opportunity to assess it, so at my discretion this is reasonably clear. But even if none of Hagen's lines of argument were to come up, I would like to remind you that the majority also has the opportunity to use their heads and take a matter where it is politically necessary to do so. In particular, it is only a long way to go that we are faced with a voting right clause in Section 47. So I feel reasonably sure that what is the right reality should be able to get through, and I will therefore support that proposal. It has nothing to do with the fact that this proposal is incidentally identical to the budget we had for the current year, but that is of the things that also mourn it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e635	I should just like to say briefly that I have not intended to conduct any sort of procedure here on the understanding of the Rules of Procedure. But my opinion is very clear on that point, that the first paragraph of this proposal is – as I judge it – a pure reversal of what was adopted in the budget before Christmas. On that basis, I support what is the majority's opinion in the Presidency on the handling of this proposal, and advise the Workers' Party Group to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e640	Very briefly, we agree with the assessment given by the President-in-Office regarding the handling of this case. But as a comment on what Jan Petersen referred to, namely that the Minister of Finance has expressed a need to go through the premises of the decision by Stortinget regarding the diesel tax, I would say it is a completely different matter. There will be a meeting in the Ministry of Finance tomorrow with representatives of the truck industry. This will be looked at in a good way. And if it should prove that there is a need to make a different assessment given that the premises that the Stortingen made the decision will not hold, it will be brought before the Stortingen in an appropriate manner. I therefore distinguish between the problem raised by Jan Petersen and the document Mr. Hagen is trying to promote the Storting, and as Stortinget has already taken a position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e649	I really don't need to defend it on behalf of the great majority of the Presidency that is behind this proposal, because at my discretion you are invited to an obvious debate on the budget. There may be some consequences when we know how extensive the budget is, and how much, if any, could have been taken up in line with what was contained in their alternative budgets. Today it is 27 January, so this has worked for 27 days. It seems that it is only a short time after the decision has been taken that one has been given insight into what is called the non-conformity of the terms of the terms of reference or the ‘necessary’, or whatever wording is chosen from the Rules of Procedure. I feel absolutely certain that if the matter is such that it is really urgent and that the decision is taken under non-conforming terms, the government will know to return to Stortinget with this matter. And then we will be in a process that is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure. So I recommend that we follow the usual procedure and let the government take care of this matter. One could give signals – signals have come from a lot, so it's not that the government lacks signals – but I don't think we should go in and control the government or instruct the government on this matter. It's not worth the Big Thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e658	Several have not asked for the word. There are then two proposals. It is the Presidency's majority proposal that Minutes 132 be sent to the Financial Committee in respect of the draft Decision II-IV, while you are not being examined, and there are proposals from Carl I. Hagen to complete Document No. 8:30 is sent to the Financial Committee. Then we can go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27-2.ana.ud2587e673	Unit 132 will then be sent to the Financial Committee in respect of the draft Decision II-IV, but you will not be dealt with. Further references were made:
