ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e27	Four permit applications are available: by Ursula Evje, Reidun Gravdahl and Anne Helen Rui on leave Thursday 9 March in order to take part in the ‘The Second Baltic Sea Women’s Conference’, chaired by the Nordic Council of Helsinki. by Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on leave Thursday 9 March in order to attend the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Antalya, Turkey. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Achershuse, Andre Kvakkestad, and Helge Höva. For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes. For the Westfold state: Karin Lian. 3rd@item: inlistbox Kjell Ivar Fossnes and Karin Lian are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Reidun Gravdahl and Anne Helen Rui.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e68	The representative Steinar Bastesen will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e71	I have the pleasure of suggesting that drinks that are labelled non-alcoholic should be 100 pst. alcohol-free. Then I have a suggestion, which is that we should present all the wolf families/groups that travel in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e78	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e99	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Election Response City Haugland State Council Kåre Gjøne State Council Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. The president has registered that there was no one who did. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e118	I have a question for the Social Minister. The retirement pension is the base plan of our pension system, and people earn supplementary pension rights depending on income, and therefore on what tax they have paid. Despite this, there is some uncertainty in some aspects about what will be the benefit when they become pensioners, and the value of this. It's been about legislating the acquired rights to a greater extent. The Stortinget created new people's rights for approx. Three years ago, and then the government was ordered to investigate and make explicit formulations applicable to the rights that people should have in relation to this. Now it has happened very little, as far as I can see. At least no feedback has been received, although it is promised up to several times in a letter from the social minister. Does the Minister for Social Affairs intend to start?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e127	I share with the representative Gabrielsen his claim that the old-age pension is the very basic plan of our insurance and welfare system. That's what made a short-term joint effort a decision on an increase in the minimum pension of NOK 12 000. It is also right, as the representative Gabrielsen pointed out, that there has been some uncertainty about the future responsibilities of the people's population, and whether one is capable of fulfilling them. I want to underline that the uncertainty is primarily seen from other instances than the Government. It was e.g. already stated in 1967, when the people's fear was introduced, that there would be an annual state incentive to cover the people's fears of their duties. Then it is that the Government through the national budget has warned that, in the context of the long-term programme, we will carry out certain assessments both in relation to the state’s obligations, in relation to justice and in relation to the organisation and financing of the population’s rights. So that question we have to get back to in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e136	I feel very friendly by saying that this I will at best call to dry the water. This government is our instruction from Stortinget. But we were a unanimous growth that also includes the Centre Party – and at that time the Minister for Children and Family put in office as Secretary of the Social Committee – who decided that the Government should do that investigation. The ministry has replied in three letters. First, it has been promised during 1998. It has been said that a proposal is being considered for consultation in the spring of 1999. And now you're choking the water. I would like to draw the attention of the Council of State to page 29 of the position of the new Law on Population Security of 1997. There the government was ordered to investigate, and to come back with formulations that more explicitly and explicitly ensure that individuals are given legal protection for the acquired rights as they stand. Can the Council of State promise that she will at least look at the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e143	I'm going to promise to look at the setting. I could also say that this is a question that requires a lot of clarification. I believe that the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen, who was a member of the Social Committee, must agree with me. What has happened in the meantime is that there has been a debate on guidelines for negotiations and the size of the basic amount, which means a lot to the individual receiving a pension. Revised guidelines were agreed by Stortinget as late as last spring. But as I have already said, this is a matter which is not simple, but which is also not in a drawer. On the contrary, she will be evaluated and alerted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e148	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e151	At the end of the article, the Council of State dealt with the issue of the guidelines. It is probably one of the reasons right now that pensioners around Norway are uncertain as to what the value of their pension will be in the future. The government continues the race that the Workers' Party started in its time, and that has been the case in recent years, that is, that we have been under-regulated by the basic amount of popular security. Will the Council of State now ensure that there is a trend in line with wage developments, not ‘overall’, on which the new guidelines focus? In fact, the new guidelines do not say that the change in the basic amount of pensioners should be the same as for those who work. Does the Council of State think it is right to underregulate the basic amount, that it should be assessed from year to year, so that pensioners do not know what they have to deal with? For the investigation itself: is there currently a work in the department on this investigation? At least the Council of State can respond to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e158	And then finally, the answer is yes. When it comes to policies and what has created insecurity in relation to future pensions, I sincerely believe that there are many interests that want to take over different schemes that can secure a single pension. It also helps to create insecurity. When it comes to the question of how the Minister of Social Affairs, the Minister of Labour and Administration and the Minister of Finance deal with this jointly, the way in which we will follow the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge last June, we will of course say that practice will be consistent, as a basis for the social security that will be presented to the Stortinge next to us in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e168	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e171	I want to start with Gabrielsen's main questions. There is no doubt that the foundation of the welfare state rests very strongly on the fact that we have a popular security that is trusted. The uncertainty that many people are interested in travelling around the world, which the Council of State itself was in, I feel like a big problem now. Maybe I miss a little bit of commitment from the Government to assure the public that the popular security will exist and be a basis for the pensions. It's very important that you give such a signal, because I think the future of popular fear is more a matter of attitude and perhaps less of ability. My question to the Council of State is: What can the Government do to maintain and strengthen the confidence in popular security as our future foundation for the welfare state?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e178	There is a broad deal both in the Government and in the Stortning about popular security as a security network and as a basic security for each of us. Then, of course, the Government can do what the Government can to last as big and wide a deal as possible in relation to it, and we can in our own way – in cooperation with the individual representatives of the big business, I say – syta to also assure the Norwegian people about it. The most important thing is the way in which we organise this, both in the budget and in other matters that come before the Storting. So there will be an important arena for the debate on the long-term programme. We're going from the Government's side to the South for a good basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e183	Annelise Höegh – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e186	Now the Council of State just said that there is a broad consensus in the Biggest of People's Rights as a common basis. But is it? I ask myself the question, when the Council of State is unable to answer Ansgar Gabrielsen's question about when the Government will come back with an investigation into how we can protect processed rights. Could it be related to the views of the Council of State and the Central Party on the public interest? For the Central Party, it does not want popularism to be the way it is today. The center part goes as far as I know for equal retirement for everyone, that everyone just has to get the minimum pension. But the most important contribution to the public's right to care for acquired rights is what we call the supplementary pension. Many are concerned that the supplementary pension will not be worth what it is today. So my question to the Council of State is: Is the actual background that the government in three years has not managed to get back to the Stortinge with an assessment of how we can secure worked-up rights – for those who are uncertain about them – that the Central Party will actually get rid of the main acquired right, namely the supplementary pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e191	The representative Annelise Höegh comes here with a statement that I've heard before, but that's not correct. The programme of the Centre Party has a formulation for a more similar pension. We've taken care of thatlift that happened at the bottom of those who had the lowest pensions, when the minimum pension was increased from NOK 69,600 to NOK 81,600. There is not today any unsavory cork between the government parties, or – as far as I understand it – with the plurality of the Stortinget that the system of the people's fear will exist. But it's actually not a completely simple case this with law enforcement or not. Let me stress that I am looking forward to a thorough debate on these issues in connection with the long-term programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e198	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e201	Now that the ski jumps have moved into the stairs to Stortinget, I find it natural to ask a question about the environment where the ski jumps really belong, the forest. It concerns forestry, and it goes to the Minister of Agriculture Gjønes. I know that we agree that environmental considerations should be crucial to the way in which forestry is managed, both for environmental reasons themselves, but also for the sake of confidence in an important export industry for the country. In a number of articles in the Evening Post over the past few weeks, it has been claimed that there is evidence that it is high in so-called protective forest and that State aid is also high in so-called protective forest. I note that the Ministry of Agriculture is now going to investigate that claim, but I could imagine getting the Minister of Agriculture's comment on the concept of protection, because it may seem that at least some of the areas mentioned have been assessed by the professional authorities, and that a balance has led to it being cleared for mowing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e208	It is true that in the evening post there has been almost a foal around forestry and the environment. Part of the concept of the forest plot has been used. That's a pretty dry statement. I just want to say in the beginning that I do not know of any such plot, nor do I have any indication that anything like this is happening within parts of the forestry – for having placed it. So to the direct question in relation to the concept of protective and in what way it is defined. One status is when it has been protected, i.e. it has been decided that the area should be protected. In that case, there are clear rules as to what is allowed and not allowed. In a protection process, there may be larger areas which are initially assessed and which ultimately are not defined as the protection – they may be assessed on the basis that something may initially have a protective value, which will have to be examined more closely, but may not reach them in the process itself. This does not, of course, mean that the areas that will then be disconnected will still have a special status without any compensation. What's being protected, the landowner gets financial compensation for, in the second case, it would be a strange situation if a set of special ties on it. But I also have to say that in the areas that may fall out, perhaps the forest owner as such may be a little careful and consider his course of action when he goes to the step of mowing. It is a general precautionary rule that any forest owner shall have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e215	I thank you for your answer. It is true that there is a process that determines which forest areas are to be protected by nature in this country. We agree that it is good that we have a system for it, so that we are preserved in unique nature, either by the fact that there are special restrictions in the way the stallion is to be performed, or by the fact that it is denied the maximum at all. What is important, however, is that when making the type of agreements to be taken into account for the environment, the areas cleared must also be able to operate in a nutritional manner when it is clear that they can be operated within a sound environmental framework. Some of the examples used in the Evening Post are in such a category that they have been assessed and released at the highest level. And then my question to the Minister of Agriculture: is it right, as the evening post does, to characterize the areas that are legally protected, when they are actually assessed and cleared for operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e220	It is a little difficult to answer this exactly as I do not know each area. The size has established a framework for the amount of coniferous forest to be protected. Initially, areas have been selected which are assessed on the basis of certain criteria and one then has to comply, in sum, with the size decision. One could say that the areas selected for assessment are in a way elevated and have at least the basis for assessment, but some lose in the ‘competitive’, to use the word, in relation to those chosen to be protected. What I just want to point out here is that it is every forest owner's duty to assess the possible care needs within the individual area, but otherwise there are no special restrictions in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e226	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e229	The Council of State is quite right to say that it is not easy to give exact answers here. And then it might be as difficult to expect that each forest owner in each case should be able to give exactly the correct answer to what is protected, and what is not protected – in other words, there is a certain possibility that mistakes can be made. And there are things that indicate that there has been a mistake in – to be quite concrete – the Viken Skoggeier Association, which has been a lot of the background to the plywood in the evening post. But what is equally serious here is that according to the newspaper, the Council of State, if he can confirm the content of the Evening Post a few days ago, threatens to use an environmental regulation that the Stortinget rejected in connection with the forest announcement, with a background to the events referred to in the Evening Post, for example. in the Viken Skogeiier Association. Is it the case that the Council of State has been threatened by the decision of the Storting, by using the environmental regulations that the Stortinge rejected, but which the Council of State obviously wanted to control Norwegian forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e236	First, the Council of State has taken initiatives by imputing both the Forest Owners' Association Norskog, the State Forest SF and the Norwegian Forest to gain views on what was made as claims in the Evening Post. I want an overview of what are realities. In addition, we have in fact also asked for a meeting with Jørn Holme in Økokrim, who twice in the evening post has said that he wants to have a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture. I want to know, what, if any, should be contained in information that we are not familiar with? As far as the threat of environmental regulation is concerned, in the debate here in the Stortingen on the Communication, it was said that one wants to give forest owners a chance of freedom under responsibility through Live Forest. The Minister of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture has no authority to take action on the follow-up to the Living Forest Principle. We're missing that home. But I also understood the Storting so that if this develops an unwanted practice, one might come back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e243	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e246	SV and the Minister of Agriculture have agreed that an environmental regulation is needed. It would put a quality mark on the Norwegian forestry industry which is essential for such a large export industry. In addition, it will take care of the natural qualities that this industry also has as its task. The issues referred to by the previous questions here can be quite serious for the forestry industry, which is a very important industry for large parts of the country. Now the Council of State signals that he perceived Stortinget so that if this does not work well, it is time to take the matter up again on environmental regulations. How long does the Council of State think it should have to assess whether the environmental regulation should be reviewed and, where appropriate, re-examined in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e255	What I can say is that per. Today too little time has passed. One must have a longer evaluation period, and one will also give the industry the opportunity and the freedom that the Storting has said they want to let the industry try out. Otherwise it has to be like this, I think, that in one phase now it's going to be made a lot of mistakes. It is such that we have no guarantee for each forest owner. First, it is not certain that they fully agree with the Living Forest project, and second, it is ignorance, ignorance, that makes them skip. So here I think there's going to be another training period. I trust that Norwegian forestry will take this seriously, and then we'll look for a certain time, when we're going to evaluate this, if it works. I am prepared to take seriously what Stortinget has decided, but still maintain that if this fails, the environmental issue is so important for Norwegian forestry that we cannot fail in that area. So I get to say that I don't like a debate about the environment in Norwegian forestry, only it happens on the basis of a reindeer principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e262	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e265	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs: On Monday, the Subutex project started in Oslo, and the first nine heroin addicts could have their tablets. This is the first step towards becoming drug-independent in heroin. The first results show that the drug addicts are very keen to get this offer. However, I must be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: The criteria set for inclusion in the Subutex project seem – at least for the undersigned – very strict. Will the Minister of Social Affairs take care to relax on the criteria that lie there so that more people can be offered Subutex?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e272	I share with the representative Nesvik's glad that attempts are now being made. There were three methadone clinics that in the autumn of 1999 received a clear signal for Subutex, in Kristiansand, Bergen and Oslo, for the first time as an alternative to some of the many who are currently in methadone queues. For the criteria that apply today, we have taken from the criteria that apply to methadone-assisted rehabilitation. A draft new criterion and revised guidelines have been out on the agenda and are being considered in these days in the ministry. Here are some important considerations to consider. On the one hand, of course, the most important thing remains to be done to strengthen the drug-free supply. On the other hand, in order to be able to be closed, we must take into account that there is a plan of action for individual drug addicts, whether they relate to housing, education, work or social networks. That might be the most important criterion. And then we're going to take care that we're opening up here for a treatment that controls some of the heaviest drug users, so that they don't get new tablets on the wrong foot -- that's actually the case for some of the first to receive Subutex.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e277	That's good and good what the social minister says, but for me, in fact, the most important argument in this case is to save as much life as possible. Although overdose deaths fell last year, Norway remains one of the countries in the world with a frightening statistics on overdose deaths. Methadone has helped it – it claims at least some researchers – and we think this is the next step on the way. The problem is that one must first be between 25 and 50 years in order to be able to get the offer of Subutex, one must have been addicted for at least 10 years, and one must have been drug-free for the past 24 hours before one can get into the project. What's regrettable is that there are 53 of the 300 people in methadone queue who have been found motivated to get this offer. Then the question is, aren't the criteria so strict that we risk losing many people in the course of overdose and other things, as a result of making too strict demands on the individual?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e282	Let me first say: all the measures that are now being implemented for the heaviest drug addicts are aimed primarily at saving lives, secondary to providing a better everyday situation, hopefully also in the long term at the same time at giving some drug-free lives. But when it comes to both methadone, buprenorphine and Subutex, saving lives is just important in terms of health. Let's be glad that overdose deaths actually went down from 270 to 220 in 1999. Of course, the number is too high. That it went down may be due to the intensification of treatment with methadone and Subutex. I believe that the low-threshold services that were started, first in Oslo, so on the initiative of the department of twelve other cities, have meant something.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e291	I want to ask questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. But first I will be allowed to take the opportunity to congratulate our gender equality minister on the day of March 8th, today, and my question will then be a little about what has to do with equality. Since the introduction of cash support, the share of day-old’s mother/trainee as principal form of supervision has increased from 12 to 17 pst. In the same period, the number of registered day-olds has halved, so they have fallen from 9,273 in March 1998 to 4,652 in February 2000. In response to written questions from the representative Fossum, the Council of State has said that it is not appropriate for her to set up a register to get an overview of the unregistered care services. In view of the accident and the illegal operation of child care in the Tunnel, will the Council of State reconsider its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e300	I want to repeat the congratulations with the day. It was nice to get a question that at least tends towards equality – I don't know if it goes directly to equality, but at least it's an important issue the representative Dørum travels. I found it difficult to answer the question on the basis of the accident that has occurred in Eigersund, because here there have been various governing powers within the image and assessed the legality of the operation, and I will not go into the debate that has been raised after the accident. Happiness itself is a tragedy. As an answer to the question about the registration of day-mothers, I would say first of all that I had expected something more day-olds after the cash support was introduced. I also want to say that it has become less than what I actually thought it would be. There have been several day-olds, but when it comes to two-year-olds, there is no particular change in whether a user has a day-old mother or a kindergarten. We will never be able to manage illegal activities by creating a register. In a register, we would be able to get some names of legal day-mothers who are now drifting away and who have everything under control, but we will not in any way be able to prohibit others from being day-mothers of those who do not want to register. When it applies to those who are engaged in black business in relation to their day-to-day business, I do not believe it has anything to do with cash support in itself. I also want to encourage parents to use white day moms, as they will receive documented expenses for passports and care of children. At the same time, however, we will also go out offensively, both through the Swedish National Agency and through the information channels we have ourselves, to make parents aware of how to do so in order to get registered day-olds, or to get white day-olds, and to get a system that is consistent with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e311	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm surprised if babysitting in the tunnel babysitting is legal; there are 70 children being kept without it being registered as a kindergarten. But I am also surprised that the Council of State, which is to be responsible for all children in Norway, is so easily aware that children do not have safe supervisory arrangements when Mom and Dad are at work. It's not just in Eigersund you have stories that we thought belonged to the past. A father in a municipality in Akershus searched for a day mother through the locality. He was called up by a lady who had seven children under three years old, and with the man's son there would be eight children who would spend the day in a three-room apartment. In addition, the lady was not interested in registering as a day mother, for tax reasons. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is an increasing problem? Does the Council intend to do something about the problem, so that we can deal with schemes that are definitely not for the benefit of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e320	I'm not so sure if this is an increasing problem. It's a problem that we've been struggling with for years, including under former child and family ministers. Such stories about people who accept a lot of children and don't want to register, I've heard many times before, but nothing has been done about it. It's illegal, and I want to challenge and encourage parents to use legal day-olds and legal kindergartens. In the case of accidents occurring in Eigersund, such accidents may occur in ordinary kindergartens; they may occur in day-olds – they may occur wherever there is a child. I do not think a registration system will prevent such accidents, but I will also follow the case carefully in relation to what has happened in Eigersund. I know that the government has been in for an assessment of the legality of the operation. I've reacted myself. We have a code for how many children you can have without having to register it as a nursery. The county has been inside the image, so these assessments have been made. Of course, we will follow closely, but I encourage parents in the first place to make the best offers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e327	There will be follow-up questions – Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e330	I would like to follow up the question asked by Anneliese Dørum. As the Council of State itself had in mind, it is natural with this theme on 8 March, for the children have always been the main care theme of women. When we had small children – some of us – there was a lack of kindergarten places. That's still the case. When one hears such stories, it strikes me that maybe we would have avoided some of these hidden problems that the children and their parents are up in, if we had had enough kindergarten places. Do the councils agree? What will the Council of State — which is primarily responsible for the welfare of children and well in Norway — do to ensure that children receive safe care while their parents are at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e337	I want to define this as a question a little bit on the side of what was asked. But I can remind the representative of something she probably knows, that we have submitted a big message about the kindergartens in Norway. That's where we've set up a plan to get full coverage. I agree with the representative that we have too few seats, and I sincerely hope that over the next few years we will be able to meet the needs of the nursery in Norway. It is in the big message that the Stortinget now has for handling, and it will be adopted during the spring. We've also put in funds for how this is going to be followed up financially. NOK 1.2 billion will be added during the period. I believe that when this is done, all the children in Norway who need it will have a place in the nursery. We need the municipalities with us on the team to get to this expansion. We can decide plans, we can follow up with money, but the municipalities have to do the job. I hope that, in cooperation with Stortinget, and later the municipalities, we will actually get full coverage of kindergartens for the children of Norway by 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e344	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e347	I have a question for the Social Minister. In the richest country in the world, people live in poverty. The government has just sent a non-smooth message to confirm this. Now I think both the Social Minister and several of us in the Storting have to fold up the sleeves in order to do something about this. For SV it is unacceptable. There are many who barely have daily bread and thanks over their heads, and they can only forget to live a normal life, as others do. At the same time, Norway has never been richer. Profit is increasing, private consumption is increasing — almost everything is increasing. We've never been richer. Nevertheless, the Government has not clearly stated that they have an objective of eradicating poverty in Norway. They explain that they will put forward some proposals on peu, but they must take account of the economy. Then is my question to the Council of State: When are we rich enough for those who have the least among us to be able to live a life like ordinary people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e356	The Equalization message, which the Stortinget now has for treatment, contains extensive analyses that document exactly what Karin Andersen now says, namely that there is a group, albeit limited, that has low income over time and that it is important to have something done in relation to it. There is a message that was actually proposed by the Center Party in the previous magnification period, to which the government party and SV joined, but which the plurality would not have. Therefore, it was very crucial for us, from the Government's side, to provide as extensive documentation as possible to get a multiple in order for action to be needed here. I am very pleased with the reception that these analyses have received, and the reception that our proposals have so far received, even though it is said to see how the final conclusions will be. I want to say that we're rich enough today, but at this point, it hasn't been willing or plural for corks to get these analyses done before or to adopt the necessary measures. It is now a good starting point for a common effort, an action plan to combat poverty in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e362	I thank the Council of State for also believing that the time has come, and that we are rich enough. Then I expect that we, both the Council of State and we who burn for this, have to make this the most important thing in our day. I want to focus on another theme that may have been a little bit low in the message, and it's about children and poverty. According to the Central Statistical Office, it is approx. 45,000 children who are poor and 80,000 who live in families receiving social assistance. The situation of children is particularly important to light up. For SV, it is particularly unworthy that children should have to grow up under such conditions. Some of them are even forced to stay at the shelter, a system that should have been banned. Does the Council of State see it possible to get rid of this unworthy residence for children in a very short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e369	A more social housing policy is one of the main strategies of the message, as well as a softer line of work where even more people can gain access to employment as a basis for a full income, as well as a better social security network, better public services and a better distribution of income, i.e. a fairer tax system. I will answer yes to the direct question from the representative, Andersen. I am absolutely in agreement that we need to take a force in order to ensure that the hostel is not a permanent home for children – and hopefully not for adults either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e376	There will be follow-up questions – Olav Gunnar Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e379	It seems that many people, when it comes to public poverty and the fight for life, become caste balls between different systems: social security, social security and social security, each of which – sometimes at least – defines its responsibilities and says that this is the other thing that needs to be taken care of. In this way, many, and not least those who have the most difficulty, experience a canoeing process between the three floors. Does the Council of State see that an opportunity to solve some of these problems is that, instead of having three different levels, one makes them a common state body, where social affairs are also part of such a common etat system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e384	I thought that Mr Ballo's proposal was an exciting idea, but I would like to endorse it without further delay. The first step in connection with it is at least to support a much better cooperation than is the case today. I might think that these public service offices that are now being set up, which means that the individual should be involved in an instance and then carried on, can be a way to go – to partly meet Ballo’s question. Another is the experiment that is now being set up in Oslo during March: a user office, where the key is cooperation between these three agencies. Throwing balls is a horrendous act, which we have to abolish for the people we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e395	Vidar Kleppe - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e398	The Council of State is committed to analysing the situation of poverty in Norway and the challenge we face jointly to eliminate it. The Equalisation Communication should also be the answer and conclusion to the challenges we face as a nation. Then is my natural question: if the Council of State and the Bondevik Government are to pursue the policy they want, when can the Council of State end all poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e403	The first item for the Government was to submit a message that would involve a wide majority in this magnification room in this context. Message was submitted and processed in Stortinget. We're impatient. In the 2000 budget, we have already stepped up some measures: pay increases over a longer period than in current schemes for people who can work in good periods, employment services for municipalities themselves when it concerns some of their most disadvantaged, and measures to secure more than one housing. I want to return to Stortinget with an action plan for this area after the message has been processed. But I repeat, we are impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e408	Asmund Kristoffersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e411	It is true that the report contains very good analyses of the situation. We fully support the conclusions drawn there. But it was an indication in the main response of the Council of State that made me take the floor now. That was the indication that the majority of the Stortinget, in which the Labour Party must have been involved, had made sure that proposals had not been adopted – supposedly. The Labour Party has also made proposals on fiscal cohesion, but the bourgeois majority in the UK has voted it down. We have improved the arrangements for single dependants. Then we've fought very hard for labour market measures, to get people working, because the most important difference between people is between those who are at work and those who are not at work. And then the question is to the Council of State: what are the measures proposed by the Government, where the Workers' Party has voted against, which should lead to better cohesion between people when, for example, it does. Do the things that are referred to here apply? We have fought hard to get to this, but have not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e420	What I mentioned in my first answer, was in the autumn of 1996, when the Senter Party is proposing to ask the Harlem Brundtland government for an analysis and an overview of the increasing differences in our country. It was rejected. Then I am very pleased with the signals that come from the Working Party in relation to the processing of this message. I think that means that we're going to have a whole number of numbers here. The most obvious thing that the Labour Party in the longest strata against measures in this country was the rise of the minimum pension. They finally came after, like the very last game. So now there are new opportunities to support a softer workline, a more finmasked social security network, a more social housing policy, better public services and a more equitable tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e428	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e431	I have a question for our honourable Minister of Agriculture. Many consumers in Norway believe that food prices are too high. New studies show that on many products there are 40-50 pst. higher prices than in Sweden, and Ola and Kari Nordmann protest that we have the highest food prices in shops and the largest agricultural transfers across Europe. The only way to protest is to elect Sweden to act like a pig. But not enough, Norwegian farmers who, because of all the closures of the Norwegian agricultural policy, cannot have development opportunities here at home, rent and buy properties in Sweden in order to develop their ingenuity and preferences. And not enough with that: still more farmers travel to Sweden and buy agricultural machinery at half price, yes, they buy even poultry furniture cheaply. What is so fundamentally wrong with Norwegian agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e440	After all, Stortinget and Hedstrøm will be allowed to respond when they are about to deal with the agricultural notification in Stortinget. The Government has presented its policy and proposals on how to anchor this forward. The size may now come up with other proposals. So to this with food prices. It is true that there was just a study showing the differences that Hedstrom points to. But I will then refer to the investigation that was carried out for approx. a year ago, where three research institutes were in. It was the Statistical Central Bureau, Econ and the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, which had a broader analysis of the situation in Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The study showed that there was a difference of approximately 12 pst., which corresponds to the difference in VAT between Norway and Sweden, while the agricultural products in the basket had a price difference of up to 20 pst. The ministry is now doing the same study again according to the same principles to see if the relationship between price formation in the chain from land to table changes, so that we can control the way price fixing is done. Otherwise, I refer to the approach proposed by the Government in the agricultural notification in terms of the target prices, where one has proposed a reduction of between 600 and 700 million. kr. provided that this is compensated by a change on the tax side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e451	After all, the Swedes have taken the aim of further reducing their food prices, perhaps by more percent per year. years. I can't see that we've been laying here in Norway. However, the Swedes have also taken some important steps to liberalise their agricultural policy by removing the concessional limit for livestock farming – mostly most production restrictions. They have removed laws, regulations and regulations in order to be able to operate effectively in Swedish agriculture and forestry. Isn't it soon that we also remove the coercion of the Norwegian farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e460	This is going to be a pretty big agricultural debate out of it. I don't think the coercion is worse than that the majority of those who are in the industry thrive in a system where we have some sort of regulated conditions, like in Norwegian agriculture. I would also like to point out in a TV debate some time ago that there was no significant difference — at least it was not much better to operate agriculture in Sweden than it was in Norway. Nor was the difference in price level one of the dimensions of which one can sometimes get the impression. With regard to Sweden and price developments, it is within Agenda 2000 in the EU. And with the grip we have now taken on the agricultural notification, looking up to the proposal that the Government has announced in the context of a proposal on VAT, we believe that we should be able to deal with the Norwegian price level in relation to what is happening in the EU up to 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e471	We will then proceed to the next main question – Reidun Gravdahl. If time permits, the last main question will be asked by Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e474	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Social Affairs: The state drug clinic in Hov, Finland, offers treatment and rehabilitation for drug-using parents from all over the country. Now the coating is only 70-75 pst., despite many enquiries. In the last two months last year they had approx. 20 enquiries, which resulted in only one submission. There is a great need for this offer, but counties and municipalities do not grant money for the treatment. Therefore, places are empty, while drug users lack an offer. What does the Minister for Social Affairs want to do to change this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e485	In these days, an assessment in the ministry is just about what we're going to do in relation to the State Drug Clinic. My starting point is that I don't want to get into the same situation as I was in the fall of Stortinget, where I was actually able to make sure that not all the places in the State Drug Clinic were useful, while it's quite clear, as the representative Reidun Gravdahl says here, that more people need a treatment site. The representative, Reidun Gravdahl, is aware that, on my initiative, the researcher Sverre Nesvåg of Rogalandsforskning led a working group that has had three main tasks, simply to look at the treatment supply for drug users in relation to the need, to look at the quality of the supply that exists, and, thirdly, to look at the organisation and funding. These proposals have now been heard, and have created broad debates and a great deal of commitment outside. We're now going to review them in the department, and we're going to come back to the Stortinget with a collective case in that area. A better link between supply and needs is needed and better quality is needed. The Social Committee has already got a case on that, and there is a need for another organisation and funding. I would like to come back with a possible extended criterion in relation to the state drug clinic to ensure that more people are treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e494	After often very long stays for children and their parents, they will return to their municipality. And it's hardly anyone who's done when they're printed out. While clients are at Hov, social services and child protection are involved. When they are outsourced, they usually only receive a housing offer, while the municipality does not have the resources for after-sales protection, which is very important. After I have been informed, it often ends with foster homes for the children while the parents have to go back to their treatment. When children may return to parents after several years, this is often an unsustainable situation for both. What will the Minister of Social Affairs do for these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e499	Here it is pointed out on another side that is very important to me, namely to ensure a better follow-up protection than today. The objective of the Nesvåg Group’s work is precisely to ensure a better relationship between the situation before, during and after treatment provision. We've seen a plan to upgrade the social offices in this country. ‘Knowledge and brewing’ is the title. There are drug addicts in particular, who are of particular importance, and I fully share with the representative Reidun Gravdahl’s point here that not least children in a family situation with such problems need to be followed up better than now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e506	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e510	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family – a question that has been a repetition here in Stortinget for the last three years, namely about the cash support. I was somewhat surprised a few weeks ago when it was suddenly in almost all the media that the cash support cost NOK 600,000 per person. family receiving cash support or choosing to be at home. It was a very special calculation made by a journalist in our country who believed that the only purpose of the cash support was that women should be sent home to the kitchen bench, or that one of the parents should choose to be at home. Does the Council believe that the provisional figures from the Statistical Central Bureau indicate that cash support has been a successful scheme based on the three criteria set for cash support, namely the desire for more choice for parents in terms of form of care, a fair distribution of the benefit to children's supervision between parents and the possibility of choosing more time for children?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e519	I can answer yes to that. Based on the material we've received so far, the research we've had, I'm actually going to say that all of these three criteria have been met. What you can ask questions about is exactly this with time with the children. But there are many ways to calculate how much time you spend with your children. And I have to say that I jumped a little in the chair even when I saw the calculator that our country used. What's unlikely is that the politicians, after seeing it, used it. It doesn't make any sense at all to make a point out of the math, as our country has done. It is obvious that for years very many families have prioritised that one or both should be something more home, and they have actually had less income for that reason and have labored a little financially. We have now given them a handshake through the cash support. I'm glad. I also think we have to include that part when we look at the total problem. I'm excited about the further evaluation. All three items mentioned by the representative shall be included in that evaluation. Two of them have clearly entered 100 pst. The third point is to be included in the evaluation when it will be presented to the Storting in the spring of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e530	The starting point for the piece that stood in our country was a quote from the Christian People's Party's own election brochures, highlighting one of the purposes of more time with the family. Now, when we look at the political process that's going on in the Workers' Party, with an eternal chaos about what you really think about cash support, it's obviously a proposal to some or all of the Center Parties. In the evaluation of the cash support, I have a follow-up question to the Council of State that goes on whether the Christian People's Party is still standing by the fact that the cash support will be based on the three criteria, and that you do not just want to bring forward the one criterion that goes on with the children more time. Because what it looks like now is that the Workers' Party is moving towards a model where you will actually only pay out cash if you choose to be at home with the children, i.e. a model that is far more pure in sending the women home to the kitchen bench than even the Christian People's Party has ever stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e537	I can agree with that conclusion. It has puzzled me a little bit that the Labour Party has not seen exactly that bit of its arguments when it comes to cash support. I get quite a lot of input from different sources that they think it should only go to those who work at home all the time. I'd like to stress that the flexibility, the freedom that we've given up, is being destroyed if we're to bind it strongly up to those who are home all the time. I think there are a lot of people who want some part-time solutions both in relation to kindergarten, in relation to working life and in relation to more time, and that freedom is in the model that works today. Then we'll see when the evaluation comes. I thought that, as politicians, we should have confidence in parents, that they should actually do what is best for their children. And of course, I get a lot of stories that there are a lot of people working just as much as before, but these tests will show what's real and what's not real. And if they want to – well, well, they have chosen a different form of care than kindergarten. But I think that when we get more babysitting places, those who are out of work will also choose kindergarten for their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e546	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e551	There are so many questions about the ordinary questioning procedure that we won't be done within the regulatory time. On the basis of Paragraph 53 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will therefore vote. The fourth paragraph gives access to just one supplementary question in the ordinary Question Time today. In addition, there will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Erna Solberg to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs who will direct him. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the question will be moved and answered before question 9, which will also be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Questions 14 and 15 from the representatives of Gunnar Halvorsen and Bendiks H. Arnesen, respectively, to the Minister for Defence, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Laila Kaland. Question 23, from the representative of Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Eirin Faldet. Question 26, from the representative Einar Olav Skogholt to the Minister for Social Affairs, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Questions 33 and 34, from the representatives of Elsa Scarbøvik and Erik Solheim, respectively, to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights, who has a disability. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the questions will be moved and answered in response to question 11, which will also be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Questions 40 and 41, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, are postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 42, from the representative of Mr Hedstrom to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e580	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Farum municipality in Denmark has been designated as one of the 10 best municipalities in the world. By means of privatisation and market-economy principles, the municipality has in relatively few years gone from being a municipality in trouble characterised by poverty and poor service to great success. High tax and low service have turned to low tax and high service. All municipal properties are sold, there is full freedom of choice in school and care for the elderly, and the money follows the users. Should not the experience of Farum also be interesting for Norwegian municipalities?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e589	In Denmark, there are examples of the outsourcing of certain specialised services, such as transport, cleaning and food supply. Attempts have also been made to competitively deploy care services in some municipalities. However, several of these have been stranded at an early stage due to a dissatisfaction with the service provision and conflict between the private operator and the municipality. In other words, the results have been far from clearly positive. Experience from Sweden suggests that the national economies of the country have markets for outsourcing, among other things. of care services. Therefore, the appropriateness of the outsourcing or privatisation needs to be assessed in a concrete manner on the basis of a number of factors. So the experience from our neighbouring countries does not provide a basis for drawing any clear conclusions. Nor does it do the experience from Norway. I therefore believe that it must initially be up to the individual municipality if it wants to compete with some of its services and, where appropriate, in what way it wants to do so. However, it is the Government's general position that it should be an objective that the provision of services is essentially a task to be addressed by the public. I'm also focusing on differentiating between sectors. Competition in the technical sector may in several cases be of good value, but I am very sceptical about putting out competition in the care and care sector. As an alternative to using large resources to facilitate competitive outsourcing, municipalities should rather focus on further developing their own services and, in particular, on organisation and management. I would also like to point out the experiment in Sørum and Steinkjer municipalities, where, in close cooperation with employees, conversion and efficiency will be achieved without competitive outsourcing. This allows employees’ experience to be used in ways that stimulate their creativity and creativity. I think interaction is the way to go to offer citizens better community services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e600	I thank the Minister for the answer, which unfortunately revealed a regrettable scepticism for more markets in the municipal sector. Last year, Norwegian municipalities made a deficit of DKK 10 billion, and more and more are now talking about Norwegian municipalities converting their service production away from monopoly life to market and competition-based solutions. It is a strange paradox that in Norway we are going to have these god-forsaken monopoly systems, that we are going to have to hold back these in the municipal sector precisely in important areas such as care and health where competition is really needed to stimulate higher quality and more cost-effectiveness. Indeed, the deliberate use of competition in all municipal services is proving to work well where such solutions are chosen, for example: in Farum. What in the world is so wrong with Norwegian municipalities if they do not tolerate competition from the private sector? And does the Norwegian Council of State really consider Norwegian municipalities so ineffective in everything they do, that they do not tolerate competition from private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e611	Yes, I am quite convinced that the public will tolerate competition from the private sector. That's actually not what it's about. It is about how best to organise the provision of public services. When the representative, Andersen, puts an equal footing between the 10 billion that the local government sector is short of, and the need for privatisation, it's going to be completely wrong. If Andersen’s representative believes that it is possible to reduce the cost level in the municipal sector by 10 billion through privatisation, then this must be done in the following way: either in the form of a severe wage reduction and an increased demand for the labour input of workers in the care and care sector or by a severe reduction in the provision of services. These are the two options available. Indeed, in the care sector, billions of inefficient operations are not wasted. On the contrary, the care and care sectors operate well in all, most municipalities. Secondly, we have already received enquiries from organisations that have a large proportion of private services in the care sector, which say that problems are already being encountered in the relationship between those who have taken a job and those who are giving the job in defining how it is to be resolved. This is also a challenge that we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e628	‘In the context of adoption, the parents involved must relate to a variety of instances and complete a large number of forms. This is perceived to be very labour-intensive and burdensome. The government has put in place a wide-ranging effort to ‘Simplify Norway’. Will the Council of State contribute to a review of the adoption procedures with a view to simplification?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e635	The goal of an adoption is, as you know, not to find children for parents, but to give children who need them, good parents. It follows from both the United Nations Children's Convention, the Hague Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in International Adoptions and, besides our own adoption law, that adoption rights can only give when adoption is likely to be in the best interests of the child. The adoption powers must, therefore, ensure, as far as possible, that the adoption applicants have the necessary resources and properties to provide a safe and healthy upbringing for the child. The guidelines governing the handling of applications for adoption are designed with regard to the child. In this case, it is necessary to set requirements for the adoption applicants. Those who want to adopt must turn to the municipality where they live. The municipality removes the searches and makes a reasoned recommendation for adoption. Applicants must be able to demonstrate that they have good health, good repute and a safe economy. It's so necessary with medical certificates, emptying police records, marriage certificates and an equation certificate. In addition, a birth certificate or baptism certificate, an own statement of health and a statement from the adoption organisation to distribute the adoption shall be provided. The social report from the municipality is important. When it comes to the adoption of Norwegian children, a person knows who the child to be placed is. This makes it easier to find the best parents for the child. For the adoption of children from abroad, a person usually does not know who the child is. It is therefore important that the information provided to the children’s country of origin gives a thorough impression of the seekers, so that the country is given the best possible basis for finding new parents for its children. I see that individual questions in the social report can be perceived as in-depth and difficult for some applicants to answer. What I have a bigger problem with understanding is if the searchers think it's premature for the adoption powers in Norway and the children's countries of origin to require this documentation. When I said this, I would say that I have seen for a long time that there is a need for a greater review and revision of the forms that are applicable in handling the application for adoption. This was further updated as a result of the adoption of a number of amendments by the Stortinget in 1999. I see that some forms can be made simpler and better. Of the many things common to domestic and foreign adoptions, it can also be useful with similar forms where possible. I think this would be a good help when it comes to facilitating the procedures of adoption. The government has started a wide range of work to get a simpler Norway. I'm glad to say that one of the projects there is just to see if one can simplify the forms that apply to adoption. This cooperation project with the State Youth and Adoption Office is well under way and is expected to be completed by the summer of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e654	I agree with the Council of State that the overall considerations to be taken into account in the context of adoption must be the focus of the whole process of dealing with adoption matters. But I'm also glad, as we see in the positive answer, that you're going through the forms used for adoption with a view to simplification, and that you're already actually seeing that this is a simplification potential. Since it became known that I was going to address this question in the Questionnaire, I have received a number of enquiries from parents saying that they understand that there are overall concerns to be taken care of, but at the same time – based on their experience – points to the possibilities of simplification, so that this becomes easier to deal with and less time-consuming to go through. My supplementary question to the Council of State is whether it is possible in this review to try to involve the adoption organisations with a view to obtaining user orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e663	I can answer yes, we have all sent letters to all the adoption organisations and asked them to come with reports for simplification. At present we have not received very many answers, but I hope that those who are members there, who are active, will influence the organizations to make suggestions to us. I can also contact them again and challenge them to ask if they want to come up with simplification proposals. At least the work is going well, and I hope we get results during the summer of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e668	Question 3 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e674	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Organisations working every day with young women and men threatened by the family to enter into arranged/compulsory marriages report that they are constantly meeting people in public utility, child protection, social services, police and foreign stations who are not aware of the problems or of the Government’s action plan against forced marriage. This has been documented, inter alia, by the organisation SEIF through their project «Between the bark and the wood». What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e683	It might be easier to answer what we've already done, which we hope will have an effect. In the case of awareness of the Government's action plan against forced marriage, launched in December 1998, it was sent to all states, municipalities and municipalities in the country and to a number of immigrant organisations just after the action plan was published. To what extent the beneficiaries have distributed the plan to the relevant authorities in municipalities and counties seems to vary, unfortunately. In February this year, the action plan was also sent to all youth schools and further schools in the country. When it comes to the knowledge that public authorities have about coerciveness, it's not as good everywhere. For this reason, a guide or circular should be sent to various public authorities on procedures for dealing with crisis situations that have arisen because young people are threatened with or subjected to forced marriage. It is important that there is a reception apparatus that knows what to do when young people in a crisis are looking for the public or when the extraterrestrial services send a youth home who has fled from a forced marriage. The school boards, the follow-up services, child protection, social services and the police must know who to contact and how to proceed. We have referred to that as an important effort that we prioritize this spring. Letters have also been sent to the county councils stressing their responsibility for child protection for those under the age of 18 who need temporary enrolment in emergency situations related to forced marriage. In addition to these measures, an information brochure will be issued on public coins. We've also engaged a person to systematize the experience of preventive work against coercion. This work has been started and will lead to the fall as an information and methodological booklet for all environments working with young people who can overcome this problem. In ours there will be a paper that mentions laws and conventions related to marriage, and another paper that will take a different view of marriage in different religions. In the Action Plan for Forced Marriage, the Chapter on Training and Competences contains six measures that describe how the Government will strengthen the competence for forced marriage among different occupational groups. These measures will be started before summer. When it comes to the foreign services, work is well under way to develop contacts with the government in relevant countries in order to quickly and efficiently handle specific issues where young people have to flee from the family in order to avoid coerciveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e702	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that this part of the work against coercion is a priority area in the spring half, not least because it now turns out that the action plan against coercion may have an additional effect in addition to that which was intended when I proposed in November 1997 to implement such a plan, that is, to have an action plan, so that voluntary organisations can also refer to it and use it as a breakpoint when they meet on reluctant parts of the public intervention and auxiliary equipment. What you know about these things is that they're so incredibly difficult because they require so many different public agencies to work together. These are children who may be taken out of school somewhere, moved to a secret address, get anonymity, start new school, make new friends — all change around them, and it's going to happen quickly in a given crisis situation. It requires that the response apparatus around the plan be aware of, and therefore it is so incredibly important that this is prioritised. I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Council of State Does the answer mean that this work will also take priority in the contact meetings that the Government will have in the future with different parts of county and municipal administration? [[(President clubs):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e711	The President will ask that one respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e714	It's natural that this will also be a theme in the different contexts that we meet the different ethos. I must honestly admit that I was a little shocked when I felt that one after another said that this plan had never been seen. We knew we had sent him, but it was the department that got the debt because they had not got him, even if he was sent. It says a little bit that this is not just sending a plan, here you have to work actively to make the plan work. I want to add that we also want to establish contact telephones and information centres both in Norway and Pakistan, so that we follow them not only here in the country, but also abroad. Those who are threatened and need help can call to find out where to turn to to get help to find the security of their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e724	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs:‘On 20 April 1999, on a proposal from the Right and the Socialist Left, the Council decided to ask the Government to present a report on the quality of life and the quality of life of lesbians and gays in Norway. There was broad consensus that there was an urgent need for a thorough review of the situation and concrete action to improve. It has now almost one year gone by without anything happening. When can we expect the Government to present the matter to the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e731	Sonja Irene Sjéli says in his question that nothing has happened, but of course it has. Work is in progress on the news of living conditions and quality of life for lesbians and gays in Norway. The message background is a research report from the Norwegian Institute for Growth, Welfare and Ageing - NOVA. The report shows, among other things: that lesbians and homosexuals have poorer health and more frequent anxiety and depression than the common population. It was also found that many young homosexuals had problems accepting and recognizing themselves, and more have attempted suicides than in the general population. The aim of the big shot is to shed light on lesbian and gay living conditions and living conditions in a broad perspective through research-based knowledge. Furthermore, in the light of this knowledge, the aim is to assess and propose measures to improve the quality of life of lesbians and gays, and I aim to send the Stortinget in the autumn of 2000. So the work is in progress, and I expect that the message will also contain measures that will improve the situation that the NOVA report shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e740	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I am satisfied that the work with the big message is well under way, but I expected it to go a little faster. There was a broad consensus in the Storting a year ago that it was urgent to get concrete action on the table to improve the situation, precisely in the light of what the Council of State also had to say, that this is a group of different health problems such as anxiety, depression and also the fact that many young homosexuals and lesbians commit suicide. This is a serious situation for many young people. Since a year has passed and you have worked as thoroughly as the Council of State here suggests, is it possible for the Council of State to suggest what measures it considers necessary? After a year, I think the Council of State has some thoughts about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e749	I don't think it's usual for a half a year before a big message comes up with the measures that you're going to propose, but I can say a little bit about what we've already done. We are in the process of sending out a big message, but we have seen some other measures that will probably help those that are in force. The first thing we did from the Ministry's side was to support a national youth conference that was in May 1999, and it was a very short time after the debate in Stortinget. As a follow-up to that conference, we have also had a dialogue with LLH on how to finance their youth work, because they fall between two chairs when it comes to financial support. In addition, there was a number on Stortinget that re-prioritized the vows, so LLH gets $100,000 more this year than they got last year. I guess it was almost a bunch of stuff that was behind it. In this way, the National Educational Centre has also developed teaching materials for teachers in the basic school who address this problem. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e754	The President would point out that respecting speaking time also applies to the Councils of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e761	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘It is now becoming more common for fathers to have daily care and parental responsibility for children. Daily care for children is difficult to reconcile with being single parents while at the same time performing military service. Protective laws do not take such considerations into account. If adequate care provision cannot be found, there will be a case for child protection. Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the law on compulsory protection outweighs that of the child?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e770	I want to tell the President that it is not easy to answer these questions, because they are often quite complicated. First of all, I would like to point out that the protection law actually falls within the competence of the Minister of Defence. Protective laws do not regulate the rights of the guardians in the case of children's liability in the context of military service, but there are specific rules to that effect. Protective child care personnel who are therefore unable to carry out their duties through first-time and repetition exercises are, in the light of decisions taken by the Stortinget, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 1990-91, given certain courts. The following privileges are assigned: 1st@item: inlistbox A guardian who takes care of a child on his own shall be suspended for the first time as long as he has custody and until the end of the year of his compulsory retirement 33 years. 2nd@item: inlistbox If a child is subject to compulsory care, an attempt to place the protected person so close to his hometown as to be able to obtain home builder status, or to provide him with the shortest possible service time. 3rd@item: inlistbox A guardian who avails himself of the statutory right to care leave from his/her work may suspend all military service for as long as the care permit lasts. 4th@item: inlistbox Rehearsal exercises shall be conducted by children’s nursing staff if the department is unable to provide flexible leave arrangements to meet the child’s needs for care in practice in the same way as otherwise. This also applies if the guardian has temporarily taken care of the child because the other caregiver is unable to fit children because of his or her own work situation, study or illness. In this case, heavy weight grounds are required. The responsibility for childcare is, as a starting point, similar to that of women and men, and the benefit of the employer to the other caregiver or caregiver’s own priorities cannot be equated with the obligations imposed by the protection obligation on the individual. I therefore believe that the rules on compulsory protection take good enough care of the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e798	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although it was not an answer to my question, because I ask her if she believes that the law on protective duty should weigh more heavily than the child's concern. I am also aware that the defence has set out guidelines on how to deal with this, but it is just that there are very different practices regarding how this is treated. Now this is a very small group, so you could say that that's maybe one of the reasons why you haven't gone so deep into the question. What's the big problem is not so much the first time service, but the rehearsal exercises. Here it's been very random how you've done it. The reason I did not ask the question to the Minister of Defence, but to the Minister of Children and Family, is this with regard to the child. Does she feel that consideration for the child should take precedence?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e805	I actually think that the points I mentioned in my answer show that a person takes care of the child in those cases where it is necessary to do so. If the practice is very different, I will take up with the Minister of Defense how this is being practised, because it is obvious that if one stands there without help, has been called in to rehearsal practice, has children and sole responsibility or otherwise depends on being able to care for his child, I feel that the law is there for it to be practised. If the practice is too bad, we have to go through it. We don't necessarily have to change the law to practice this in the best way for the child in the first place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e815	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘Dad’s right to birth benefit is currently dependent on whether or not Mother has worked or not during pregnancy. It is announced that the rights of a father will now be improved by a change in the law. There has been an economic problem for father to take leave when mother has not been in work and cannot take care of the child herself. Does the Council of State agree that the above conditions should give father the right to maternity allowance and that this is taken into account in the amendment of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e824	The representative, Nakkim, indicates that there is a change in the law of popular security that will open up for several fathers to be entitled to birth and adoption money. The proposal was mentioned in the budgetproposal for 2000 and was endorsed by the European Parliament during the budgetary procedure. I am pleased that the necessary funds were provided to introduce the independent right of observation for fathers from 1 July 2000, a matter many have talked about for many years, but no one has done anything about it before we did so in the budget this year. As a follow-up to the budgetary decision, the Ministry is working to present a draft budget at the end of March. The proposal has not yet been fully processed in the Government. The central thing is that a mother should no longer be required to have the right to a birth grant in order for the father to be correct. However, in order for the right to father to be released, there must be a real need for care after birth. Father shall not be entitled to maternity and adoption benefits in situations where mother is at home and takes care of the child at the same time. As a warning in the budget, situations where the mother goes into work or education after birth may trigger a right for father. I see that there may be a real need for care even in situations where the mother is totally dependent on help to care for the child because of illness. This situation will also be assessed in the context of the Odelstungsproposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e833	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that she now also includes the cases where Dad is at work, but where he can still come under the new law on earned rights in cases where mother is ill, where she may be ill, and where it is declared that she cannot take care of the child alone. I expect, after the answer I received from the Council of State, that this will be duly addressed in the bill change proposal, and that we will come back to it when this proposition is made in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e845	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: «The Land Government opened in 1998 for the sale of shares in enterprises in which the State holds participations. The adultås statement says it is an advantage that most companies in which the state is on the owner's side also have an element of private owners. North Cape Minerals has submitted a bid to the public limited-liability company Olivin's mineral activities in Åheim. Will the Government consider the sale of holdings in Olivin?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e854	The government has long signaled that it may be appropriate to reduce the State’s ownership interest in A/S Olivin. I refer in this connection to the review of A/S Olivin given in St.meld. No 18 for 1998-99, Enterprises in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has interests. North Cape Minerals AS showed early interest in purchasing A/S Olivin and has now made a concrete offer with a deadline of 24 March to purchase A/S Olivin’s mineral activities on a debt-free basis at a price of 800 million. kr. North Cape Minerals has stated that they are also willing to discuss other transfer options. It lies in this, among other things. that North Cape Minerals AS does not want to take over Moxy Trucks AS. Before proceeding with this matter, I have attributed A/S Olivin to ask for the board's view on the offer from North Cape Minerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e863	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think there's such a difference between the views of the Left and the Advance Party on the importance of getting private, competent owners into traditional Norwegian industrial activities, because it would be enriching for these environments. You can then get professional forces that see the possibilities of savings, improvements, etc. and can improve the competitiveness of businesses, even though we know that Olivin is a solid company. The interesting thing here is how far the government wants to go. One thing is what the Left wants to do, but what could the Government think of doing? In the event of partial privatization – it is not certain that it is just North Cape Minerals, there may also be other interests inside the picture – would you like to stop by a state holding of 51 p.m., i.e. the Hydro model, or would you like to go further, as the Progress Party wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e872	It's true that Olivin is a good company. It's 100 pst. state owned and engaged in a very profitable harvesting activity of mineral olive oil. It is the government's view that there is an enterprise that should also have further development opportunities. This can best be done by bringing with you other owners who are not only able to raise capital but can also bring in competences, both towards the market, towards operations and in all ways. We have a very good dialogue about this with Olivin – the board of Olivin – who is working on different solutions for this. In this regard, we have received this offer from the North Cape Minerals. Of course, it will be assessed and looked at in such a context, but we have not yet come to any conclusions as to how we should proceed with this. Let me also say that Olivin operates within an area that has great development potential in Norway, and we should perhaps look even more offensively at how we can achieve an interaction that enables us to exploit the industrial opportunities of the mineral industries. Both Olivin and the capital of Olivin can be a basis for creating new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e881	Then we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e887	This question, from the representative Erna Solberg to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e890	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In at least one case, a Norwegian foreign station has been informed that they cannot cover flight home for a 14-year-old girl kidnapped from Norway who is under threat of being forced into marriage in the father’s country of origin. History documented by the Organisation Self-help for Immigrants and Refugees [[SEIF]] Will the Council of State ensure that in similar cases embassies and other Norwegian foreign stations will cover repatriation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e899	This question was originally addressed to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, as the President said, but was transferred to me, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this kind of assistance to Norwegian citizens abroad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs treats each year a number of cases where young people contact Norwegian foreign stations requesting help in situations where the family is seeking to marry them under coercion. It is usually about Norwegian citizens with a migrant background. In some of these cases, the question of cover for repatriation has arisen. Coverage has been found for the return journey in all these cases within the Ministry's own budgetary framework. After a concrete assessment on a case-by-case basis, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue to go far in the future to cover the cost of repatriation in such cases. In the specific case referred to by the representative of Solberg, both the Ministry and the foreign station concerned have been presented with the problem as a child abduction case. Case concerning parental rights is currently pending before Oslo Byrett. The further handling of the case by the EEAS will depend on the content of a forceful Norwegian judgment. The claim that there may have been a question of coercion has not yet been brought before the department or foreign station, whether it be the mother's lawyer or the young girl's case. Both have been in regular contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the embassy concerned, respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e912	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it was used diplomatic terms when you say that you wanted to try to cover the expenses in such cases. In view of the fact that we have an action plan against coercion, where the work of embassies is also a high priority, it should be quite clear that in such situations it should not be stated that a network, parents or volunteers should have to leave the money at home in order to enable them to return. I understand that there is disagreement related to single examples. This is one example, but of course an important example. There is a 14-year-old girl in Lebanon who has been abducted for nine months now, after living her whole life in Norway, and who sees for herself that there is a threat of being forced into marriage, among other things. is one of the purposes of her being kidnapped. The case is settled by the Court of Justice. It's the mother who has the daily care. And I hope that the embassy in this case shows a slightly greater commitment, but that the principle that embassies cover repatriation in such individual matters is settled once and for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e921	Now I don't think I necessarily used such diplomatic language when I said that we have now covered the expenses in all cases. But we don't have a budget line for repatriation of people at risk of coercion, so the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must cover this within its regular budgetary framework. And then I've learned that as Minister of Foreign Affairs, I should express myself in terms that do not bind up the Government and put leadership towards Stortinget, which I am not allowed to do. But we see this as serious things and do what we can. As far as this specific matter is concerned, I will of course follow it further, because it is clear that there are different information here. As I said, we have not been asked to help this cock because she is under threat of being coerced. In concrete terms, we have been asked to cover the return trip for, I think it was, seven family members, among other things. a few brothers and sisters who have never lived in Norway. We couldn't do that. But the question was not that she should be co-married at all, and I will of course look at this matter again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e931	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘Already before the formation of the Austrian Government, the Norwegian Government announced that Norwegian bilateral contact with Austria was to be ‘frozen’ at a low level. A number of contacts have been lost. What is needed for the resumption of contacts and is it independent of the future actions of the Austrian Government?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e940	When the Norwegian Government has chosen to impose restrictions on bilateral political relations with Austria in line with the EU countries, this is due to the need to distance itself from the racist and nationalist flows that the Freedom Party advocates. The measures are intended as a signal to the Austrian Government. It is not desirable to cut off Austria as a democratic country from participation in the international community and from purely professional cooperation. The restrictions therefore apply only to bilateral relations and only to political contacts. We stress that the measures should not affect cooperation within the OSCE, where Austria currently holds the Presidency. The Government has stressed that European countries are united and coordinate their actions to the greatest extent possible. From the Norwegian side, it is therefore not desirable to lay down a peculiar set of criteria for the suspension of the measures. The policies of the EU countries will therefore be given considerable importance in our own assessment of the trends that could lead to changes in our relationship with Austria. We are in close and constant contact with both the EU and with other countries on this issue. The policy of the Austrian Government will be an important element in our assessment of the continuation of these measures. We have noticed that, on the part of the government parties, a joint declaration has been signed in which we are committed to fundamental European values and attitudes. However, it must also be expected that Haider or the new party management will unambiguously deviate from previous opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e951	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. The ratio is that a number of these statements from Haider he has corrected or lamented. These are opinions which are partly nine years old. On the other hand, we have in our immediate territory Russia, which is responsible for the killing and abuse of its own citizens, we still see that on the television screens. For the third time, the Russians are hunting the Chechens out of their own country. There we hear nothing about isolation, but, if possible, contact. Why should we practice this double morality and the double standard?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e960	I believe that the measures that the EU has now taken, and we have joined, are precisely to avoid double standards and morals. Here the EU shows that they take questions about values, attitudes and human rights as seriously within their own group as they do towards the candidate countries. I think it's a very important signal, and my understanding is also that some of the candidate countries have just noticed this, and despite all of this, have seen this as positive. It is true that, at times, Haider has complained about some statements, but it has not been clear. It has also been done in different ways and in different contexts, but it has not become clear that it is being taken together away from what has been the government's policy so far. The opinions I'm sitting with are as fresh as from 1998, and that's not the old, out-of-date statements. It is also important to remember that Russia is not a member of the EU and can hardly be in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e974	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘A journalist in Moscow Department of Radio Liberty, Andrei Babitsky, disappeared in the war zone in Chechnya on 16 January 2000. The Russian press announced on 4 February 2000 that the journalist had been handed over to Chechen rebel forces in exchange for three Russian prisoners of war. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs pursue this matter in the OSCE or any other context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e983	Journalist Andrei Babitsky returned to Moscow a week ago today. We are pleased that Babitsky has now come to an end and is back with his family. However, I will not fail to point out that the Babitsky case gives rise to serious concerns. It's been taken up a number of times in the OSCE context. The OSCE has, as you know, its own representative for the free media, and it has been very active with the Russian authorities in this matter. The case still has some unexplained pages. It's hard to say what aftergame it's going to get in the Russian legal system. Although it does not seem natural to pursue the Babitsky affair further in the OSCE or in other contexts, this case shows that we must always be on guard against violations of human rights in general and of freedom of the press in particular. Free and independent media are an important part of a viable democracy. Many countries continue to have difficulties in complying with international commitments in this area. Over the last few years, the OSCE has placed considerable emphasis on strengthening its efforts to promote freedom of the press and the media. Current breaches and breaches of the OSCE obligations have been addressed, while providing advice and assistance to those countries that have needed it. This was also a central and important priority under the Norwegian OSCE Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e992	When this matter is so important, of course, it is because it is a case of a dramatic deterioration of the situation in Russia. A civil court case with Jelena Bonner in the head has brought this up, and in a coup d'état to the West it is called among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «We appeal to the authorities and the public in the West. We ask them to reconsider the attitude of the Kremlin leadership, we ask them no longer to close their eyes to the barbaric actions of the Kremlin, to the degradation of democracy and the suppression of human rights. In particular, we are asking for the support of the democratic world to stop the war in Chechnya, to restore freedom of the press and, again, to give free employment to civil rights defenders and to national minorities.' What is the Foreign Minister's response to the challenges of Jelena Bonner, Sergei Kovalyev and the other human rights fighters in Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1004	I think it is very important that we support the initiatives taken by Jelena Bonner and other civil rights defenders in Russia now in this specific situation, but also in general. That's something we do bilaterally. Of course, I have discussed human rights issues regularly with my Russian colleague when we had meetings, not least this has been addressed in relation to the situation in Chechnya, from which we are taking a sharp distance. But I also think it is important to address it in multilateral contexts. I believe it is important that the OSCE's work continues actively, that Russia be presented with the demands and obligations it has towards the OSCE. The recent signals of closer and new cooperation between Russia and NATO, I think, are also important in terms of human rights. We are going to do what we can on the Norwegian side, in order to work for the further development of human rights in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1012	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘In the United States, plans to use 100 billion have been submitted. crowns to continue the development of a national rocket defence. Vardø Globe II has been used to develop this, and several independent sources believe this radar is still included. There is a strong response to the rocket defence programme from NATO countries as well as Russia and China. The background for this is the fear of a new nuclear race. What is done to stop the rocket defence plans and to ensure that Norway is not involved in the race?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1021	The ABM agreement between Russia and the United States is a cornerstone of the international agreement on stability, disarmament and non-proliferation. It is therefore important that this agreement should continue to be protected. The U.S. missile defence plans have updated questions about the adaptation of the ABM agreement between the United States and Russia. Such adaptation would require the agreement of both parties. The two countries are now discussing this issue. It's our hope that Russia and the United States will come to an agreement in a way that will further the ABM agreement. On the American side, it has been rejected that the Globe II radar has been tested in an ABM role, or will have such a role in the future. I would like to remind you that the Globus II radar is disposed of by Norway, operates under Norwegian control and will be manned exclusively by Norwegian personnel. The Government will not allow the Globus II radar to be used in a manner contrary to the ABM Agreement. The US plans for a limited national rocket defence, the so-called NMD, are based on an American assessment of an increasing threat from, among others, the US. North Korea and Iraq for a limited attack with long-range missiles equipped with weapons of mass destruction or conventional warheads. According to the U.S. authorities, the NMD system, if deployed, will only provide effective defence against a few warheads. Therefore, according to the US authorities, it will not affect the strategic balance between the US and Russia. The United States has not yet taken a decision to build a national NMD defence. Both Norway and other countries have expressed to the US authorities that any NMD defence raises many questions, including with regard to the impact on the ABM agreement. Although the decision on an NMD system will be a national American decision, together with other allies, we have underlined the need for thorough consultations in NATO on the US plans before the US takes its decision. This has been agreed by the United States, and has already informed its allies in NATO about the status of NMD planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1038	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. After the open source says, one can go into the U.S. budget and read that one has spent $1 billion on the project attached to Vardø. Going into Norwegian intelligence budget, you will find a 50 million move. kr. So the Americans are investing a lot of money in this project, and it would be strange for this representative if the Americans weren't going to get a good deal of money for it when Norway itself invests so little. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to comment on that. Point 2: It's bad news about what Americans think of Globe II. Experts speaking to the New York Times say that Globe II is and will be used to trace and collect information on Russian nuclear missiles and can thus be linked to it. I would like the Foreign Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1047	As you know, the very operation of the Globus II is the responsibility of the Minister of Defence, and I must admit that I do not have detailed knowledge of the budgets in connection with the Globus II. But I don't think there's any doubt that this is an expensive installation, and that the Americans here have paid a lot of money – if this is exactly 1 billion, I can neither confirm nor cancel. In the NATO context, I would like to say that it is interesting, also for the United States, that Norway has a good intelligence system as well as the other measures for which this radar is to be used. And as you know, there's already a radar in Vardø, so in that context, this isn't something special. But this is part of our usual defence cooperation between the United States and Norway. I'm aware that there's a disagreement or that different information has emerged in the United States, but what I can confirm is that the United States does not get information in real time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1054	So we're going to go to questions 33 and 34.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1060	This question, from the representative of Elsa Scarbøvik to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1063	I will then ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘UNCTAD X was held in Bangkok on 12 and 19 February 2000, where the Council of State was also present. The conference focused in particular on trade and development. What opportunities did the conference provide for the resumption of WTO negotiations on the basis of the principles agreed in Bangkok?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1072	In Bangkok, the importance of the WTO and freer world trade was widely welcomed. This gives benefits to all countries, especially developing countries. On the Norwegian side, we hope that the successful UNCTAD X conference in Bangkok will also have a positive impact on the negotiating climate in the WTO. An open, non-discriminatory trading system will also provide better market access for goods and services of particular interest to developing countries. The conference recommended that all countries and international organisations do their utmost to ensure that all countries, especially the least developed countries, are better integrated into the world economy. It was also noted that the accession procedures to the WTO should be simplified and the need to provide technical assistance to developing countries. It was further agreed that a new round of multilateral trade negotiations should take account of the development dimension. Ensuring rapid progress in all these issues remains, according to the Declaration, a priority task for the international community. A separate action plan was also developed in Bangkok for the further work of UNCTAD on trade and development. This document included: the introduction of references to duty-free and quota-free market access for almost all products from the least developed countries. This is well in line with Norwegian vision. As you know, UNCTAD is not a negotiating body. The real negotiations will take place in the WTO. The discussions at UNCTAD X took place in a constructive atmosphere. The achievement of consensus was in itself positive, not least in view of the problems associated with the WTO Ministerial Conference in Seattle last December.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1093	I agree that UNCTAD X in Bangkok was a successful conference, and that finally a declaration was agreed that particularly developing countries should be better integrated into the world economy. The developing countries themselves are concerned about and want more influence and participation, including in the WTO. When UNCTAD's Secretary-General, Rubens Ricupero, calls the conference a "healing process" after Seattle, I understand that it became a stronger emphasis on the need to strengthen the multilateral system in general, and that the conference acted as a forum for North-South debate, especially on financial issues and trade and development. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how Norway is now following this up by taking more account of the development dimension. It is natural for the WTO to contribute more to its own programmes to integrate the poorest countries — and how does it strengthen the capacity of the WTO to build skills in order to improve the capacity of developing countries to participate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1102	I think it's right, as Scarbøvik's representative says, that there was a need for a healing process after Seattle. It is also true that if we are to start the negotiations again, I think it must be facilitated for a wider participation, not least from developing countries. I believe that the WTO itself has understood and taken inwards, but that is also something we want to follow up on the Norwegian side. We want to follow up on this, among other things. by helping developing countries in terms of capacity for negotiation, through seminars and opportunities to provide them with knowledge. In addition to that, we are now working on the participation process, so that we can get a wider participation in the negotiations in relation to what we saw in Seattle. We will also involve non-governmental organisations and other multilateral organisations, so that this can become as broad a process as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1112	This question, from Erik Solheim to the Minister for Development and Human Rights, will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Development and Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1115	I will be asked the following questions: ‘What initiatives will Norway take, for example in the United Nations, to build a better preparedness for rapid assistance to disaster areas such as Mozambique?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1122	The flood disaster in Mozambique has once again shown that the international community is running late on the necessary disaster response. Furthermore, developments in emergency work in Mozambique have shown that the funds are available, but they are not mobilised quickly enough. In order to help the international community react rapidly, Norway provides an annual cash contribution — for the current year of 4.5 million. kr – made available to the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, OCHA. These means of preparedness enable the UN to start emergency aid immediately, as in the case of Mozambique. Norway was also among the first countries to provide direct help to Mozambique. Our contribution to the flood disaster in the region is already up to over 17 million. kr. OCHA's group of friends will have their next meeting in Norway on 21 and 22 March. There we will encourage other countries both to make cash contributions to OCHA for emergency purposes and to follow-up quickly with additional appropriations when a natural disaster occurs. OCHA has highlighted the need for such contributions in the last few days in order to be able to start emergency work rapidly. In a broader context, I can refer to the work on prevention started under the auspices of the World Bank, in order to reduce disaster risk in developing countries. Norway actively supports this initiative and will emphasise that its work on prevention is taking place in close cooperation with the UN disaster preparedness system. Otherwise, we will continue to support the UN Disaster Assessment and Coordination Team, the so-called UNDAC, where Norway currently has seven members. One of them is now in Mozambique. There is also cooperation between Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and the United Kingdom in civil protection, including: must support the UN's disaster response. We believe that there can be stronger exchange of views on this cooperation mechanism in the context of international emergency response. The Directorate for Civil Protection is in the process of strengthening its capacity in this field. Former humanitarian disasters, whether man-made or pure natural disasters, have shown us that military-civil cooperation is important in order to achieve the most effective and coordinated response possible. We will work towards strengthening this cooperation, so that we are better able to react quickly in crisis situations. Better international preparedness for natural disasters is undoubtedly necessary. Norway will work actively to improve the effectiveness of emergency response systems and to reduce the response time. At the same time, we will work towards ensuring a broad funding base for international preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1141	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. But I think it's too puzzled. It's very hard to get rid of the idea that what happened in Mozambique is because it's in Africa. A similar disaster in an economic, political or military core area would cause a much faster and more powerful response. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs says is the more of the same thing that has not really worked in this situation. If the Norwegian Security Council candidate is to make sense, is it not precisely this kind of thing that we should be able to address? And is not the answer to these kinds of disasters that need to be further built on the last thing that was said, namely military-civil cooperation, and that some sort of regional system must be built that allows African countries of the type South Africa, Nigeria or others to intervene in Africa, Latin American countries in Latin America, Asian countries in Asia, etc., but where the bill is paid by the world community, and where the initiative for this is taken in a more powerful way from New York?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1148	The representative of Solheim is very demanding. I don't know if I can entirely agree with him when he says this is puzzled. I agree that we should bet, and he may be right that we react differently in Africa than elsewhere. But at the same time, it is clear that right now the financial resources are not the problem in Mozambique, but it is coordination and organisation, and that is what is important. I don't think, with all due respect, the first thing we're going to do is create a new device, a new organization. OCH are going to be such a coordinating organisation. I think it's important that we strengthen that apparatus, at least at first, to see if it's possible to use it. Then I agree that consideration should be given to the possibility of a regional approach in this area as well. But we're all familiar with how weak, for example. OAU is standing, and that is why I think we should at first strengthen OCHA, and then we have to work on the regional issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1157	We go back to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1163	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘It is clear from the UN on 29 February 2000 that some commuters are forced to move, Norwegian passports are refused and stand without a fixed stay and postal address because of their weekly commuter status. The amendments to the commuting regulations to which they are addressed will be suitable for correcting them?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1172	The ongoing work on changes to the regulations on population registration and the rules on residence for tax purposes aims to increase the requirements on what should be considered as an independent dwelling. These changes will lead to greater demands for the housing disposed of at the place of work for lone persons over 22 years of age in order to be regarded as independent of the other independent dwellings they have in another municipality. This will make it easier to be seen as commuting than under the rules that apply today. The deadline for the hearing was 1 March 2000. Hearing replies are now under assessment in the ministry. The rules on passports are governed by the Minister of Justice. Uncertainty about the location of a person’s fixed stay may have different effects, e.g. when processing a passport application. Clearer rules on residence, but more liberal rules for commuters, could also have a positive impact on such legislative areas. However, the legislation on the issue of passports does not change through this regulatory work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1179	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am aware that the regulations are out of consultation, and that the date for it expired on 1 March. But in my opinion, it's very urgent to get these things cleaned up in terms of commuting status. A number of questions have been raised in Stortinget, with which the Minister of Finance is well aware, and to which he has given profound answers. But we have repeatedly seen that these commuting regulations and the regulations we have today are causing great unrest, and people are being forced to move. And now when we also see that they don't get issued passports, just temporary passports, it is in my opinion in high time that you intervene and put the cabinet in place – literally. I must also mention that I now have a letter from a well-known contractor in Norway, which includes: says the commuters can't stay on the rack at weekends. [[The President clubs]] This has to be cleaned up. I hope that the Storting will now be presented with these regulations as soon as possible. [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1188	The President will ask that one respect the speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1191	There's not much more I can say as Minister of Finance about these regulatory work that's going on. I feel pretty sure that once we have made new regulations, the problem of commuting status etc. at least be significantly more tidy and straightforward than it has been so far. I agree that there has been an unreasonable outcome of the regulations that have been in force in the past, and the practice of them. With regard to the look-up in the nation with the title of Duste-Norway, I think the reality there is a little bit caricatured. I can't go into what's going on with passports, because it's the Minister of Justice's field – he's in the Chamber. But from my experience of a previous life in the police and the county seat, I don't recognize myself in describing how difficult it should be, for example. to obtain passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1201	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions: ‘In a report by the Ministry of Agriculture, State Forest was given little credit in connection with the establishment by the Defence Agency of Rena Leir in Åmot. Will the Council of State initiate the clarification of State Forest's responsibilities as landowner and thus contribute sufficient land to make changes, as foreseen by the Stortinget by the Decision to establish the Region Field of the East in the Grey Mountain?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1210	I mean, budget-inner. S. No 8 for 1995-96 the majority of the Economic and Social Committee pointed out that difficulties often arise when the State binds private areas by extension or conservation decisions and that the State at Statskog SF had to show greater willingness to make changes with the landowners who have built up or tied up their land. The contested decision took the following steps: ‘The government is encouraged to step in more actively to resolve land issues by makeshift, where the government binds private areas by extension or conservation measures.’ During the examination of the notification of the coniferous forest protection, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment had the following proposals in the Inst. S. No 220 for 1995-96: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that State Forest SF and the Information Society Fund make land available for change-over arrangements.’ At the Business Meeting in Stadskog SF on 11 June 1996, it was decided that Stateskog SF should make available new land and that the Board of Directors should identify appropriate forms and principles for the practice of makeshifts and follow-up to the decision of the Storting. On 30 May 1995, the State Forest and the Ministry of Defence agreed that the defence would primarily provide the necessary land for the change of husbandry through voluntary agreements between private landowners and that State Forest would contribute to the residual area needed to meet the total need. It was clarified between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Agriculture that through the agreement, Statskog would not be obliged to contribute to the maintenance of large forest properties for non-resident owners. In the subsequent make-shift and land change process, the Information Society's fund sold 13 000 daa, which was operated by Statskog. Except for this, Statskog gave away 5,000 daa in a triangle shift. The reason why there was no need for larger areas for these groups of owners was that the defence was purchased by voluntary agreements with other landowners. In 1997, the Ministry of Agriculture appointed a sample to evaluate the Arbitration Change case, including the needs and availability of makeshift land in connection with the establishment of Rena clay on Rødsmoen. The evaluation report was submitted on 19 August 1998. In the opinion of the sample, Statskog did not participate actively enough in the makeshift process. The sample suggests that it would have been cheaper for the country to acquire new land from State forests than from private ones. I do not automatically agree with the sample assessment and believe that Statskog has acted in accordance with the agreement concluded with the Defence and the leadership that Stortinget has drawn up. State forest is organised as a state enterprise under the State Enterprise Act. The organisation means that the entity is a separate legal entity from the country. This includes, inter alia: full compensation is payable in the event of State interference with the properties. For the treatment of St. Announcement. No 11 for 1998-99 on the Eastern Region, the majority of the Defence Committee expressed its opinion at the Innst. S. No 129 for 1998-99 that it is necessary ‘that the State forest and the Information Society Fund forest contribute to makeshift’. The guidelines drawn up by the Storting will be followed up in further work. State forest had a meeting with the Defence Building Service on 6 May 1999 and has recently dated 11 February 2000 to the Defence Building Service proposed that a meeting be held to discuss the framework for further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1246	I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I am mainly very pleased with. I agree with the Council of State that there is no reason to interfere with who is to blame and not, in the process that has been before. I have two clarifications that I would like to include. One is that the Council of State as a member of the College of Government could help to get appropriations in place to make it possible to make these changes. That's now one thing. But more importantly, perhaps in this context is the last sentence in the Council's response, on a meeting between the Defence Building Service and the State Forest. There I would like to see the association of the landowners also involved in those meetings at an early stage, so that the misunderstandings that I believe are some of the cause of the dissatisfaction that has sometimes been associated with these very large changes in the makeup of the defence establishment at Rena – if the Council of State would contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1253	I understand that the representative Hernæs and the Council of State agree on the understanding of the reality of what has happened, and on the challenges we have in the future. When it comes to the question of appropriations, the Minister of Agriculture cannot answer this, but at least I will take it further with me in the processes we have ahead of us. Otherwise, when it comes to connecting the landowners at an earlier time, I'm concerned that in this kind of case that we're here to deal with, it's very important that you have a close and good cooperation with the landowners who are being affected. And to the extent that there's a need to connect them closer than they've been so far, I'm going to take that signal with me and see what we can do in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1283	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1289	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The Judicial Committee underlined in Innst. S. No 4 that significant changes in the monitoring service cannot take place until this has been addressed by the Storting. [[1999 - 2000]] On 26 October 1999, the Ministry of Justice sent out a number of questions on an additional consultation round, such as the issue of the vigilance and surveillance services. Can the Council of State promise that none of the changes mentioned in this letter will be carried out before the Grand Council has considered the reorganisation of the Police Monitoring Service in a total context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1298	The Government-appointed Danielsen Committee recommends in its investigation that changes be made to the organisation of the monitoring service. The Committee also discusses, based on the resources, contact networks and competences of the service, whether the tasks of the monitoring service should be restricted or extended. As part of the follow-up by the Ministry of Justice to the evaluations and recommendations of the sample, the Ministry sent out on 26 October 1999 a letter of consultation on certain matters of an organisational and task character in the police surveillance service. The letter, which was sent to the head of surveillance, to the chief of police in Oslo and later to the national lawyer, requested opinions on the responsibilities of the monitoring service in the Oslo police district, the regional organisation of the surveillance service in the East, the bodyguard service and the need to coordinate, where appropriate, the monitoring service, technical sections and IT sections with similar functions in the Oslo police district. Based on the hearing opinions received and the hearing opinions of the police officers to the Danielsen Committee, I have, after a full assessment, concluded that the Monitoring Centre should continue to be responsible for the monitoring service in the Oslo Police District. It is also not relevant to merge the monitoring centre's surveillance service, technical sections and IT sections with similar functions at the Oslo Police District. On the other hand, I have decided to transfer the entire service to Oslo Police District. The service is today divided between the Oslo Police District, which is responsible for the Royal Police Card, and the Monitoring Centre. In this context, I add, among other things. crucial emphasis on the fact that it does not seem rational to have two lifeguard units organised under different police units and that the surveillance service should concentrate fully on its primary tasks, such as: counter-intelligence, counter-terrorism, counselling and analysis. The issues addressed here will be presented to the Stortinget in the revised national budget. Issues relating to the future regional and local organisation of the surveillance service need to be considered in the context of the future division of districts into the police, and will be addressed in the forthcoming policing report on the police. In addition, the Ministry is working on a proposal on the tasks of the monitoring service. This proposition will be promoted in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1318	The bodyguards of the Monitoring Centre benefit from the short lines of communication of the counter-terrorism section of the service. Some of the officials are working on terrorist-related work during the periods they are not involved in bodyguard missions. It is therefore necessary to consider the service as an integral part of the work of the surveillance service and therefore it would also be a significant change if it were closed before the Stortinge case was discussed in a wider context. I have registered the way the Minister of Justice is now building down the surveillance service. POT’s operations are broken down into pieces, which are then removed one by one, under the condition that they individually do not form a significant part of the monitoring service’s activities. It is of course a good thing that we get this case to be assessed in the revised national budget, but it is dealt with by the Stortingen Finance Committee and does not allow us to look at the monitoring service's activities in a complete context, as the Stortinget has asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1325	I'm not familiar with the image that I'm building down the police surveillance service. I have repeatedly stressed the importance of this pulpit. I have recently made known through the media a threat assessment the police surveillance service has provided, and which I provide as an independent justification for the importance of the service. With regard to the amendments mentioned, I do not see the issue of the bodyguard service as as significant as the representative Simonsen does. But I have nevertheless come to the conclusion that it needs to be presented in the way I have explained, namely in the revised national budget. All the other changes, if I had come to any conclusions that would have been different, I would have perceived them as significant, for example. depriving the surveillance service in Oslo police district. When I haven't done that, it's because, just like the representative Simonsen, I have the simple idea that even if you're going to do an analysis, you also have to have your finger in the ground, literally, to do a good police job in this area as well. I myself believe that I am promoting a stronger service with an increased emphasis on analytical function, as the modern terror picture requires, while maintaining good old-fashioned police work. But Stortinget gets the chance in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1335	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Borgarting Lawyers turned a sentence from Sarpsborg city law from three weeks of unconditional imprisonment to five-six months of unconditional imprisonment. The charges were against a family of three as well as gross and simple theft. Does the Council of State consider on a general basis that punishment for the use of violence and assault on innocent people is sufficient to take into account ‘general preventive’ considerations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1344	I am somewhat uncertain about how the question from the representative Stang should be understood. I assume that the punishment in the judgments referred to is a sufficient response to such unprovoked violence that we are facing here. As the representative, Mr Stang, is aware, I cannot comment on the decisions of the courts in specific cases. On a general basis, I would like to remind you that in determining the sentence in each case, the courts do not only focus on general preventive considerations, i.e.: consideration of the general lawfulness, but also of other circumstances, so that the punishment becomes as appropriate, fair and fair as possible. Having said that, I would like to stress that I have stated several times that it should be reacted strictly to unprovoked violence. Regulators should be clearly informed that such brutal and reckless behaviour is totally unacceptable. I trust that the courts when they measure punishment, place due emphasis on general preventive considerations, and I have found that the Supreme Court in several cases has recently severely reduced unprovoked violence and intensified the punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1353	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was short and all right. I see it as the Council of State wanted to be strict. It's positive, so I'm partly satisfied with the answer given. But in the opinion of many people, it is perceived that the courts often provide mild penalties, especially the city courts. When violent people get a sentence of three weeks' duration after killing and embarrassing an entire family both physically and mentally, I'm in doubt that this is sufficient. Judging violent people for social service is mildly said to be a mockery of the victims of violence. Yesterday, we discussed the situation of the victims of violence regarding greater possibilities for compensation in response to the actions of the perpetrators. A unanimous bulwark agreed to strengthen the condition of the victims of violence. One of the arguments was that the victims of violence did not have the power to report the perpetrator because you feel that you are not getting along with your case. Since the Council of State is a man of action, I would like to ask: does the Council of State have anything specific in this area in terms of tightening up sanctions against violent people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1362	The representative Stang and I are actually participating with something concrete right now. We use the country's most important pulpit to mark something about the level of penalties in criminal matters. I also record that the law of law here has reacted to the reaction of the city court and found it too mild. In the cases to which I am referring, in one case the sentence was imposed to six months of unconditional imprisonment, which was four times as severe punishment as the former authorities had imposed, and twice as severe punishment as the prosecutor's claim. In the case of the second Supreme Court judgment, which concerned damage to the body in a youth environment, under the influence of alcohol, the Supreme Court chose to increase the penalty from a fine of NOK 3000 to 21 days of unconditional imprisonment. That means that the courts have taken the general signals in society to respond to raw and unprovoked violence, and I feel that, among other things. by the representative's question to me and my answer to him, we are helping to raise the level of penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1372	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘The use of weapons is increasing in Oslo. A number of drossers have taken place in recent times. As a result, taxi drivers feel a high degree of insecurity in the exercise of their profession. This is a new confirmation of the increase in the number and use of weapons as well as the specificity of Oslo in the crime scene in this area in Norway. What action will the Council of State take to put an end to this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1381	The Ministry of Justice is taking the overall problem of the search, and not least the alarming use of weapons at hand, very seriously. Overall, fortunately, the number of taxis is relatively few and stable, but not less serious for that reason. 20 ran was recorded on a country-by-country basis in 1999 compared with 16 in 1998 and 15 in 1997. The number of taxis in Oslo was eight in 1997 and 1998, while seven were registered in 1999. Preliminary figures for Oslo may indicate an increase for the first quarter of this year compared to the same period last year. It is currently too early to draw clear conclusions as a result of the figures. Combating criminality is a priority area for the police. Improving the overview and control of firearms helps the police to prevent unsuitable persons from carrying weapons. There is reason to highlight the police's new access to carry out a visit under certain conditions to investigate whether a person carries a weapon, as well as ongoing attempts at video surveillance in a public place in Oslo. As a follow-up to the position of the Swedish Arms Commission, the Ministry of Justice is also working on the planning of a national weapon name path and questions about the post-registration of hail. Further work is being done on a proposal to amend the Arms Act on the prohibition of carrying arms comparisons in public places. In 1999, the system of a contact committee for prevention of rane was also reintroduced by the Ministry of Justice. The task of the committee is to promote information development and to provide a forum for crime prevention, including the development of methods for preventing ransacks and the focus on post-criminal protection. The sample is composed of persons from different trade associations and trade unions associated with industries who are experiencedly exposed. The Norwegian Taxi Federation is represented in this Contact Committee. The drug industry has also implemented various safeguards to prevent rands and to prevent violence, for example. installation of cameras in taxis in Oslo and Bergen. Some of these measures take place in cooperation between industry, municipalities and the police. The Ministry of Justice has also granted funds for an own research project on the research department of the Police College. The aim of the work is to identify who is guilty and the extent to which these can be affected by different security measures. This is important information to enable targeted efforts to be made. The Ministry of Justice and the State Attorney have focused heavily on faster criminal proceedings. Ran is one of the crimes to be prioritised. Tempo during investigation and prosecution, followed by rapid judgment, will have good effects in relation to the perpetrator and the general public. I hope that the sum of the actions I have now mentioned will produce good results, so that we can bring the research problem to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1400	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer. But I'm only partly satisfied, for one might well say that in this case a whole left is only half the Advance Party. So the point here is that the number of rans has increased by 25.6 pst. in relation to 1998, and it is at the top of an increase of 20 pst. from 1997 to 1998. Although there has not been a dramatic increase, for the time being, by the drosser, it is only a matter of time before this will explode. What I have missed, and I hope the Minister of Justice can respond positively to, is whether he wants to increase the Oslo Police resources drastically, so that we can get more police in the streets, and whether he will help to increase the penalties and also facilitate access to search for weapons beyond what has already been done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1407	I'm not going to go into any jamming of who's tough party. I just want to note that I think I stand for measures that are effective and that cooperation with the industry – the taxi industry in this case – is absolutely crucial. The industry has done a lot. There's a reason to give them credit. I believe that the Oslo police have good resources, I believe that they give priority to the fight against rans, and I also believe that with the rules we have given for extended visits to weapons, new opportunities have been given to us in relation to what we had before. Now you're going to have to put these new possibilities into practice. And I also record how effective, for example. The dross themselves are to report by their alarm system, so that they are good examples of being witnesses in our society. To be a witness is the most important task, so the police can react quickly. That way, the taxi industry deserves praise. I hope that other citizens also act in a similar way when it comes to reporting rans and humiliating things, and asking the police to contribute. Cooperation between citizens and the police provides crime control. That's the prescription I believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1417	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: «In budget entry. S. No 12 asked the Stortinget Department to come back with arrangements for financing, among other things, Norwegian-Russian secondary school. [[1999 - 2000]] The school is a cooperation project between Norwegian and Russian authorities. The sampling period extends to the harvest and an evaluation report is available. In order to ensure the operation, it is important that the State and Akershus county council continue their work. How does the matter stand, and can we expect it to be clarified in good time before the next school year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1426	The question from the representative Rolf Rikvam is really about two different things. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for 1999-2000, reference is made to the Innst management. S. No 173 for 1996-97, where a pilot scheme with 10 schools abroad is discussed. In this pilot scheme, Norwegian students participated in secondary schools with one or two semesters of education at individual schools abroad. Skedsmo's continuing school has shared this exchange system and sent elephants to the school in Moscow. The exchange mechanism has been evaluated online and the evaluation is consistently positive. I will now consider whether to continue with the exchange mechanism and how to do so. Once this assessment has been carried out, I will present the matter to the Stortinget, as requested by the Committee. So that's the second part of the thing. The financing of the operation of the Norwegian-Russian secondary school in Moscow is a completely different matter. Since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs started the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe in 1993, Skedsmo has applied for funds for various projects, including: for the establishment of a Norwegian-Russian school according to Reform 94 pattern. The ball was started in 1995. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided support for the project for a limited period of time, under the condition that the project could be carried on without Norwegian support when the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe was completed in 1996. Skedsmo's continuing school and Akershu's county council again applied for support from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1998, and this application was rejected. The reason was that the funds from the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe cannot be used for the operation of schools. In 1999 and 2000, Akershus County has applied to the Ministry to cover most of the operating costs of the Norwegian-Russian school in Moscow on a permanent basis. This has been rejected by the Ministry. The rationale has been that the State should not assume financial responsibility for cooperation projects initiated by the county authorities themselves and entailing the ordinary operating costs of individual schools as the administrative powers of other countries own and operate. I can learn that there are also applications to create further schools both in Murmansk and Riga. The application for Murmansk had a budget of 9.4 million. kr. Probably one can wait for more applications. Of course, I will follow up the call from the Committee on Budgetary Control. S. No 12 on returning to the Storting with assessments of how exchange schemes can be financed. Since this applies to budgetary matters, the Storting will be brought back to the decision in the annual budgetary documents. I would like to make it clear that, like the Committee, I regard the cross-border exchange of elephants as right and important in our international era. But I would like to express my doubts as to whether the means of operation for schools in other countries are the best way to promote student exchanges within the priorities that must be done at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1445	I thank you for the answer, although it might not have been as positive and clear as I had hoped. I would like to stress that the evaluation report that Mr Moreforsking has produced is absolutely clear that what we have been doing has been a successful project. But what is important about this project is to ensure the further operation of this school, because it is important for the strengthening of Russian education in Norwegian high school and Norwegian education for Russian students. It is important that we have this offer, so that Norwegian students who have Russian at Norwegian secondary schools can take the last and third year in Moscow, and thus get Russian as a subject. Strengthening Russian education in Norwegian school is an important and priority area. This is clearly one of the most important ways we can do it. I have an additional question to the Council of State: Will the Council of State take the initiative towards Akershu County Municipality, which has a responsibility for this, and possibly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a view to a meeting to see if one can find out how this project can be carried out? Because it is important and crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1454	When I noticed that the representative Rikvam had his index finger up five times during the loopback to the Council of State, I realized that this was very serious, so I will of course answer the supplementary question that the representative Rikvam had. In general, I am convinced that operating aid for advanced schools outside as a general rule is not a priority. It would be wrong to initiate it from the county councils, and one should proceed from the state level. But I see a justification in the argument of the representative of Reikvam, that this school in Akershus will in a way be a kind of country line without becoming a landline, where Norwegian elephants who are interested in Russian can have an opportunity to increase their competence, and that would be with and ensure Norwegian competence in Russia. [[The President clubs.]] On that basis, I will follow the call from the representative of Rikvam and take the initiative of a meeting with the county council and with the KS to put this into context and review this particular school again. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1463	It's forgiven.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1469	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘Reference is made to Nordlyn look up on 28 February 2000, where the Fisk Export Committee stresses that language and international experience are very important for the fishing industry. Today, there is a need to strengthen this part of education so that this competence becomes available in Tromsø. What can the Council of States do about changes to meet this need?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1478	There is no doubt that more training and competence are needed to meet the requirements and challenges of the fisheries industry in the future. Nor is there any doubt that the industry needs people with knowledge in more areas than before, in order for Norway to continue to be one of the most important players in the international market. As pointed out in North Light, both international experience and knowledge of language and culture are important to know market needs and to conquer new markets. This competence must be provided by the Norwegian fishing industry in addition to the fishery and economic competence they currently possess. As I understand the question, the representative of Korsberg is busy that this competence must be available in Tromsø, i.e. at the Norwegian fishing school. Norway's fishing high school is part of the University of Tromsø, and the institution has a good supply within the language and social sciences. There is ample opportunity for them to provide studies for the fishing industry, which has a broad range of languages, culture and social sciences. Since 1 January of this year, all institutions under the auspices of the University and Højskulelova have been able to establish and lay down subjects and subjects with a scale of up to 30 weights, without seeking the ministry to do so. The University of Tromsø has made a strong profile before internationalisation and international cooperation. They also participate in several different international education programmes and exchange students with right-wing educational institutions both in Europe and in the world. Both the ‘Lisbon Convention’ and the ‘Bologna Declaration’, to which Norway joined in 1999, shall contribute to promoting cooperation on right-wing education, improving student mobility and developing procedures for the recognition of training from cooperation countries. These are systems from which fishing training can benefit in the future. It is a major challenge for Norwegian universities and universities to adapt their education provision to an environment that is changing rapidly. This challenge also applies to the training of fisheries and aquaculture, such as the failure of recruitment, despite the fact that industry is reflected in good prospects. To help with this situation, I have set up a working group, broadly composed of both industry and education, to present an action plan for recruitment to fisheries and aquaculture training now in spring. I'll give this plan a high priority and follow it up in the department. In St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99, Continuing training, I warn that it would be opened up for testing different measures to increase recruitment to the fisheries sector. The Ministry now intends to launch such experiments in cooperation with Troms and More and Romesdal counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1491	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was very positive, and especially that you want to set up a working group and focus on the problem you are facing. It is true, as the Council of State says, that it is a problem to recruit young people for the fishing industry and for training, for example, at the Fisheries College. I think a study offer that involves travel, language and close contact with the market to be served, the international market, is something the industry needs very much. Different teams have pointed to the importance that the fishing industry and the farming industry will have in the future, and it is predicted that it will represent an estimated DKK 240 billion in 2030. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What kind of long-term strategy does the Council of State have in terms of education so that a person gets professional expertise to meet the needs of the industry, and then I think a little more than Tromsø city?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1500	It is quite right that the representative, Mr Korsberg, says that this is an industry with enormous potential. Right, there are few research reports I've seen so extensively used and then taken to people's breasts like this from SINTEF about just this potential possibility. I think the possibility is there, but it takes a lot. We have just dealt with a research message where marine research is central, and how one points to this piece. In addition, I have taken on board what applies to continuing training. I think we have to get hold of people there and probably organize it so that people can go on the boat first, to be motivated, and possibly enter an education afterwards. Furthermore, I have seen down this working group that is going to go through the whole field. And it's not just for Troms, it's for the whole country, of course. This is a work that I do with the Minister of Fisheries, and what is the idea when we have been given the distribution from this group is that we both take action on further progress, that the information on further progress in general is better, and that we also get things in place before higher education when it comes to research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1512	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘A report in the School Focus on 3 March 2000 describes a situation in which several professions are ‘ Endangered’. Training provision for more traditional professions is in the process of being abandoned. This is due both to small searches among 16-19 year-olds and to the fact that older applicants are defined as out-of-date. The decision was taken in the course of the treatment of St.melding. [[1998 - 1999]] No 32 that it was to be opened for several separate runs. Will the Council of State accelerate the process so that special courses are offered for subjects with apprenticeships, but do they have enough applicants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1521	Recent headlines in the media have given the impression that the number of applicants for vocational training compared to the general public is strongly declining. The ministry's statistics does not support this impression. The number of applicants for basic national courses has been reduced by at the lower edge of 10 pst. from 1996 to 1999. The overall decline is largely a consequence of a reduction in the youth population, a reduction in the number of re-elections and a reduction in the number of applicants for further training. In 1994, it was 56.2 p.m. who applied for training courses leading to professional competence. In 1999, it was 54.2 pst. So it has been a 2 percent reduction in the number of applicants for vocational training courses. Overall, the distribution has been relatively stable since the introduction of Reform 94. The number of the ministry gives no reason to say that there is a systematic trend away from the profession at the present time. The ministry follows developments closely, with regular reports of seekers and the number of elephants and apprentices. We also know that youth education is increasing, leading to more applicants for further training, including in the field of vocational training. In addition, I would like to propose a right to further training for adults. This could also increase the number of elephants and apprentices. I am very busy keeping up the part that is looking for a professional. Recruitment of skilled workers is an obligation for Norway to maintain a competitive business even in the future. I have therefore stressed the need to strengthen the guidance and consulting service. In some countries, the search for vocational training has fallen sharply, unlike in Norway. In the United States, e.g. the reduction of about 50 pst. in the last 10 years. The main reason is likely to be that general vocational training gives higher status as a result of opening up to higher education. I think the measures we have seen in Norway to avoid such a development, so far, have worked. I am not sure what to do with it.\t\t You better opportunities for students in vocational education and training to gain greater flexibility in vocational training with access and specialisation close contact with the social partners in order to ensure learning places In St.meld. No 32 for 1998-1999 I pointed to what I believe may be a main reason why some of the further courses will not be created, i.e. narrow courses leading only to one or a few courses. With a broader course, you will have the hope of a better search for further course I and therefore also for the subject. Work on the supply structure in the future will be central to a reduction in the number of VKIs. The Ministry is now working on a plan for reviewing the structure and revision of curricula, as requested by the Stortinget in Innst. S. No 246 for 1998-1999. The plan will be submitted to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001. As part of the work on the structure, issues of specificity will also be considered. For example, students know how to do this. obtain the opportunity to search for the place of learning directly from the basic course.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1546	I thank you for your answer. It's not easy to relate to the different images being drawn. Now the Council of State drew a picture that says the situation is reasonably good. We have fairly good control of this, and the decline is not so great. But the report that I referred to, with representatives from the counties of South-Trøndelag, Nord-Trøndelag and Møre and Romsdal, paints a darker picture – also for the industries. It's not easy to relate to it. I'm choosing to think that the answer is somewhere in the middle. But that in itself is serious. So if the answer is there, the situation is fairly serious. I had probably hoped that the Council of State had come a little further into what the Stortinge decided in the treatment of the Inner East. S. No 246, where a majority said that the Stortinget asked the Government to facilitate the establishment of more special courses to take care of small subjects, subjects with recruitment problems, and youth training courses that require more than other combinations, etc. There the Storting went right into this and pointed to a solution. And I see from the last sentences in his answer, that the Council of State also pointed out that there may be differences from the basic course. But the Council of State will, in the light of the decision taken by the Stortinget in Innst. S. No 246, consider, if necessary, more carefully and possibly speed up the process against more specific situations where it is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1555	I agree with the representative of Reikvam that it is not always easy with nuances in this world. It is as it says in Scripture that in recent times there will be war and rumors of war. There is a tendency for a person to say something about it to say something so strongly that it may well be strong. But at the same time, it is alarming that today there are a lot of apprenticeships available on the subject where we know that we sorely need people. We need to work together to get a hold of parents that the best security you can have is a letter of formal notice. I think that's important. So to what I specifically want to do. Yes, I want to go in and accept more special situations and more that can go directly from the basic course. But I take it again that it is only in the trade that obvious is almost the extermination threat. We don't have to get there that we get in the same situation that we were in, with over 100 basic courses, and then we get the exact opposite. One must stick to the main structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1567	This question, from the representative of Ottar Kaldhol to the Minister for Transport, is raised by the representative of Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1570	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «With a deficit of 28 million. kroner for ferry services from 1 May 2000 we are facing a crash of the ferry service in Møre and Romesdal. The reason for this crisis is the record high fuel prices and the specific base charge on mineral oil of 19 ounces. A reduction in ferries has serious consequences for users, commuters, businesses and outlying municipalities. How will the Council of State help to compensate national road ferries for their operating expenses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1579	The state road authority is currently conducting negotiations on route provision in the ferry sector. The negotiations have only been concluded in two smaller ferries. The state road authorities state that the negotiations are difficult, and there is a high distance between the shipping companies and the individual road managers. The State Road Administration has addressed to the Ministry the budgetary situation of the ferry operation. High oil prices have incurred higher fuel costs than foreseen in the budget. In addition, the introduction of a mineral oil tax of 19 øre per. liters. In addition, VAT is added. These relationships include, inter alia: led to adverse cost developments in the ferry sector. The budgetary situation is very tight. I am also aware through the media that from many of the major coastal ferry companies, some major changes in the route offer are being considered, as it has not been possible to reach agreement in the negotiations between road offices and shipping companies on the continuation of the 1999 offer within the budgetary framework available. The Ministry has an assessment of the input from the State Road Administration. I also see that we have a short time to assess the current situation, as it would be natural to introduce any changes to the route in connection with the introduction of a new timetable. New timetable is introduced on 1 May for most shipping companies. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Transport in the budget for the year 2000 proposed that the holiday offer in 1999 should be continued mainly in the year 2000. However, the budget specifies that the offer will depend on the Vegvesen negotiations with the ferry companies. I am determined that what was the objective of the 2000 budget proposal on the ferry offer should be maintained. I can therefore not today say in detail the scope and form in which compensation should be given for the increased costs mentioned above. But I will shortly present to the Government a solution to the questions asked by the representative of Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1592	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I thought the answer might have been a little more specific, because this is an urgent matter. Passengers, industry and tourism depend on the fact that holiday departures are good and that prices are not too high. It was a political agreement in the Ministry of Transport that the route offer for ferry operations should be made at the 1999 level and continued in 2000, which the Minister of Transport is also now confirming. Today, there are no distribution layers up to 200 million missing. kr to keep the operation unchanged for this year. People in the districts are used to paying a lot to take a ferry and a toll, but there's a limit. In the Sunnmørs-post on 4 March, Minister of Finance Restad says that he wants to present his own emergency package to the Stortinget within one month to prevent route cuts on the ferry operations. This hastens things too. I have two questions for the Minister of Transport. Question 1: Will the Minister for Transport, in cooperation with the Minister for Finance, be involved in compensating for the expenses of the states affected by high operating costs? Question 2: Should ferry operations be seen better in the state budget than is the case today, so that national road ferries do not become losers in the fight for small means in relation to operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1599	If I had been more specific in my first answer, the answer would have been negative. The reason is that we have a recently adopted budget to deal with, both in terms of framework, fees and priorities. I'd say that the answer I gave is more positive than it's common for a government council to give so early in a new year. That being said, I'm referring to the numbers I have on the table, the appropriations I have, and working to solve it the way I sketched out in my first answer. Then I also read newspapers, but can't say that there comes any special package, as I know, from the Ministry of Finance in this matter. If it comes, it will be welcome, but as this concerns the transport sector, it would be natural for any such package to be promoted by us jointly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1609	This question, from Vidar Bjørnstad to the Minister for Transport, is raised by Eirin Fallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1612	‘For a time, the World Times wrote back on a major control of heavy traffic through the valley of Rome by the State Road Administration. According to the article, every third foreign semi-trailer was banned from driving after driving on summer tyres on soapy winter driving. This was described as ‘life-threatening traffic’ by an inspector at the road transport station of the State. [[e]] A fee of 500 kroner was charged for the most serious infringements. Does the Council of State consider a fee of 500 kroner to be the correct response in the case to which it refers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1619	In the last two winters, the Ministry has paid special attention to the use of foreign vehicle combinations in this country. The State Road Service has tightened up control of the tyre and chain equipment on both Norwegian and non-resident wagon trains. Depending on the expected driving conditions on the journey route, chains carried may now be required even if the control point is not slippery. This can be done after verification of cargo papers, etc. which can determine the destination of vehicle combinations. The Road Service can then determine which tyre and chain equipment is necessary for the journey. The forms of reaction that may be used in the event of infringements are either fee, driving ban and/or notification. One is also required to get chains before one is allowed to continue driving. The amount of the fee to which reference is made in the question from the representative Fallet is a general form of reaction in the case of unauthorised driving with tipping tyres or chains. When driving with tyres that do not keep the minimum design depth, the fee is 750 kroner per. tyres. A fee shall be paid for each tyre having an illegal pattern depth. However, driving with summer tyres on slippery winter roads is to be regarded as such serious and dangerous as to normally be followed by driving bans and criminal proceedings. This generally means that the police impose fines. Fees shall not be imposed in such cases. The Ministry will ensure that it is properly reacted when checking such combinations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1628	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that he promises to follow this up, but will add: I agree with the heart that driving with summer tyres on smooth winter roads is fatal. It is absolutely necessary that this be followed by strict fines, and that should therefore be the responsibility of the police. It'll be a too mild reaction to issue a fee in this context. Many people in the transport industry are very concerned about this issue, because Norwegian carriers believe that many non-resident carriers, with whom Norwegian trailer drivers compete on unfortunately different conditions, wonder that they will receive a mild penalty in the form of a small fee. When we know how dangerous it is to drive with bad tyres in wintertime, the State Road Service should report the trailer drivers for life-threatening driving behaviour. They would then be fined or imposed, which would cost a lot more money. I am asked by the State Council to instruct the State Road Administration to report to foreign trailer drivers who are driving with road-hazardous equipment, so that the penalty(s) are consistent with the danger to which the trailer drivers are exposed and other road users, not least the last. Otherwise, the example could well have been from Hedmark. We have the same problem there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1637	I expect that the problem can be repeated in several states, at different times of the year, and to different degrees maybe as well. Some places in the country it's spring when it's winter, so here you can probably get fines and fees at different times of the year. But what I'm concerned about is following up on what the questioner has very much affected, namely that it is being reacted correctly when checking for such a train in the future. Which way this follow-up is going to happen, I'd like to get back to concrete. I am concerned that the handling of Norwegian and non-resident carriers does not take place under different conditions. I am concerned that there is no distortion of competition, and at least the level of the fine should not be what tempts anyone to play on such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1647	«In letter of 17 December 1999 to the Oslofjord Tunnel AS, the Directorate of Road Transport refused to install TV surveillance. The bomber is made aware that the company cannot use toll revenue for the purpose. Will the Council of State take a closer look at the requirement of increased safety and, where appropriate, assess the right of road users to finance themselves a higher level of safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1654	The Oslo soil tunnel is designed and equipped according to current road standards. In the case of safety equipment, the extent is even higher than normal requirements. The equipment does not include TV surveillance because this is primarily a means of monitoring and managing traffic resolution in tunnels with much higher traffic than expected in the Oslofjord tunnel. TV surveillance is not considered particularly suitable for providing detailed information on incidents in the event of a fire, as the TV picture falls away quickly due to a smoke-filled tunnel. This perception is supported by reports from serious tunnel fires abroad. I also asked about the safety that would be achieved by a person being responsible for the control of the TV image. The safety measures in the Oslofjord tunnel can be described as the best in some undersea road tunnels in Norway. However, as a result of initiatives by the fire services in particular, these will be complemented by measures that will further improve safety. I am aware that there is a positive dialogue with the fire service in the relevant municipalities about additional installations that will provide information in a simple way about which vehicles are inside the tunnel and whether these transport dangerous goods. This equipment will also determine the air speed and direction of draught, and thus the spread rate of the smoke. Subject to the intended functioning of the system, the fire service has notified back that it considers the solution to be a satisfactory alternative to television surveillance. As regards the question of whether the toll company can be given the opportunity to finance equipment in addition to what is standard in national road installations, it has been mentioned in the questionnaire earlier, and then I refer to question 20, which was answered on 3 February 1999. Such funding requires local support and must be approved by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1667	I thank you for the answer, which is exactly the same as the letter I referred to. The fact that this tunnel is equipped in accordance with the regulations of the Directorate of Roads has not been suitable to convince those who have been involved in this from the rescue side, nor have I. Because this tunnel, which is one of the longest in the world, has a slope of 7 pst. And it only has two runs. I'm not so much concerned about knowing how many cars of different kinds are in there, but the simple fact that when people run down into such a tunnel and get engine stop, it could cause panic and unpredictable situations by getting up there down there, 250 meters below the surface of the sea and the Oslo Earth – not to say at the bottom of the Oslo Earth. This is what the rescue teams want to have a different solution, and I can't understand why we can't use tolls to pay the 12.5 million.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1672	I agree that tolls need to be re-examined in relation to the previous legislation, and it was tried in Sørfold when it came to tunnel equipment and tunnel equipment last year. It did not work, because you did not give your consent locally, in the individual municipalities, and that process was therefore rejected. Let me just say that I'm very concerned with high traffic safety also in the tunnels. But the question is, how do we find the best solution? And so you have come to the situation that you have said that the TV solution is isolated is not a good enough solution, you have to find other ways to do it. There are not the number of accidents in the tunnels themselves which are the largest in number in Norway, but accidents outside the tunnels and also on other sections. It does not help those who are affected and feel insecure. But let me briefly say what measures have been taken in this particular tunnel: a combination of traffic counting equipment, infrared cameras for digital still images of all vehicles, and air speed and traction measuring equipment, as it is called. [[The President clubs.]] Yes, then we will take the rest of the information in a later matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1685	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘When the Stortinget dealt with the action plan for the care of the elderly [[1996-97]] Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to build such dwellings in the South as part of the action plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1694	The representative, Mr Gaundal, pointed out that foreign supply was not discussed in the context of the old age message. Only in recent times have some municipalities started planning such projects. On request, the House Bank has stated about a year ago that investment grants can be paid to the project abroad if the usual conditions are met. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, in consultation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on 17 November 1999, sent a letter to the House Bank clarifying some of the conditions. Since Norwegian health and social legislation is not applicable in the rest of the world, the municipality in question must operate in order to ensure that the persons in question are provided with the necessary services and justice by agreement. The same applies to the establishment of professional supervision. From this point of view, there is little time for caregivers to have a sustainable supply abroad. The establishment of measures outside Norway raises several legal issues that are currently not well enough resolved. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has drawn up a written report with the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department on some of the questions that need to be clarified. The fact that investment grants are already open to this effect means that it may be relevant for a municipality to establish a foreign supply as part of the old-age plan. In order for it to be defenceable, the municipality must document on a case-by-case basis the need for establishment and must also be able to defend the priority in relation to the municipality's overall planning. There is a great difference here between cases involving people who are highly nurturing and who have less need for help and are therefore more able to choose an alternative offer abroad. The municipality has a special responsibility to evaluate such consideration. The county council has the same county council as the county board that will normally advise the House Bank on applications for membership. The action plan was adopted to ensure a better supply for the oldest and most nurturing. I am positive that we can provide flexible solutions that can provide time-limits for provision of care in countries with climate and other conditions that can provide health and well-being. At the same time, I am very busy that any project needs to be carefully planned, and that the legislation and agreements that affect the people involved are clarified. The government will provide a big deal in May with a review of the first two years of the old plan. There, this issue will be discussed in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1714	I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I am so pleased with, and underline what the Council of State also says, namely that the action plan was adopted to ensure a better offer for the oldest and most nurturing. I guess it's my feeling in that context that maybe it's not the oldest elderly people who are planning offers abroad, but that it's well functionally healthy, who sees a healthy old age with the opportunity to travel to the South. The Elder bet would make it easier to get a good offer regardless of which municipality you live in. It was to benefit the elderly in a concrete way. My supplementary question is: can we risk some municipalities having exclusive offers to their older people, while in other municipalities it becomes difficult to enter the hospital even if you are very nurturing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1721	The starting point for the ageing plan was to ensure more equivalent care for older people across the country. It's my definite impression that that's also the experience of the first two years. So I'm going to send my own big message during the spring to highlight the other part. At the same time, the priorities of each municipality will be different. This may mean that there may still be local variations, but in relation to the old age plan and the resources provided by the municipalities, there are certain criteria to ensure that the elderly and the most nurturing are the ones who will get a better offer here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1736	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1742	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size of the population in 1997 considered that research into typical female diseases is not a sufficient priority in the health system. Lack of knowledge about the differences between women and men’s physiology and the testing of treatment methods primarily for men may lead to mistreatment of women. The majority considered it important to increase research on female diseases, and asked the Ministry to propose the establishment of a research centre for women’s diseases. Instead, there was an investigation. How much longer should we wait before something happens?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1751	The size has raised on several occasions the need to strengthen efforts in relation to women’s health and asked the Government to take action. In order to obtain a better basis for shaping an overall effort, the government appointed Jagland in the autumn of 1997 a sample to assess the health of women in Norway. I was handed over to NOU 1999:13, Women's health in Norway, in January last year. The study notes that in Norway, women’s health is primarily a positive sign, and many women have good conditions for good health. Norway offers well-developed health services, quite good birth support and child care conditions. However, there is a lack of knowledge about both specific female diseases and the links between health and living conditions. At the same time, there is a lot of important knowledge that is not used or that is not influenced by health policy decisions and practices in healthcare and social security. Health and welfare systems have widespread notions that women and men are treated equally, and that this should be the case. However, there are several examples that equal treatment leads to adverse consequences for women; among other things, it has been demonstrated that they have been plagued more and more than by men after surgery, which could have been avoided if the operating technique had been better adapted to the anatomy of women. The study on women’s health in Norway proposes more than 50 different measures of different nature and content. The Committee on Women’s Health has paid particular attention to action proposals that can create structures and procedures to ensure gender mainstreaming in knowledge development, decision-making and practical work. The idea is that such strategies and measures will in the long term contribute to improving the provision of health and well-being to women, but also to men. The investigation has now been widely consulted. On an ongoing basis, the Hearing Officers are very supportive of the evaluations and generally support the sample approach, the problem description and the proposed actions. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is now preparing a strategy plan for the follow-up to the women’s health inquiry. It will, as proposed by the sample, have four main fields of action to ensure the respect of women and gender: in ongoing actions and processes in decision-making systems in knowledge production – research and teaching through quality development and supervision In the field of research, we will propose on our own initiative that a clause be introduced that both sexes must be included in the research protocol, if there is no convincing reason to omit gender, if clinical and basal medical projects are to receive public support. The Strategy Plan will also include a separate initiative to ensure quality of treatment from a gender perspective. There are currently several research environments in different disciplines that have competence in women’s diseases and the gender dimension of health care. Both the Ministry’s research among researchers and practitioners in this field in 1997, the women’s health investigation and the consultation round, ensure that, instead of setting up a new centre, efforts should be made to strengthen the already existing areas of competence and coordinate their efforts better. This will be taken into account in the Strategy Plan. The Ministry will return to the strategy plan for the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1785	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to see that something has happened. But five years have passed since the Stortinget decided that the Ministry should propose the establishment of a research centre for women's diseases. It was to be presented in the context of the revised national budget in 1997. The Christian People's Party was part of this majority. I notice that the Minister of Health, as well as part of the research community, believes that this research should be spread across different environments. But then we don't get to get the whole -- to see the female diseases in a whole. It is divided into several different areas. My question is: will the Minister of Health not follow up on what was the Stortinge decision of 1996?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1792	I believe that what I am notifying today, a separate strategy plan for this field, is precisely to ensure such a whole as the representative is looking for. At the same time, as Minister of Health, who took over the autumn of 1997 when this sample had just been reduced, I had to deal with the political reality created by the fact that the government of Jagland actually chose to go that way in the follow-up to the Storting decision. Now that's what must be the basis for my feedback to Stortinget. In this context, the size will be able to assess the various proposals that have emerged throughout this process. Finally, let me remind you that it's not like that while you've been investigating, you haven't done anything. We have launched a research strategy on osteoarthritis, which is a major female disease, and we have launched a series of action plans with a gender perspective, including gender equality. the psychiatry plan and cancer plan, and we have also established a separate specialist board from the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1804	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The number of accidents reported in the use of medical-technical equipment in hospitals has doubled from 1998 to 1999 and there is a significant under-reporting of such accidents. The medical-technical equipment is preferably used by doctors and nurses. Does the Council of State consider that this category of staff has sufficient technical competence to operate the increasingly complex medical-technical equipment acquired in our hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1813	The increase in the number of reported accidents or near-incidents presented in the Annual Report of the Product and Electricity Authority in 1999 is due, inter alia, to: events related to testing or using complex anaesthetic devices in three Norwegian hospitals. This occurred despite the fact that one of the cases had a well-organised training programme with ‘superuser’ as resource persons in relation to just using this equipment. In these cases, the accidents or near-incidents were related both to user errors and to technical failures of the device. Comparable hospital reports refer to some large variations. It is not without saying that hospitals with many sent messages have a very large number of accidents or almost accidental accidents. These hospitals may be better able to report and take the problems more seriously. Many suggest that there is a relatively large under-reporting, even in relation to incidents involving medical-technical devices. Accidents or near-accidents related to the use of medical-technical equipment are due to defects/deficiencies of the device itself and/or user faults. The representative Alvheim raises questions about the latter reason. The hospital owner shall be responsible for making available the necessary funds for the proper operation of hospitals. Hospital management is responsible for the proper use of complex medical-technical equipment. It implies that decisions on the purchase of advanced medical-technical equipment must take into account the training and competence of the health-care professional to use the equipment. The increasing number of messages related to the use of medical-technical equipment gives rise to increased attention to this. When the reason for failure to use such equipment is due to user faults, this may be evidence of lack of competence or training. A five-year plan has been adopted to improve the device situation in Norwegian hospitals, pointing out that expensive equipment and major investments directly related to patient treatment should be given priority. The plan was followed up in the annual budgets. In order to enable health professionals to operate the complex medical-technical equipment put into service, hospitals must organise continuous training in the use of the device. It is necessary to assess the need for improved access to technological competences. This will help to ensure the proper use of the most complex equipment acquired. National health surveillance is responsible for the implementation of the National Strategy on Quality of Health. The quality selection of hospitals has been established in line with this plan. In 2000 the Health Authority shall supervise the quality committees of hospitals responsible for notifying incidents to the Health Authority. I believe that this gives the supervisory authority an opportunity to follow up the question raised by the representative Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1830	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I believe that there are at least two aspects that may be the reason why we have an increasing number of accidents with medical-technical equipment. Firstly, the training of those required to use the equipment is too poor. Secondly, many hospitals today have a medical-technical device that is both 20 and 30 years old and should have been renovated for the longest time. Is the escalation plan and the grant scheme now in place for the acquisition of medical-technical equipment in Norwegian hospitals sufficient to renovate the old equipment within a reasonable time frame?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1839	At the time of the design of the device plan, a broad review of the need for the renewal of old medical-technical equipment was carried out at the country’s hospital and at the hospital owners’ premises. The need assessment and the funding plans that were then available were used to base the equipment plan and, in the context of these funding plans, an additional State grant equivalent to that needed to meet the need within five years was provided. The size gave its unanimous support to the equipment plan, and it is now implemented annually in line with the Storting decision. The information I have is that the implementation of the plan follows the recipe that was intended, and I have no indication that there is reason to change the scheme that the Storting has adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1847	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Through the media, it has been known that the Centres for Child and Youth Psychiatry are cutting their offer to children and young people with severe eating disorders and that in-patients with an imperative need for treatment are to be coerced. This treatment offer applies to patients with the most severe symptoms. What is the reason for the closure of this treatment facility, and what can the Council of State do to maintain a completely necessary offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1856	Monday February 28th d.o.b. decided to make a temporary closure and ingestion stop at a daily break-up at the Children’s and Youth Psychiatry Centre in the Municipality of Oslo. As soon as I got acquainted with the decision, I asked the County Medical Officer in Oslo to investigate whether the excribed patients are being properly followed up and treated. The Ministry also contacted the Municipality of Oslo and the State Health Authority for information on the situation at the Centre for the Psychiatry of Children and Youth. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been informed by the Municipality of Oslo that the temporary closure of a department at SBU is due to a difficult personnel situation in relation to the treatment of a particularly demanding patient. Several medical messages were added to some previously unoccupied jobs, so that it was not found proper to maintain the daily places. According to the State Health Authority, the situation at the department was very special when it was temporarily closed. There are no plans to shut down the department or the provision of treatment to young people with eating disorders. According to information obtained by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at the State Health Authority, the department will be reopened in a few weeks or as soon as it is practicable to meet the daily staffing needs of the department. The closure of the department is not favourable for patients, but the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has been confirmed by the County Medical Board of Oslo and the State Health Authority that all patients admitted to the department receive proper treatment elsewhere. Finally, let me briefly mention that the Government has recently adopted a strategy and action plan to prevent eating problems and improve the supply of people with eating disorders. This plan emphasises, inter alia: the importance of strengthening the supply of people with eating disorders in the context of the regular provision of health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1871	We know that for patients with long-term eating disorders, it's hard to get out of that situation. It's hard for the circle of friends and maybe for the family circle to do something. When I ask this question, it's because I have a nagging feeling that the health care system doesn't always take these questions seriously. I also refer to similar planned reductions elsewhere in the country. Now the Health Minister mentioned the supervision systems, and I was going to ask the Minister a little more about that. Is there a systematic follow-up by the Health and County Doctors in this area? It's very easy to focus on other, more physically accentuated forms of suffering. What is the Minister's impression of the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1878	In relation to the purely supervisory task, I assume that the Health Authority here, as in other areas, is complying with the requirements for the soundness of the treatment offer. In the field of mental health, and in the field of the focus on eating disorders and the provision of services to people with eating disorders, we have established our own positions in all county doctors, who must follow the plans both for municipalities and county municipalities and implement the plans with the earmarked funds that the mental health escalation plan provides. I believe that the central authorities at this point have actually given the county doctors very special resources to follow up on the fact that we are now getting the escalation that we should have had many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1888	‘During the budgetary procedure, the Stortinget adopted the following proposal from the Social Committee: ‘Until the urgent notification has been considered, the Government asks the Government to contribute to the maintenance of the operation of hospital emergency services.’ How has the Government followed up this decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1895	Hospitals fall within the responsibility of counties and are defined in the hospital law as: «medical institution which allows patients to stay to examine whether hospitalisation should take place or for simpler treatment which cannot be carried out appropriately in the home of the patient but which does not require hospitalisation». The hospital function lies in the grey zone between the administrative levels of the county and the municipality, because they perform functions that are part of the specialist health service and part of the primary health service. This functional breakdown raises questions of responsibilities and funding, and is one of the main causes of the drastic reduction in the number of hospital beds in recent years. Another reason for this is to be found in the 1988 health home reform, when the responsibility for somatic health homes was transferred to the municipalities. This led to that the county councils did not see the need for the operation of hospitals in the municipalities. Instead, the hospital beds were redefined as a nursing home and integrated into the regular municipal hospital care system. However, in some municipalities, and especially in Finnmark, there was a desire to maintain hospitals. In my opinion, increased use of hospitals could relieve hospitals of functions that can be provided more reasonably and in a more appropriate way. It is not desirable for patients who are able to receive a healthy offer that is at the same time socially viable to receive a lower offer due to the funding arrangements. Hospitals are diverse both in terms of organisation and in terms of the patients being treated. Some are operated by primary health services, while others carry out clear hospital duties. An example of this is Hallingdal Sukestugu, which operates as a department in Ringerijk Hospital. The latter has been approved for 1999 by the ISF against similar features in the county framework. The Ministry is examining the possibility of including hospitals providing specialist health services and is part of the County Health Plans of the ISF scheme. I will come back to this in connection with next year's budget. The government reduced a sample last week under the direction of County Councillor Tor Berge, who is to provide a more flexible and user-friendly specialist health service. The background of this selection is, among other things. the grey zones resulting from financial instruments when the specialist health service is moved out of hospitals and into the primary health service. The mandate includes analysing the impact of different financial instruments and making new proposals for solutions. This will also include future financing of hospital facilities. I am aware that the Finnish State Municipality has decided to maintain the operation of hospitals in 2000 at the same level as in 1999. There have also been no changes in the operation of hospitals elsewhere in the country. On this basis, I have not seen the need to intervene in hospital operations so far. On the other hand, I would like to invite the Stortinget to discuss different funding models in the emergency message that Stortinget receives for our treatment. Furthermore, the financing of the small hospitals that are highly integrated into hospitals will have to be seen in the context of future financing of these. The report on health care funding is now being consulted and will be presented to the Stortinget later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1919	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Several studies have shown that a good part of the treatment now available in hospitals is made up of patients who could otherwise have been treated in the municipality of origin if they had only had some treatment there as a substitute for hospitals. This is where hospitals come in as an alternative. At the same time, it can be seen that in the county municipalities, with the narrow economy they have, hospitals generally become balancing posts. It would be thought that, from a socio-economic perspective, it was entirely appropriate to encourage not only the maintenance of the hospitals you have, but, provided that they are properly used, to further develop that kind of model thinking. Does the Minister for Health consider possible future financial instruments to break the current dilemma, namely that the county councils do not see any further development in hospitals, which thus becomes a balancing item in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1930	It is in the answer I have already given that the question of the financial instruments for this type – we shall call it – half-way service is most on the agenda. The size will be given the opportunity to discuss it first in the context of the emergency message. It's also in the initiative I've taken to set up the sample that I mentioned, that I'm very concerned that we have systems that are suitable to capture the decentralizing trends in medicine, which means that treatment can take place at a lower level than you might have traditionally foreseen. Today, we have systems that are largely shut down for that type of dynamics, and those bars I am concerned with identifying through this sample work. In the case of concrete financing models, I will get back to it in the notified notice, but I can mention that it will shortly be a meeting with representatives of the municipality of Alta and the municipality of Finnmark about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1942	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In the course of the 2000 budgetary procedure, the Stortinget decided to increase the appropriations allocated to the training institutions by 20 million. kroner in addition to what was proposed by the Government. This was done to increase the curfew rate, avoiding increases in excess. According to the information I have received, new curfew rates have not yet been introduced. What is the reason why Storting’s decision has not been implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1951	As you can see from the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 1999-2000, the majority of the Committee proposed that the contribution rate for training institutions Group 1 be SEK 631 and for Group 2 SEK 2 496. I guess the training institutions are familiar with this. The Ministry has notified the Government of Stortingen’s decision to follow up. As I know, the message to the social security offices is now on the air. The rate of the refund shall apply from 1 January 2000. Although it may take some time from Stortinget’s decision to notify the social security offices of changes in contributions rates, the rates will apply from the time the Stortinget decided. Settlement agencies will ensure that the correct contribution rate for 2000 is paid. The training institutions are known mainly as private institutions and the ministry does not approve the budgets for them. As a result, the Ministry does not have an overview of the separate components of each institution at all times. However, I assume, as the Storting did, that this increase contributes to the non-increase in excess of the excess.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1962	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I'm glad to hear that this is now going on, because the training institutions are struggling to get the ends to meet. That's something you're familiar with. A part of this addition was financed by increasing the proportions of orthopaedic patients from NOK 100 to NOK 125 per year. 24 hours. I have noticed that this increase is for the longest time undertaken by the Ministry, while that part of the decision that limits the highest proportions is still not implemented. I am therefore happy to hear what the Council of State says, but I also want to ask: What is the reason why collection and payment cannot happen more parallel to what is now the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1969	The central point is that the rates must be implemented from the date on which the Grand Duchy has decided, and this will be done. The Ministry of Social Security posted this in a letter dated 27 January of this year. There is then a technical process of disseminating this information to the social security offices of the country. But the fact that it takes some time doesn't affect the settlement the training institutions get. As from 1 January 2000, they will receive it, as decided by the Stortinget, and should be satisfied with it by all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1979	I will ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The Bergen Clinic is working with Latvia to address the major alcohol problems among young people. They are supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this work. Statoil legally sells alcohol from its gas stations. If Statoil stops selling alcohol, access to alcohol will be reduced. Will the Council of State take the initiative of Statoil to put an end to the alcohol market?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1988	Statoil operates gas stations with a wide range of products in many countries. The variety of goods depends on a commercial assessment and on the laws and regulations underpinning the activities of the countries of Statoil. Among other things, at the gas stations in Latvia, Statoil sells alcoholic goods. Due to high attention, the Ministry has asked Statoil to provide details on the sale of alcohol from its refuelling stations in Latvia. Statoil writes in its statement that there is no state monopoly on the placing on the market of alcohol in Latvia, which means that alcohol is traded through a variety of channels. Among other things, alcohol is traded in grocery stores and also in petrol stations. Statoil is of the opinion that the company's sales represent some of the more controlled in this area. The price level is relatively high compared to other sales of alcohol. As the Council of State, I assume that it is Statoil's board of directors and administration that is responsible for setting up the company's business activities in accordance with Statoil's ethical guidelines. The government must deal with Statoil’s international activities in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in the individual countries in which the company is established. Therefore, Jet does not find any basis for taking any further initiative towards Statoil in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e1997	First I want to say that I think it's sad that Statoil can't be a little more active in relation to the big problems that are in Latvia when it comes to youth and drug abuse. I understand, of course, very well that the Council of State cannot instruct Statoil, because Statoil must do what they think is right. But I'm going to challenge the Council of State once again to contact the Board of Statoil, because, as the Council of State says, it's the board that has to deal with all questions also in relation to what's ethically defensive – I shouldn't say morally defensive, but at least they have a responsibility, I feel, to do that. I want to ask the Council of State if it wants to contact the Statoil board when this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2006	As I said, I have asked for a statement from Statoil on this issue. In my opinion, it is Statoil's own responsibility to assess its activities in accordance with the ethical guidelines of the company. Let me mention that, not only in Latvia, but also in Denmark, Russia, Poland and Estonia, there are national laws that give rise to the sale of alcohol from gas stations. I do not find that the owner can go into this problem. There must be a proper relationship between the owner and the company in this case. I have read in Bergensavisen that Ranveig Frøiland believes that the council should press the company. That sounds strange to me. I wonder whether the Workers' Party as a party really stands behind a position in which one who owns should say to Statoil that this must end. In this case, there is a whole new course from the Workers' Party that it would be interesting to see the broader effects of, and that I am supposed to remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2015	Questions 33 and 34 have been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2021	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for the Environment: ‘In some municipalities, residents now feel along villa roads that the municipality transfers responsibility for the road from the municipality to the residents. This means that it is the inhabitants who have to take the costs of maintenance and not the municipality, as it has been in the past. This may indicate that municipalities use their re-regulatory powers to avoid burdensome expenditure. In many residential areas, this also creates conflict situations between neighbours. Does the Council agree that this is an unfortunate development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2030	The question of who is responsible for the operation and maintenance of a road arises from the provisions of the Road Code. For municipal roads, this is the responsibility of the municipality. The municipality may decide that a road should be closed as a municipal road. Such decisions are generally taken in the preparation of plans under the Planning and Building Act because it appears that the road will no longer have a public road function. Example of this is that it should serve as access for a limited number of properties. It would then also be appropriate to transfer the maintenance responsibility to the properties that are users of the road. It is within the tasks of the municipality according to road law, planning and building law to continuously assess which roads have such a function that they should be included in the municipal road network. If the municipality regulates a road with clear public functions of access for several properties or private roads, the regulatory decision could be reviewed by the county council. The Ministry is not familiar with issues where the regulatory plan has been abused in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2039	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but she did not answer the question. I asked if the Council of State agrees that this is an unfortunate development. As the answer was, I have to interpret it so that she doesn't think this is an unfortunate development. One thing to be aware of is that, in most cases, the inhabitants have paid the municipality a refund for technical installations, and they pay annual road, water and sewerage charges. This is also public housing, which can often, at least in rural areas, be seen as social housing, where people cannot afford to enter a private building site in this way. That there have not been so many complaints, I believe it is related to the fact that many people know a form of rejection. There's a lot of examples, there's even an example that there's a distinction within one and the same housing area, and then there's not going to be a deal between the neighbours. But I'm interpreting it so that the Council of State didn't think this was an unfortunate development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2046	If the municipality transfers roads that also have a public function, I believe that this is an unfortunate development. As I said in my first answer, you have the opportunity to complain about that kind of decision for the county council. Otherwise, I believe that it should be an important principle that questions should be settled as closely as possible to those to which they relate, and in most cases it would make sense that these are decisions taken at municipal level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2056	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The County of Eastfold will travel 430 kilometres with power fences to 10 million. crowns to keep the wolves away from Eastfold farms with buff. What does the Council of State think of such a great and serious natural intervention, where there are miles of barriers with electricity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2065	The County of Eastfold has assessed different measures to prevent the damage of large predators to domestic animals. In a letter to the Directorate of Nature Management, the county has been based on fences with non-recovery fences. The county has explained the fence needs of a wolfevir west of Glomma, and a cost estimate has been made. In describing the need for fences, the county distinguishes between basic fences related to ordinary grazing, additional fences to prevent predators where there is no other need for fences and to secure existing fences against predators. Eastfold is a country with large cultural landscape areas, and the livestock population in the county is essentially already fenced. The material from the county shows that in the area concerned there is a need for 70 km of additional fences against predators where there is no other need for fences – this in order to create obstacles where a former one is based on natural fences. The areas for which it may be appropriate to protect against large predators will be essentially land. Inland is not open to open-air and general activity during the summer months. I believe it is important to facilitate preventive measures in the management of wild game, and I have noticed the county's proposal for a safe fence. The proposal is now under consideration in the Directorate for Nature Management. As regards any negative effects in the form of natural interventions, I emphasise that funds are mainly sought for the readjustment of existing fences on inland or already fenced plots. I also emphasise that in such cases the use of fences should address different needs, such as keeping bofes inside and predators out – and to minimise obstacles to other activities. These are also aspects of this matter which the Directorate will consider when examining the application.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2081	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Making predators out there, in my opinion, is not feasible in practice. This scepticism also shares the forest manager in Rakkestad municipality, hunters' and fishermen's association and wildlife. The project will most likely lead to a number of tragedies for other game, namely deer and elk, which depend on their fixed routes. If the anti-suspective action is successful and a conflict between sheep and wolf is avoided, the wolf is likely to be involved in other areas with more food, i.e. more sheep. Will the State Council then continue its policy of restraint in other areas of Norwegian unspoiled nature?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2092	The representative claimed that it is not possible to fence predators out. To that it is to say that there are different experiences and that it is important to draw on the experience we have so far where this has proved to be successful. It is absolutely right that there could always be a potential conflict between predatory game and sheep on pasture. There is a conflict that the report also addresses, and where the Storting has concluded that it should not lead to the destruction of the four large predators. As I already said in my first answer, we are not talking here in the first row about fences in pristine nature, but primarily about upgrading already existing fences around inland. In further efforts to mitigate the conflicts between sheepfarming and predatory game, it is important to have a variety of measures, and fences, guessing and overhauling will be some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2106	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Askoy Municipality has ordered the NRK to tear down the rusted l50 meter high radio towers on Erdal’s rapidest. Neighbors living in the residential area fear that rusty structures can fall down and lead to great damage to people and homes. The NRK would like to tear down the masts, but has received a refusal from the Riksantikvaren. What can the Council of State do to ensure that the Ascovy demolition decision can be implemented before an accident occurs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2115	The Riksantikvaren has produced a proposal for the conservation of the Bergen broadcaster at the municipality of Erdal in Askøy. The rescue proposal has been out for public inspection and has recently been sent to the municipality of Askøy for treatment. This consultation round is part of the peace process under the Culture Memory Act and aims at precisely identifying and ensuring a sound assessment of the type of conflicting considerations raised in the question by the representative Ranveig Frøiland. As a result of the fact that the rescue matter can come to the Ministry of the Environment for final clarification, I do not find it natural to address these issues in more detail now. However, without prejudging the outcome of the rescue matter itself, I find reason to note the following: The state assessment prepared for the NRK shows that the masts should be taken down for rehabilitation. The main wish of the Riksantik product is that the masts remain standing while maintenance is being carried out. Therefore, the Riksantikvart considers that material-technical analyses should be carried out in order to assess the safety aspects. This means that the Riksantikvar does not consider the dismantling of the masts to be incompatible with the protection interests, if this proves necessary to carry out the maintenance. The NRK has contacted the Ministry of the Environment in connection with the decision of the municipality of Askøy that the masts have to be removed. I would therefore like to ensure that the Riksantikvaren will contact the NRK as soon as possible to clarify how the matter can be followed up, both in terms of the safety aspects and the antiquarian aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2124	For me, it's the security that matters to people who live there, that they shouldn't feel that they live as unsafe as they have now because these 150-metre-old masts rust. There's a bit of a situation that might happen if they fell down. Of course, I fully understand that the Council of State cannot intervene in a process of peace. But what the council says she will do, I would ask her to do as soon as possible, and that she then contact the Riksantikvarn so that one can put these things in place and not sit and wait for each other, for the claim here is that the Riksantikvarn has been with and trained the matter for many years and has not got her forward. We don't have to sit and watch that happen. But when you're going to make peace like that – I'm not going to decide on the question of peace – is there no realism in the assessments of what should be peace? Here, there's a cost of $30 million. kr that is going to satisfy these masts. Shouldn't a begin to evaluate what is important to peace, before one stands bombastic on the fact that here it is to be peaced and not taken into consideration what the situation is both for people and for the NRK?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2131	Let me do the last one first. Of course, assessment of what should be peace should already have been carried out by the cultural memory authorities – and have also been done – even though the matter may still come as a complaint to me. I fully agree with the representative that security is important, and that should just be lacking! Everyone has an interest and a responsibility in finding solutions that do not cost security. When I suggested in my first answer that I would initiate a meeting between the NRK and the Riksantikvaren, I can reassure the representative of Frøiland that it is also in my interest that it should happen as soon as possible and that it does not go out in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2144	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘The Ministry has developed guidelines on the operation of landfills, requiring, inter alia, measures against birds and the use of bird nets. However, it turns out that these requirements are interpreted somewhat differently from the state to the state. In some places absolute requirements are imposed, while in others the requirements are more modest. What will the Council of State do to allow us to have a common and, hopefully, more modest approach to this throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2153	It is the county officials who have been delegated the power to lay down the conditions for concessions to landfills under the pollution law. State pollution regulators have, on their side, laid down guidelines in 1994 on the design of concessions. In these guidelines from the SFT to the statesmen it is said that there is to be a programme for pest control. The measures shall ensure that organisms in the waste deposited on landfills are not spread to the environment, whether through rats, birds or insects. Bird nets are referred to as a relevant measure, but it is up to each state to decide whether this is necessary for each single landfill on the basis of the extent of the pest problem. There is therefore no general requirement for avian encephalomyelitis on the part of the central environmental authorities. Requirements for the sorting of food waste and better waste cover have otherwise reduced the problem of pests and birds in many landfills in recent years. In many places there is no need for bird nets. I find it natural that it is the county that assesses the need based on the local environmental problems that the landfill leads to. Otherwise, I would like to mention the adoption of a new EU landfill directive to be implemented in Norway. Implementation will result in the adoption of a separate regulation for landfills with more standardised requirements. The SFT is now in the process of preparing such a regulation and will, as a general rule, send it to interested parties to be consulted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2162	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think was very much on the way. The background to my question is the different treatment practices carried out by the county environmental protection departments in the North Trøndelag and Rogaland respectively. In the former state, some flexibility is shown, among others. that Stjørdalen waste site is no longer required for avian encephalitis by implementing alternative bird control measures. In Rogaland, on the other hand, there is a very steep attitude to this issue, and an example of this is the Borgaredalen landfill in the municipality of Karmøy, where a bird nest is imposed despite the planned construction of a roof over the composting plant, and despite the fact that Hubro hedges within the landfill area. Will the Council of State take concrete initiatives towards the county council in Rogaland so that there can also be a sensible judgement here, so that the municipalities are not charged with excessive unnecessary extra costs? As I pointed out from Karmøy, a bird net here will also have a very negative impact on the fauna.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2167	On this issue, I agree that some standardisation is sensible, and it will also result from the job that is now being done in the context of the EU Directive. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we still have a great deal of room for local variation, because there are local variations in the conditions around the landfills and to what extent, for example, there are local variations. pests are a problem. There are also large local variations in the type of action taken. For example, in some places you are. It is much easier to sort out household waste than it is elsewhere, which means that the problem can be reduced in this way. With the information I have so far, I see no need to contact the county councillor in Rogaland in the sense that we want clearer standardisation than what we have today. But of course I want a continuous assessment of whether the arrangements are working properly, and contact me if I find it necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2177	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘Today, as far as I understand, it is the state agency with the help of the state’s name consultants who define place names here in the country. Is this not a matter which should naturally belong to the individual municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2186	Let me first say a little about the case in case names. According to Section 6, second to fourth subparagraphs of the Law of 18 May 1990 No. 11 in the case of city names, the spelling of the location names shall be determined by the following instances: The local authority or authority shall decide on the type of names of municipal streets, roads, parks, squares, neighbourhoods, residential areas, facilities, etc. The municipality also chooses the name that should be used for new naming. The county council or authorising body determines the method of writing for the names of county roads, installations and the like. The competent State body shall determine the spelling of the names of the State administrative areas, installations, etc. unless otherwise provided for by law, regulation or administrative provision. The State Mapping Office decides on the form of writing of other local names. This means, in particular, natural names and usernames which are not to be determined by the owner in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 5. The State Mapping Offices have delegated the site names to the County Maps Offices. According to § 8, public bodies, etc., owners/participants of use and local organisations with specific links to the geographical name may appeal against decisions. Complaints are dealt with by a complaint subject appointed by the Ministry of Culture According to the first paragraph of Section 7, the municipality has the right to express its opinion before a decision is taken on the way in which the place name is written in the municipality. The same is true of local organisations specifically associated with their name. The Local Name Act does not cover the choice of name, only the definition of spelling and the use of multilingual names. One of the purposes of the Code of Place Names is a uniform system of names, one of which, when establishing the form of a font, is based on the local pronunciation, but which selects the main or lateral forms of one or both of the forms best suited to the on-site pronunciation. These main principles were elaborated in the proposition and regulation of the law. So the law's decision-making law is divided into many bodies, and the municipalities are one of them. Now, however, not all municipalities share the same view of the way in which the name is written. Some people want the most dialectical way of writing, others want to approach the forms of writing, with a lot of intermediate points, and this is one of the causes of disagreements that we can experience. Place names are very important to our identity and our entire cultural history. The large local interest is therefore natural and correct. Place names are also linguistic cultural tracks of great importance to the whole nation. An overall regulatory framework is therefore necessary. I am aware that in the years that the law has worked, there has been a dissatisfaction with several aspects of the legislation and its practice. A working group is now in the process of evaluating how the law and regulations have worked in practice. Once this report has been handed over to the Ministry, which will take place during the spring, we will consider what changes may be necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2220	I thank the Council of State for your answer. The last part of her answer was positive, and I hope that Stortinget can also have an opinion about this. But what's the problem is that it's the state's mapping system, which comes from outside, and which has consultants who may not even have grown up in the vicinity of the county or municipality where the city name is to be determined, who are treading over the municipality and the people's city names that are not consistent with the community. I have now bid approx. 30 years of my life on Sunnmøre, and I've barely heard anyone who has said Ørsnesset about the Aursenet in the municipality of Sykkylven, but nevertheless these bureaucrats have decided that the name of the ferry rental, which we call Aursenet, should be Ørsneset – be contrary to the popular community and be contrary to the opinion, which was also on the inside of the council. Would it not be more correct for the municipality to be given this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2227	Let me say that it's basically very good for people to get involved in these things, and of course, we have to strive for local names to be given that people know and that make sense to the local people. That of course must be the starting point. So, as I said, it's a code that's at the bottom, which we're familiar with, that it's been criticised. This is precisely why we have set up this working group to go through the processes so that we can clarify where the problems are in relation to law enforcement. We have to take the case from there. I hope it will be satisfactory that it is recognised that there are some problems here, and we want to look at them more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2254	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2260	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2263	I have a question for the Minister for Culture on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The availability of fish resources in the eastern parts of Oslofjord has evolved in a very negative direction in recent years. At the same time, cell populations in this area have increased sharply. Breeding permits of 10-15 animals are small when Oslofjorden Fiskarlag in its stock register estimates the total population in this area to 2000 sales. Will the Council consider an increase in the set-aside ratio for next year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2272	I would first like to point out that the quota for the capture of seals on the Norwegian coast is set for one year at a time, and that this quota is set on the basis of scientific recommendations. The recommendations of the Marine Research Institute for the current year are based on results from the Institute’s coastal monitoring using a new counting method developed over a five-year period. On a national basis, the new censuses are generally higher for oats and cetaceans than the stock estimates used for quota fixing in 1999. The increase in stock estimates is due to a combination of more precise counting methods and actual population growth. However, in the case of Østfold, the coastal population is estimated to consist of 176 harbours, compared to 300 animals used for quota fixing in 1999. It is now registered approx. 210 hard-coppers in the outer oslofjord. On this basis, a quota of 10 stone copper for felling in Eastfold has been established in 2000. The Ministry of Fisheries is familiar with the stock assessment of Oslofjorden Fiskarlag. The stonecobs in the Outer Oslofjord represent the north border of a much larger population along the coast of Bohuslän. This stock counts approx. 3000 animals, and it is not unreasonable that parts of these populations during periods are on the Norwegian side of the border in line with the Fiskerlages estimate. However, the Ministry of Fisheries has taken into account the recommendations made by the Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, which relate to the part of the population which has regular stays in Norwegian waters. Moreover, for 2000 the Fisheries Directorate has been able to provide for a general increase in the quotas for stone copper by 30 pst. in relation to the recommendations of the researchers in areas where it has been registered that the stone copper causes particular problems for industry. Coastal fisheries quotas in 2001 will be assessed during the autumn, and then based on recommendations from our professional advisors on marine mammals issues. The Ministry of Fisheries is therefore not currently able to decide on any increase in the next year’s quota. At the same time, I would like to stress that the management of coastlines is intended to ensure viable cell populations, but that populations can also be regulated according to ecological and societal considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2287	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can mention that even last summer I was out with the supervision ships «Hugin» and «Munin», and I counted approx. 460 kroner on the short trip we were out in the Outer Oslofjord, at Torbjørnskjær, before I gave up the census. They're often not so easy to see when they're just stabbing their heads over the water in the rebellious seas. It is clear that there must be serious progress here and there must be research reports, etc. Which determines this, but my personal and somewhat subjective impression is that here there is a fjord that is not in ecological balance. For the past three or four years, the inanimate areas of the Oslofjord have stretched further and further westwards and northwards in the Outer Oslofjord. It is worrying that there is an increasing prevalence of empty areas in Oslo. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea, the Research Station Frödevigen, has entered into cooperation with researchers in the Nordic countries to identify, if possible, the cause of this situation, funded by funds from the Nordic Council of Ministers. Will the Ministry take an initiative in order to possibly forge new funds – because it is too small – or grant additional funds so that these researchers can complete the work they have started with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2294	Right, that's the last question-time question, sir. Hedstrom, but it's going too far to think that you can stretch it to over 1:00 p.m. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2297	I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2302	To this specific question, I can inform you that through its work in the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Fisheries will work to ensure that this project can be carried out within a three-year period, starting in 2000. I can inform you that the Ministry of Fisheries has received an application from Oslofjorden Fiskarlag for funds to undertake immediate investigations into the precarious resource situation in the eastern parts of Oslofjorden. This matter is now under consideration in the Department. However, we will have to see this in the context of the Nordic funded project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2309	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-08.ana.ud2126e2318	There is no record.
