ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e64	The President will make suggestions that two presidents of Odelstingen’s meeting are elected today – and see it as agreed. The President is asking for proposals from the Presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e69	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e74	Marit Nybakk and Kjell Engebretsen are recommended as presidents. – Other suggestions are not included, and Marit Nybakk and Kjell Engretsen are jointly elected as President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e86	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 242]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e100	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has presented twelve proposals for legislative changes. The Committee has proposed a new legal provision on benefits for the treatment of orthoptists. In addition, the Progress Party and the Right have promoted their own legislative proposal to shorten pensions against labour income. Some of these proposals I would like to explain. In paragraph 2, the Ministry specifies that chiropractors are not allowed to obtain laboratory samples. A previous amendment of the law was misunderstood, and now the State Health Authority has stated that it is not professionally sound to give the chiropractors the opportunity to request laboratory tests. The Committee agrees. Point 4 provides for grants for work trips referred to in the budget. The Committee supports the proposal that grants for work trips, where this is an alternative to health care notifications, be provided independently of diagnosis. Today, aid is granted only for work travel where there is disease or injury in the support and movement bodies. In addition, the Committee asks the Government to consider a transport aid scheme instead of disability benefits. Point 8 clarifies the concept of the necessary training for lone dependants in relation to the extended transitional benefit. The majority of the Committee supports the proposal and points out that training aid is one of several appropriate instruments to strengthen the opportunities of single dependants in the open labour market, and thus also to achieve economic independence. In paragraph 12, where the proposal provides for the right of asylum to convert a contested decision to the disadvantage of the appellant, the Committee has requested that the matter be referred to the Court of First Instance. The Committee therefore requests that point 12 be returned to the Government. In paragraph 15, the Committee proposed that the right to benefits to cover the treatment of orthoptists should be laid down. In the opinion of the Committee, this legislation will not entail additional expenditure for the State, as patients have received reimbursement based on § 5-22 for more than 30 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e124	I will be allowed to link some comments to some of the proposals for changes made in Ot.prp. No 9th@item: The first point concerns grants for work travel in the Social Security Act §§ 8-14 and Article 10-7. It is worth noting that a joint committee says that it has been made aware of the fact that disabled people who are unable to drive a car or use public transport have assessed whether they can afford to work at all, due to a lack of support for work travel. The alternative then becomes a disability pension. For these, today's arrangements are in fact not sufficient as the Government suggests in the proposition. The Committee is of the opinion that permanent support for working trips should be provided to those persons in order to enable them to take up work. It is therefore worth noting that a unanimous committee is promoting the following proposals: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess a system of transport aid instead of disability benefits in cases where PRM is the only reason for the disability benefit and where it has the possibility of permanent employment.’; The Progress Party is very pleased that a unanimous committee is behind this proposal and hopes that the work can be done quickly, so that these people can get a chance to get into work. In presenting this proposition, the Government has proposed that the second paragraph of Section 20 of the Social Security Act be amended so as to allow the right of social security to be converted to the disadvantage of the beneficiary. In principle, of course, it is most important that the law be complied with, whether it be for the benefit of the individual or for the benefit of the individual. However, there is reason to believe that many will not appeal to the Social Security Court if there is a possibility of a lower benefit. This, in turn, could lead to the loss of the right to benefit by many who claim better benefits than they receive. It is also an important element that, with the very complex rules that are used to support most of the issues in popular terms, it is impossible for many people to fully understand their own issues of social security. The party to the proceedings has therefore taken a position in this case which requires that the right of appeal should not be subject to any adverse effects. A majority of the Committee has not concluded on the matter as the Advance Party has done, but sends the matter back to the Government so that it can be sent to the hearing, which has not yet been done in this case. The Progress Party must therefore be pleased that, at least at this stage, the Committee does not support the Government's wish to have the Right of Social Security decided at a disadvantage. The Progress Party will therefore also vote in favour of the proposal to send the case back and out at the hearing. The Progress Party considers it necessary to legislate vested rights in the public interest – this in order to improve the ability of future pensioners to plan their own retirement life with reasonable certainty that given conditions do not change after vesting in popular security has taken place. Therefore, contrary to what the Government proposes, the party of progress will have a provision in the public interest that ensures this. The Progress Party therefore proposes this in line with the position of the Committee on Social Security in NOU 1995:29. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is on its own or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e144	The representative Nesvik has taken up the proposals he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e147	I am very pleased that the committee has addressed this with work trips. People will live by their own work. That's the primary way of living in our country, and that's what we see as good social policy. Then it's regrettable that some people in this country can't actually live on their own work because they can't get there. The Ministry is now working on a nationwide effort to find out how many there are who really need this, and in what way we can best meet the needs both in terms of work travel and educational travel. This we will come back to just over New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e154	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 244]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e168	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 247]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e182	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e191	Two issues on the agenda today address the issue of electronic signature. The first concerns the agreement of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of a Community framework for electronic signatures in Annex XI to the EEA Agreement. This has been dealt with in Stortinget. The second is the one we are now dealing with in Odelstinget, which follows up the directive with a Norwegian law on electronic signature. While parts of the Directive are already regulated by Norwegian law, the Ministry has chosen to propose the implementation of the Directive in a separate new law and its related regulations. The use of the Internet has increased very rapidly in Norway. This applies, for example: banking services, the provision of self-declaration and communication via the fast and global e-mail. Trade over the Internet is also becoming more and more common. This development has triggered the need to have systems and control procedures, so that one can be sure that the consignor is the one to whom he or she refers. The aim is therefore to have an electronic signature or signature as accepted and binding as a handwritten signature by paper-based communication. A harmonised regulatory framework for electronic signatures in Europe will help prevent barriers to trade and make use of the network safe for both individuals and businesses. The other Nordic countries have worked and are also working to have laws regulating the use of electronic signatures. In Denmark, the law has entered into force from 1 October this year. In my view, the proposed legal text is very open, in the sense that the legal text does not set a narrow framework that can limit the development of different electronic signature systems. As electronic signatures are accepted and put into service, a few experiences will show in the next round whether there is a need to tighten up the provisions of the law. Because this is a new law and a new way of ensuring the conclusion of agreements between two parties, there are a number of definitions in the legal text. This, of course, makes it possible that the legislative proposal may seem theoretical and difficult to make available, and it may be problematic to grasp the scope of the law today. Similarly, it may be difficult to imagine how the use of electronic signature will take place in practice. When the systems come in place, it's probably not going to be more mysterious than using the Internet bank today. In order to ensure trust between the consignor and the consignee, signatures shall be issued together with a third party certificate, in the law known as the certificate issuer. The Act states that the signatures and certificates on the Norwegian market should achieve a certain level of safety. When present, these products are called qualified. Such a qualified signature shall have the same legal effect as a handwritten signature. Other electronic signatures that do not qualify for the designation may also be used. However, there is reason to believe that users would prefer the highest level of security, and that qualified signatures thus become the leader in electronic commerce and communications where a person wants to be sure that he or she communicates with is really the right person. It is also important that the manufacture of signatures is made as safe as possible and that there is good protection against counterfeiting. The legislative proposal has also taken account of the fact that no more administration than is necessary for the implementation of the law, but that it is nevertheless sufficient. The supervisory system for issuers of qualified certificates is initially attached to the Post and Telecommunications Authority. The Committee agrees that this appears natural during the start-up phase of the use of electronic signature. The adoption of the Electronic Signature Act facilitates the further development of the use of the Internet. The importance of this for trading and conclusion of agreements over the network is uncertain. But there is reason to believe that this can be of great importance in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e217	I will first commend the case rapporteur, Brandsnes, for going into a very heavy matter. However, there is one area that more and more will benefit from in the future. The current legislative proposal is part of the government’s work in the field of ICT, which is also presented in the Government’s eNorway action plan. We know that the market for electronic signatures is developing rapidly, and it is therefore important, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that the legislative proposal that has now been drawn up is not restrictive, but gives it the further direction, within a high degree of security. It is important that regulation ensures that the issuer of electronic signatures uses good procedures so that we can have confidence in the signatures. An important purpose of this bill is to ensure that parties who are unknown to each other know who they are communicating with over the network, thereby facilitating electronic commerce. The drafting of this bill has also taken place in close cooperation with the other Nordic countries. Through this, we have been able to ensure a common Nordic understanding of the EU directive to which we are now adapting and have been given almost identical implementation of the directive at Nordic level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e228	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 248]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e242	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. The President will also propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e251	It has been several years since the Ministry of Justice of the United Kingdom provided the basis for the debate today. With several refugees and asylum seekers to Europe, including Norway, there was a need for an alternative complaint mechanism. Not only drowned the current minister in individual cases, it was also a long way from the complainant to the ministry. I believe the path for someone who thinks he has mistreated is shorter for the new foreign subject than it is for the department. It's because of two factors: Firstly, humanitarian organisations have members in this category. These organisations are just concerned with racism, anti-semitism, persecution and human rights violations, or all over the world. And these organizations have the best knowledge – perhaps the best knowledge available in Norway, at least very good knowledge – of the country and the conditions in the country from which the complainant comes. Individual, local, or perhaps special circumstances that make just the following complaints seem persecuted, can be verified, or perhaps falsified, better, I believe, than what to date has been the case. I believe that refugee subjects, or foreign subjects, as they should be called, will have a less tendency towards stencil treatment – of course that is not the policy, but it will be easy – and at least more likely to see the individual than other public bodies have. I think it’s trustworthy – and that’s one of the reasons why a group committee is behind what is now to be decided. There have been some changes in the composition of the name, but the majority in the committee believe that legal security has been breached, although the names of their members have been reduced from five to three. The requirement that it be acceptable is that humanitarian organisations should always be represented. The second provision for the Foreign Affairs Department to be a strengthening of asylum seekers and refugees' rights is that personal attendance is the main rule in asylum matters. We believe that where a refusal has been made and a complaint has been lodged, it is necessary for the asylum seeker to meet and present his version. There will be a few now, with the scheme selected. The activity of the foreign student shall be evaluated. With new schemes, empirical adjustments and assessments can be lucky. Although I – and to the extent that the Committee – believe that the foreign student is an innovation for asylum seekers and refugees and for the benefit of human rights, it is safe to evaluate it. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who might like to reduce the pressure on the Minister. But at least my Christian People's Party and my Christian People's Party had reason to be positive about the subject, however, was the asylum seeker's welfare, and not the minister's. The committee setting is consistent, although some parties in the form of a comment indicate that they have been and are inconsistent with the principle of the new denominator.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e270	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 251]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e284	With the opinion of the Financial Committee of the Act amending the Act on Occupational Pensions, there is another stone in the new Occupational Pensions Act. Norway has been late in modernising its legislation relating to occupational pensions under the Tax Code. But over the last year, this has changed dramatically. The third proposition now passes Odelstinget, and we are no longer the only country in Europe, together with Finland, which does not have deposit arrangements under the tax law. Through the new law, the Stortinget has made an important contribution to building the class distinction between those who have pension schemes in working conditions and those close to a million workers who currently have only the benefits of social security to fall back on when they become pensioners. A recent survey showed that 4000 enterprises that do not have pension schemes plan to set up deposit schemes. This is a promising start, even though it is far from a million enterprises without a pension scheme in employment. The government estimates 40,000 new ones only for next year. The law applicable to Odelstinget tonight opens up the possibility for undertakings wishing to have an insurance-based pension scheme with a mortality inheritance to establish it, but without the uncertainty inherent in the contributions linked to a pension benefit scheme under the provisions of the law on occupational retirement provision. Many small and medium-sized enterprises that have previously found traditional animal benefit schemes will have many schemes to choose from with the new legislation, not least pension schemes, both under the law on occupational retirement provision – the one we are dealing with today – and under the law on defined contribution pensions, which are more economically affordable and predictable. These are pension schemes that have been shown to function as well internationally for employees as for performance schemes, while the deposit schemes have proved to be less economically risky for each individual enterprise. In dealing with the deposit pension law, there was a majority in order to soften the rules on collective investment funds. The same is confirmed in the present suspension, and one also wants a one-off occupational pension to be created without a zero return guarantee. This proposal now also partly supports the Labour Party, and that is a good thing. What happens through the establishment of such a scheme, both in defined contribution schemes and in the law on occupational retirement provision without zero return guarantees, is that more products will be selected, in addition to the fact that more can actually receive an offer. If the proposal for a mandatory annual zero-percent guarantee had been retained, it would have been very unfortunate. It would dampen the chances of taking risks, and in the next round, the possibilities of higher returns. In this way, you can actually get more reasonable occupational pension agreements, so that more people can actually get a chance to do so. The Committee was in favour of the same decoration of the one-off occupational pension scheme as the Credit Authority had been consulted on the draft law and for which the supervisory review was also supported by the majority of the Committee on Finance in the context of the Post-Insurance Pension Act. It is clear from the Credit Authority’s consultation opinion dated 2 August that it is easy to implement the model legally and that supervision has also made a concrete proposal on how this can be done. The majority of the Committee attaches great importance to the entry into force, at the same time and as early as possible in 2001, of the different models of investment funds regulated by the law on occupational retirement provision and by the law on pension contributions, and to the promotion by the Government, by the end of February at the latest, of proposals for collective investment funds for a single paid occupational pension as well as collective investment funds for a defined contribution pension, based on the proposal of the Credit Authority, and the senior management of the Financial Committee. O. No 2 for 2000–2001 on the pension contribution law — i.e. without zero return guarantee. There is also a majority in the vote for the Government to return with feedback and proposals by April 2001 in line with the unexplained aspects of the Post-Insurance Pensions Act and the ongoing occupational pension. It is then linked to what the majority in the form of proposals asked the Government to look at and make proposals for. That's it. opening up parallel schemes, allowing for a defined contribution pension and occupational retirement provision in the same enterprise a positive attitude taken by the Committee on Combination Schemes, which allows for a defined contribution pension at the top of an occupational pension scheme to have a higher maximum contribution rate to close existing performance schemes so that those currently in a defined benefit scheme are entitled to stand in the scheme until retirement age regulatory changes for subcontracting also provide more flexible product design, and the Committee has then asked the Council of State to make proposals in line with it. In today's labour market, as mentioned above, there is a strong need for greater flexibility and freedom of choice in the design of occupational pension schemes. While all public sector workers have good occupational pension schemes, only every third employee in the private sector has occupational pension schemes in addition to social security. That is why I believe that today's Odelsting's decision of this law will be an important contribution to the integration of the Pension-Norway class division, and that we have more products to choose from. This is a clear majority in favour of greater product freedom. I am pleased that the Council of State has given feedback that the Government is living well with a deadline during February to present proposals that do not contain a mandatory zero return guarantee. I am also pleased that the other questions I raised will be clarified by the end of April. There will therefore be no problem in implementing the legislation quite early to next year, and Norway will then have a modern law relating to occupational pension schemes. I also hope that more people will be offered occupational pensions, because there are great differences between those who have only the right to social security and those who have occupational pensions in addition, not least because of the restrictions imposed by the Storting in the supplementary pensions for the population's security in 1992. If, over 20 years, you have earned what is now average labour income, 300,000 kroner according to the national budget, you will receive an annual pension of 145000 kroner through the social security system and the cuts that have been made. If you have an occupational pension scheme through a municipality/state or a private scheme that is equal to that because it is a net scheme and not a gross scheme, as in the state, you will be left with a pension of NOK 200000. So there's a difference of $55,000 a year between those who have occupational pensions and those who don't. This I believe it has not been focused on. What the Storting is now doing is opening up the hundreds of thousands in the private sector who don't have such an offer, to a greater extent. Finally, I would like to say that there is only one point I am not particularly satisfied with in the setting that exists. That is the discrimination that the majority of the Storting has committed between those covered by the AFP scheme and those outside. If you are in the NHO/LO area and you have the right to an AFP scheme, you can continue in your occupational pension agreement until you reach the age of 67, even if you lose your pension. If you're outside the AFP scheme and you're in the private sector, you can't stay in the occupational pension scheme and lose hundreds of thousands of dollars in pensions. I don't think our law should add to that kind of discrimination. Neither can anyone stand in the occupational pension scheme after early retirement, which was the original proposal of the Bondevik government, or you get to make a plan where everyone can continue in the occupational pension agreement, even if you have retired early retirement. What we have now got is a real class distinction between those who are in the AFP system and those who are outside. A throw system in Pensjon-Norway I don't think is commendable. I hope that the majority can take it inwards and vote in favour of the proposal on non-discrimination promoted by the Progress Party and the Right. That's the smallest thing you can ask for at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e342	Mr. Brende has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e345	There's a lot going on in the area of retirement right now. It's good for them — almost one million — who don't have a pension scheme. Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, has proposed that the Government return with proposals for occupational retirement provision that will ensure lifelong performance. Lifelong benefits were proposed by the Centre Parties and the Socialist Left in the consideration of the Entrepreneurship Act earlier this year, but the proposal did not receive a majority. The majority argued that the social partners themselves should decide on the duration of pension benefits but that it should not be possible to agree on benefits for less than 10 years. The main reason for this was that for many workers there will be no mention of either a fixed-term or a permanent performance, but a limited-time performance or no performance. The reason is that the cost of a lifetime benefit can be too high. The majority were therefore concerned with ensuring as much as possible an occupational pension, and that the best would not be the enemy of the good. In the discussion of the deposit pension law, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left proposed that a lifelong performance be required. It was also not the time for the proposal, and it was, because otherwise we would have had different rules on the payment time for corporate pensions and pension contributions, and there would have been no good solution. To promote the proposal again, just one month after we last discussed the same matter, is to ask for rematch in an area where these parties know that they will not have a majority. It's pretty amazing. In other areas, the world is moving forward. I am pleased to note that the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left this time accept that there is a different premium to be paid for women and men, and that the question of gender-neutral contributions must be resolved on a broad basis. In the treatment of the deposit pension law, which we dealt with just one month ago, these parties went against the possibilities of different premiums. I hope and believe that at that time they only saw one side of the case, namely that different premiums could lead to that it was more expensive to hire women than men. But this case also has another side: that equal premium for women and men means that women get a less pension than men. This is true even though women have earned the same amount of money and have worked for as long as their male colleagues. None of these sides are unproblematic for any of the parties, from a point of view of equality. I am therefore pleased that we now have a common understanding that this is a complex problem that needs to be solved on a broad basis. The work on this is now under way, on Friday the Government put down a sample to explore the possibilities for gender-neutral contributions. As far as I know, only one country has adopted this earlier, but has not been able to implement the measure because they have no good solution to it – it is Denmark. And then we're going to hope that the sample that the government has put down now can come up with a solution that allows Norway to be the country that can put it into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e362	I look at the case-speaker's review and recommendation from the committee and I strongly agree with the presentation he gave there. In addition, I will briefly show that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left in connection with the Inner Party. O. No 2 for 2000-2001 pointed out that important issues relating to equality policy and equality law are raised in connection with the intrusion-based pension and also occupational retirement provision. In that context, these parties said in the innermost part. O. No Article 2 is ‘These members refer to the Government’s intention to submit proposals for amendments to the Corporation Pensions Act. In doing so, these members will make proposals for lifelong payments.’.» There is a reason why this proposal has now been raised again, and nothing else. Our primary point of view is that we need to identify schemes that do not distinguish women from men as pensioners and that do not result in women's labour becoming more expensive than men's. The fact that the government has reduced a selection to settle the issue of gender-neutral premiums is a step in the right direction. But I would like to stress strongly that such distribution should not take a long time. The reality is that this is, to a large extent, a question of principle, and therefore it was important for me to point it out in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e378	I would like to link some comments from the Center Party's page to two themes that have already been mentioned by several speakers. In connection with the law on inbound pensions, the question of different payments for women and men and the question of lifelong benefits was raised. We were listening to the minority that was not happy with the Labour Party's proposal at this point. We basically don't want to accept a pension scheme that can only be paid out for ten years, considering that most people will need the same income for a longer time. We've been on it, as we've been notifying that we're going to take this matter up again. When there's a different payment, I'm not going to go into the foundation very carefully for that, I think everyone is thinking. It's a discriminatory starting point, we don't want to add up to a system where it's up to businesses to assign men to women. We came into minority. We were very pleased that the Labour Party was involved in, as the representative Signe Eye says here, that the world is moving forward, by notifying a selection to see closer to this. And I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Finance for having followed this up quickly and for having looked down on a selection to look closer to these issues. It is wrong to interpret it so that we have changed our vision, and I also thought the representative Lars Gunnar Lie did very well. We meet with interest in the selection's work. I have to say, we're a little bit surprised that the Labour Party is still leading a argument against both of these points. One is to recognize that it's hard to find plans, something else is to have at least an exposure to improvement. It is true that in many contexts — including in international contexts — the Labour Party wants to profile Norway as a progressing country in the field of equality. Then this is a new contribution to it. So we would like the Minister of Finance here to see closer on the basis of a corporate pension that guarantees lifelong payments. I include proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, SV and the Left, and would like to see more voices for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e389	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e392	When Stortinget dealt with the law on occupational retirement provision earlier this year, SV was largely satisfied with the main lines. It is now important to have a pension scheme for those who do not have occupational retirement provision. It started well, but after two treatments, of two different occupational pension schemes that have both given leadership, we have now received a final result that has, on many points, gone in the opposite direction to what SV wanted. It has become a poorer distribution profile, and in particular it has become a far too poor female profile than the starting point. In dealing with the deposit pension law, SV made proposals to improve this on several points. We then suggested that a pension for women should not be more expensive, that one should be guaranteed throughout his life and not just for ten years, that the financial risk should lie with the employer and that employee influence over pension schemes and management should be strengthened. What surprises us – and perhaps disappoints us the most – is what the representative of the Central Party was also talking about, that the Workers' Party still argues against a better women's profile. They have in some way failed in the fight to equalise women and men in pension schemes. The fact that the Labour Party argues for a policy that either makes it more expensive to hire women than to hire men, or that is to provide them with worse pension plans, says a little about the fact that women's struggle and solidarity with those who earn little, may also be on the waving front in the Workers' Party. On average, women live longer than men, they also earn less during life, and the retirement rate in the population is such that women average less than men. For SV, gender equality policies are solidarity and sharing for the benefit of those who have the least. It is therefore a guiding principle in all schemes – it is important and must be on the ground. SV therefore joins the centre parties today to promote a notified proposal for changes that we believe should correct some of the discrimination between women and men. And as far as I'm concerned, LO agrees with us. I think it's a little embarrassing that it should be the way it is now, and I think that many will react quite sharply when they discover this a little prehistoric way to discriminate against women and men. Stepping away from lifelong performance is also a policy of welfare and gender mainstreaming. Lifelong benefits are an obvious requirement that should be set at tax-deductible pension schemes. SV also disagreed with opening up parallel deposit and benefit schemes in the same business during the previous proceedings of the pension funds. For SV, it is important that all employees should be members of the same pension scheme on the grounds of treating all employees equally. Class-shared pension schemes are lopsided. For SV, it is also a clear principle that the employee should be protected from impairment when the entity determines the risk profile of the funds. When examining the deposit pension law, it became the majority to go away from the zero guarantee and thus allow the deposits to vary from year to year. For SV, it is an important principle that decision-making powers and responsibilities must belong together. The majority’s proposals will result in enterprises being given a share in the return, but no responsibility for loss. It will motivate businesses to take a high risk, but it is the workers who have to bear the risk. Such a distribution is considered unreasonable. The almost one million employees in the private sector who are now, hopefully, going to have a pension agreement, derive from a contract agency which, in the SV's view, takes too much account of the financial industry and too little consideration for the workers, especially for women. The sum of the alternating majority means that the law on occupational retirement provision is not good enough in terms of solidarity, and it belongs politically to women in the museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e413	It's going to be line change. The President will propose that the change of lines be limited to three lines – and will consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e418	I did not intend to go into any line change, but the posts of both the representative Karin Andersen and the speaker before her contained some errors that I should not seem to be contradictory. The impression is created that you are going ‘away from lifelong performance’ – and I quote Andersen, the representative. The point is that with existing pension legislation, i.e. the TPES scheme – occupational retirement provision under the tax law – there is a full possibility of not agreeing on lifelong benefits. Some companies have said that they would like to provide their employees with an occupational pension and that they can provide them with a occupational pension from 67 years to 77 years. That's very good. Of course, the best thing would have been if it was a lifelong benefit, but we have to remember that many do not have occupational pension at all! The SV and the Central Party may feel that everyone should get it, but then one must go the law and decide that there should be a compulsory occupational retirement provision agreement. Of course, it would cost a few tens of billions, and it's quite unlikely that the Storting can do it overnight – there's a matter between the social partners. But you must not try to present it as if the Senterparte and SV have had any other positions here than the rest of us! When former government councillor Gudmund Restad, from the Central Party, promoted the law on corporate pensions, there was no proposal – and I think that the representative Meltveit Kleppa should notice – in the draft law that a working group should be set up to look at equal payments for women and men. There was something about the Center Party after the government of Bondevik had left. Suddenly, everyone else is accused of not having a female profile, but that female profile is actually a pure election campaign game on the part of the Center Party. Lifelong benefits are not required by today's pension scheme, and with the women's perspective, which is important, we all agree on. Now the government has also reduced a sample to review it, so at least I don't understand what you're fighting for. Now you have simply fulfilled what has been wanted as well. But then you are obviously more concerned with the map than with the terrain, and I find that regrettable when we are now implementing such an important legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e427	The president is a little uncertain whether the line was the coin of the representative Andersen or of the representative Meltveit Kleppa – but Karin Andersen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e431	I became a bit of a stunned sail. Gudmund Restad and his Minister of Finance period I am not prepared to take responsibility for. I understand that when you stress the women's perspective, it's a little difficult for everyone. And I'm not going to take from the other parties that they probably also mean this in the long term. What makes me more despondent is an active argument against. That's more what I'm responding to. Had you put on a line where you had said that this is a goal and you want to work towards this, it would have been easier to accept the result without commenting on it. When it comes to the concept of ‘going away from lifelong performance’, I will accept that it might be a use of words that should not have been just like that. Our point is that we believe that if we are to take care of the aspects of equality policy of a system, we want it to be that way. That is why this proposal has been put forward today. I don't think it's necessary to say so much more about it. That the majority here also want this, and that you work against it, I won't suspect anyone not to mean when they say it. But I probably wish there had been a little more drag behind the muscles that were going to get this in place, so that it could be a better women's political profile than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e440	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e443	The presentation and treatment of this law on changes in the law on occupational retirement provision, etc. is part of a major modernisation of the legislation on pensions in private sector employment. The starting point is, as the rapporteur pointed out, that a very large proportion of those employed in the private sector do not have such pension schemes and that the likelihood of them achieving them is significantly increased by the new legislation. This process started with the treatment of the new law on occupational retirement provision and continued with the law on pension contributions. The provisions for a lump-sum occupational pension referred to in Ot.prp. No 20, contributes to completeing the new supplementary pension legislation. I therefore note with satisfaction that the Financial Committee is joining in the legislative amendments proposed by the Government in this proposition. The reform and modernisation work we have been through means that, when the law on occupational retirement provision and pension contributions enters into force from 1 January 2001, we will have a time-limited regulatory framework in this area that takes account of policy objectives of distribution, the need for professional participation and the need for flexibility of businesses. In this way, we have also provided a basis for several of the entities that have not established such arrangements for their employees today to be able to do so. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 71 for 1999-2000, on the Employment Pensions Act, the Stortingen decided to ask the Government to return to the Stortingen with proposals and assessments at certain points. Of course, the Ministry attaches great importance to the rapid follow-up of these questions. I note that it is underlined by the majority of the Financial Committee, and the Government is asked to make proposals for collective investment funds for a single paid corporate pension as well as for collective investment funds in a defined contribution pension by the end of February 2001. I also note that the majority of the Committee recalls that feedback on the other unresolved issues should be provided to the Stortinget by April 2001 at the latest. Questions relating to the rules of operation of insurance are now dealt with by the Banking Act Commission, which is given the time limit for submitting its observations at this point until 1 July next year. The follow-up to this setting will be given high priority. I assume that Odelstinget does not see the need to await the implementation of the new law pending clarification of the changes that remain, and that the law on occupational retirement provision and pension law can be enforced on 1 January 2001, as foreseen. I have noticed that the majority in the committee believes it is important to find schemes that do not discriminate between women and men, either in the workplace or as pensioners. Of course, I agree with that. Among other things, a clear emphasis was placed on this at the national meeting of the Workers' Party, where it was stated as an objective that inequalities should not be eliminated over the lifetime. In this context, I point out that on December 8th, a public selection under the leadership of Mary Kvidal was appointed to investigate the question of gender-neutral contributions in life insurance on a broad basis. In the light of the recent debate here in the Chamber, I note that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa commends the appointment of such a sample. I'm happy to accept that. But when it comes to the question of change of vision, we might say that the central parties have gone a little way back and forth – first through the law on corporate pensions, presented by the government of Bondevik, where there were gender-like premiums, which the centre parties voted for, then the law on deposit pensions, promoted by the government of Stoltenberg, which had exactly the same basis, as the central parties voted against, and now the law on changes in corporate pensions, which is based on exactly the same principles, as the central parties vote for. I believe that it is important to establish, as the rapporteur in his reply also did, that the issue of different premiums for women and men is pervasive in Norwegian insurance legislation, and there is a need for considerable investigation work to implement changes on that point. The government has started this investigation with the clear objective of reaching gender-neutral premiums. Just as fully, it's obvious that here there's a lot of challenges that you have to find answers to before you get that far. But the work to get there is under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e472	A historical overview has been provided here from both the case spokespersons and the last from the Minister of Finance. I'm sure it's part of that overview that on one of the two points that are currently the topic of discussion, that is, when it relates to the length of the corporate pension, there was a strong commitment from the Bondevik government and from the center of the Storting for lifelong benefits, so I'd like it to be confirmed. Then I thought that this historical overview above all points to the fact that here there is a broad commitment to improvement both when it relates to the number of those who are going to have the ability to enter into arrangements like this, and when it relates to the relationship between women and men, whether it relates to the length of these benefits or to what is very decisive, namely the size of the amount of payment and then to what is paid out. I could now imagine that the Minister of Finance, when he has come so far that he has appointed a selection and given that selection a mandate, also says something in relation to progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e481	I would like to confirm to the representative, Mr Kleppa, that the Bondevik Government laid down the provision in respect of length, for which the representative wanted confirmation, and I would also like to confirm to the representative, Mr Brende, that the current legislation has provided the flexibility described by the rapporteur in the change of line, which has to date been continued in the new legislation. I assume that the representative, Kleppa, may be able to confirm that it was actually the case that the law on occupational retirement provision was based on the applicable legislation in relation to gender inequalities, and we can confirm a little for each other. What's equally full here is that now we've actually taken hold of it. I must openly admit that I see clear weaknesses in a system based on gender premiums. This is also the reason why the Government has reduced the sample to assess it and where there is both insurance professional competence and equal opportunities competence. At the same time, I think it is important that we recognise that this is a problem that is not easy to find answers to. A brief illustration of this is the idea of a regulatory framework for gender-neutral premiums in Norway, while foreign competitors do not have the same commitment, possibly having a company that is set up against clearly man-dominated occupations, which would then be able to offer lower premiums than the one with a larger width. There are a number of competition issues that are at the heart of finding solutions to the challenge facing you. But the government has taken up the work. We aim to make this work over the next year, in order to be able to preferably have the sample settings submitted by 1 September. It provides an opportunity to carry out the necessary hearings with treatment so that we can achieve a reasonably rapid progress in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e492	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 252]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e508	Ot. pp. No 24 contains a number of proposals for amendments to the Tax Act, many of which are purely technical in nature, and the Committee is essentially in line with the Government's proposals. In some areas, however, there are deviations. In addition, I would therefore just like to comment on some individual proposals where there is disagreement, or where the proposals are of a more principleal nature. The draft law on the distribution of debt and interest on debt between Norway and the rest of the world relates in particular to two aspects which are affected by the proposed changes. The Ministry advocates that the taxpayer should be fully deducted from his debt in the event of the liquidation when he has real estate or land in Norway either does not have a tax agreement or has a credit-based tax agreement. Such an extension of the right to deduct liabilities from the applicable rules requires, at the same time, the introduction of a tax liability on immovable property in the rest of the world, so that we obtain symmetry in the law. The proposal could lead to an increase in the tax on wealth, but this would, for most people, mean a reduction in the tax burden by providing taxpayers with all their debt interest and deductions to Norway. Maybe there's a lot of cabin owners in the Nordic region that will be able to benefit from this. The second relationship relates to issues of debt interest deductions in which taxpayers have income and wealth exempted from taxation in Norway. A weakness of the rules in force is that they only concreteise real estate assets as a condition for the distribution of debt and debt interest, which means that a curtailment in the right to deduct does not occur if taxpayers engage in other activities that generate income. For example, a Norwegian bank with a branch in a country where income is exempt from taxation in Norway under tax agreements will not have a curtailment of the debt interest deducted from the equation in Norway. As is the case today, such establishments will be able to receive interest rebates both in Norway and in the country in which the income is generated and thus actually receive double interest rebates. Such opportunities have hardly been intended, and the new rules will thus reconstitute an unintended hole in tax legislation. A unanimous committee subscribes to the Government's proposal. A majority also subscribes to the Government’s proposal on the entry into force of the Act as of the 2000 income year. A unanimous committee also endorses the Government’s proposal to equalise the surplus and cohesion funds with the share capital of the basic funds in the savings banks. Today, surplus funds and cohesion funds are not exempt from the taxation of savings banks. In order to prevent the capital of these funds from being taxed on wealth both by the savings banks and by the fund holders, the Ministry proposes that the funds be exempted from the assets of the savings banks. The Kraftskat reform has a long history, and with the implementation of Property Tax Act Section 8 is beginning to approach the end of a long reform process. The principles of new valuation rules were adopted in 1996 and in Ot.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000 the Government promoted proposals for new rules. The starting point of the Government’s proposal was that the combined power stations should be secured with an income base of approximately DKK 1 billion. However, the Government’s proposal provided an income base of 915 million. kr, something that the Storting accepted on the basis of the low power prices as a fulfillment of the stated assumption of the Storting. A unanimous increase — including the centre parties — concluded that the new rules would be put into effect from 1 January 2001, provided that this level of revenue was reached. When the subsequent calculations showed a proceeds for the power stations of 180 million. Under the conditions, the Minister of Finance warned of the need for legislative changes in order to ensure the intentions of Storting. That's what we're dealing with now. The government is now proposing to increase the minimum value of the natural resource tax base to NOK 1.10. This will meet the assumptions of a unanimous increase and will give total revenues of 925 million based on estimates. kr to the municipalities of power. Thus, the Storting’s previous condition for the implementation of Section 8 of the Property Tax Act would be present. It is important to stress that through the hearings in the Committee, the Landverband der Vasskraftkommuner – LVK – also expressed satisfaction with the Government’s proposal to raise the minimum value of the basis of the natural resource tax to DKK 1.10, thus accepting this as a satisfactory income base for the electricity municipalities as a whole. However, it is not possible to get under the chair that both the LVK and several municipalities have expressed their concern that some municipalities could have a greater loss of income than expected, and concerns about the process of taxiing, and have pointed to the right of access and redress in this respect. As regards both the right of access to information and the right to appeal, the majority of the Committee considers that the Ministry will ensure adequate transparency for the municipalities and return to the Court of Justice. The Minister of Finance has also announced that he will return to Stortinget with an assessment of the proposed changes during 2002. Based on this, I would also like to recall when we discussed this matter last, and refer to comments in Innst. O. No 85 for 1999-2000, which reads: ‘However, the majority would point out that there is still reason to ask questions as to whether the distribution effects between municipalities are within an acceptable framework, and would ask the Ministry to assess whether, in the light of experience gained in the implementation of the Property Tax Act, § 8 is necessary for adjustments in order to avoid adverse distribution effects between individual municipalities.’ This I feel confident that the department will also come back to. With this, I would recommend that the Committee's position be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e560	There are three things I need to point out from our side. In the context of the 2001 Budget Agreement, concluded between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party, it was provided that the proposal for new rules on the distribution of debt and debt-interest deductions between Norway and the rest of the world will have an effect on the taxable taxable persons who are liable for arrears from the 2000 financial year onwards. The progress party and the Right have clearly stated in the setting that we cannot agree to changes that give retroactive effect. For this reason, we have also promoted our own proposal. We believe it would be reasonable for predictability, not least – which is a very central word you use in this room, but which you may not always be as good as follow-up in practice – to wait until 2001 at least. It would have been very good if more people had been able to support that proposal, but unfortunately it doesn't look like that. Another aspect is the question of power taxation. The starting point of the Party for the treatment of amended rules on property taxes on power plants includes, inter alia, the following: to ensure that the tax should not be so rigid that power companies cannot bear the tax burden this year at low electricity prices. However, the majority of the population have long assumed that the new property tax rules that enter into force from New Year’s onwards, for example: must ensure individual municipalities against unacceptable loss of income. It has been a prerequisite for a long time. The same majority took reservations, including: Int. O. No 85 for 1999-2000, to make further changes to the 2001 national budget if the tax loss for some municipalities becomes unacceptable. For example, the Municipality of Kvinesdal has calculated an income loss of 75 pst. as a result of the introduction of the Property Tax Act § 8 – only for that municipality. In that case, it will be in stark contrast to a 15 - pst decline. If this is the case for other municipalities as well, I would assume that for their part it would be quite interesting to know what the same majority that has used these assumptions in the past is going to do to deal with this question when you actually don't want such a dramatic outcome. It might therefore be interesting to hear the Minister of Finance's assessments on that point. The last relationship I want to address is the changes in the shipping bill that are proposed here. The Progress Party and the Right have previously entered in order to remove the loan ban in the Tax Act § 8-12. We are still standing by it and are therefore in favour of it in this case. I allow myself to take up the suggestions that the Advance Party and the Right have made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e577	The representative, Siv Jensen, has taken up the suggestions she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e580	Ot. pp. No 24 for 2000-2001 is an aggregate proposition for some changes and creations in tax laws and other laws. Now I want to use a few minutes to comment on one of the things that have been included in the proposition, and then one of the things that have not been included in the proposition, but that might have been there. Point 4 of the adjustment relates to property taxes, § 8. This paragraph has a long, not to say a heavy history. It shouldn't be necessary to draw a whole story now, but I'm going to say at the beginning that the approach proposed by the department at last to correct the loss of wealth for the municipalities, on the macro-plane, is a well-functioning measure with reasonable success. Therefore, a joint committee joins the proposed amendment in Section 8. But the centre party will vote against Roman number II, which applies to the moment of introduction. Here, the central part of the Stortinget will vote for a proposal inviting the Government to postpone the introduction of §8 to 1 January 2002. The background for this is, among other things, following: First, the municipal distribution of the proceeds is so that some municipalities seem to get very poor. Estimates of loss of proceeds of up to 40 pst are shown. and even more for some municipalities. It goes without saying that it is not easy to adapt to such a loss of income during the night. According to the Christian People's Party's view, the ministry must come back with measures and mechanisms that prevent the introduction of § 8 from leading to a strong redistribution between municipalities. This may, for example: is made by establishing an upper limit and a lower limit of the income deviation of each municipality as a result of the introduction of the aforementioned paragraph. This is one of the reasons why we are going in to postpone the implementation of Section 8 by one year. Secondly, municipalities lack a general right to complain, both in terms of the ownership tax base and the municipal distribution. We have noticed that the Minister of Finance has stated that he will evaluate such a right of appeal for later years. But already on the introduction of a new taxiing system, errors may occur. Therefore, the General Court of Appeal should have been available already in connection with the implementation of Section 8. There is an additional argument to suspend the implementation. Thirdly, I would like to stress that the real estate tax base is not yet known. As a result, municipalities have serious problems in determining income from property taxes on production plants in connection with the budget for the coming year. Here I can show that the department of Ot.prp. No 78 for 1999-2000, which came from the Government on 7 July of this year, states the following: ‘At this stage, the Ministry cannot reflect the fact that municipalities can obtain any clarification on the income from the property tax on the transfer facilities at the appropriate time for entry into the 2001 budgetary procedure. In view of this, the Ministry intends to table a royal resolution to postpone the implementation of Section 8 for transport facilities until the fiscal year 2002.» The income from property taxes on manufacturing plants is approx. 10 times the income from property taxes on transfer facilities. I can therefore not understand anything other than that, according to its own foundation, the department should have strong reasons to give itself a little more time with the implementation of Section 8 for production plants than is currently provided for here. It should be unnecessary to spend more time on seeing that there are strong reasons for postponing the implementation of the property tax clause 8, also for manufacturing plants, until 1 January 2002. And then there was another point. Point 6 of the setting applies to changes in the fleet tax scheme. In the budgetary agreement as a liability for the current year, i.e. for 2000, there was an agreement to introduce a tax liability for foreign exchange gains on reintroduction taxed companies as of the 2000 income year. This was followed up in the Innst. O. No 12 for 1999-2000. The Financial Committee stressed during the examination of the cases that transitional rules should be laid down for exchange rate fluctuations in currencies recovered or on the spot before 1 January 2000. It further clarified that the provisions of the transitional arrangements are to ensure that companies subject to company taxation are ‘fully equalised to ordinary taxed companies in the taxation of realised and unrealised currency items’, and that the transitional rules aim to ensure that foreign exchange gains are taxed only once and that losses in foreign exchange positions can be deducted only once. It is unfortunate that the transitional rules for the currency areas adopted in the context of the State budget for 2000 have not yet been laid down. Of course, it is important for the industry to know what to do in connection with the coming financial statements. I hope, therefore, that during this debate, the Council of State will be able to give a concrete indication of how far work on these transitional rules has come and what time they will lead. It is simply an undeniable fact that the time for the end of the year, and therefore also for the conclusion of the account, is approaching with rapid steps. So I'll finally bring up proposal No. 3, to which the Christian People's Party is a co-sponsor. The proposal shall now be in improved and, hopefully, formally correct form.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e611	The representative has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change. The President will propose that the replacement of the lines be limited to three lines. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e618	I want to ask the Christian People's Party spokesman on this matter about the reason for the postponement. I understand that the main reason is now that differences in fares have arisen. It could be due to two things: one is that there are unintended differences because there are different valuers and different offices that have made the fare. The second reason is that it has to be like this. The facilities are not as much worth, and they are not the same tax base as before. Therefore, previous figures may not necessarily be used as anchor for new numbers. So my question is really: what is the reason why the Christian People's Party and the central parties, otherwise, do not agree with the recommendation made by the Right and the majority in the vote, namely to point out that if these matters are transferred – at least the majority of them – to the Central Tax Office, there will be more uniform tariffs. It wasn't the Christian People's Party in the last time either, but it's an opportunity to actually achieve more uniform tariffs, if that's what you're after.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e625	In my post, I have three reasons why we're going in for a postponement. First, it was the income gap, i.e. the municipal distribution, second, to put in place a right to complain and thirdly, the fact that the time to adopt the municipal budget for 2001 is very close. These reasons together make us feel more defensive about putting things off, giving ourselves a little more time and getting things in place. Then I got a specific question as to why we are not on the proposal that the representative Foss mentioned here. In my contribution, I tried to be reasonably clear that we would be waiting for the Minister of Finance to come back with a grip that could make the distribution between municipalities reasonable, and that it did not disappear for large revenues for individual municipalities. I called a grip that could be done. However, we are confident that the department will evaluate the various measures that can be taken here. The representative Foss mentions another measure, and there may be several measures. The main point for us is that the result is of such a nature that there are no permanent large income differences and income transfers for the municipalities involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e632	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e635	The matter we are dealing with today has a long history. During the treatment of Innst. O. No 62 for 1995-96, the Senterpartiet, SV and RV opposed introducing a new section 8 for the taxiing of power plants, and said in the setting at the time that they «from the need for transparent rules and stable tariff-based revenues will enter in order to maintain property taxes in their present form». The implementation of the decision and the work that has been done in retrospect show that it has been extremely difficult to meet the assumptions that, in fact, an aggregate increase made at the time that the maintenance of proceeds and distribution effects between municipalities should be within acceptable limits. Prerequisites of size at the Innst. O. No 85 for 1999-2000 was that the property tax income of municipalities for 2001 was to be secured with a proceeds of 915 million. kr, i.e. the maintenance of the income from the old system. The assumptions on which the Government based the income estimate proved to be unstoppable and resulted in significant loss of income for some municipalities. That was also the background that the government has now come back with a proposal to raise the minimum value for installations from NOK 0.50 per year. kWh to DKr 1.10 per year kWh. This is a good response to the overall income of the local government sector and now results in a proceeds of approximately 915 million. kr in sum for the municipalities. The proposal also limits to a certain extent the main redistribution effects between municipalities, but in my opinion there is still too much divergence between individual municipalities. There is evidence that some municipalities will suffer income losses as large as 40 p.m., and I have problems believing that it is within what the majority has also described as acceptable income changes for individual municipalities. I still believe that predictability of income is important for the municipalities. Following the submission of the State budget on 4 October, it was found that the total revenue would be much lower than envisaged. So after that, you've made adjustments to the minimum value and increased it. New income figures for the municipal sector are therefore adopted today, 14 December. Many municipalities suffer a significant loss of income, up to 40 pst. for a few, two weeks before the start of the new financial year, many municipalities have signalled a multimillion-dollar loss of income. This is therefore the basis for the adjustments to be made by municipalities, which will be revealed just two weeks before the new fiscal year. On this basis, the centre party believes that it is still necessary to put work into the distribution effects between the municipalities, and I have registered that the case rapporteur also shares the view that further work is necessary to look at the distribution effects. I have recorded that the representative Siv Jensen, who belongs to the majority of the committee in this round, also makes the same point; further work is needed in relation to the distribution effects. One way to do so is to set an upper limit and a lower limit on the permitted deviation in the income of each municipality from property taxes. And my challenge to the Minister of Finance will therefore be: Is the Minister of Finance concerned and will contribute to the reduction and minimisation of the discharges for individual municipalities? And will the Minister of Finance contribute to giving municipalities the opportunity to adapt to a new level of income? If these questions are answered yes, it is of course positive. But the consequence of this should be that implementation was postponed by one year, which I also think the case rapporteur made a strong contribution in defence of. The primary position of the centre party is that the old tariff system should be maintained. It did not receive a majority during the 1996 reading. We therefore support the Government's proposal to raise the minimum value from NOK 0.50 to NOK 1.10. We still believe that there is a need to ensure that the distribution effects between municipalities are better than what is taken into account in the proposition. I've sketched one way to do it. We have also pointed out the need for judicial remedies to be implemented upon entry into force. It is highly unreasonable that such a right of appeal should not also be granted from the date of application. Finally, we have also proposed a one-year suspension in order to give municipalities reasonable time to adapt to the changes in income.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e657	The President assumes that the representative should also include proposal No. 4, which is distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e661	It shall not be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e666	I will be very brief to comment on the decision Odelstinget is invited to do today on property taxes on power plants. Before the summer, the size provided for the implementation of the Property Tax Act § 8 for power plants to give municipalities total revenues for 2001 of approximately 915 million. kr. In early November submissions of the tax lists showed that property tax revenues amounted to approximately 730 million. kr, that is about 25 pst. lower than intended. The Government has therefore made proposals for amendments to the minimum value rules which ensure that the income of municipalities from property taxes on power plants is as foreseen. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's proposed amendments and that a majority believes that the new rules can be implemented as planned from 1 January 2001. The changes will, in my view, have an impact on the overall income expected from the municipalities, which the Stortinget has previously taken into account. However, as indicated in the Proposition, the Government will come back to Storting with an assessment of the proceeds of the new rules and any proposals for amendments during 2002. The majority of the Financial Committee expressed its opinion in Innst. O. No 85 for 1999-2000 concerns whether the distribution effects between municipalities were within an ‘acceptable framework’. The Ministry was asked to assess this when it gained some experience with the new rules. I note that several speakers in the debate, including the rapporteur on the matter, have been concerned about this issue. I would like to stress that I am prepared to follow the effects for individual municipalities very carefully. If the experience with the new rules reveals unreasonable results for individual municipalities, I will return to Stortinget with an assessment of it. The Government will come back with an assessment of the other issues on which the majority of the Committee is concerned. I have noticed the question of whether the municipalities should be allowed to complain on the basis of property taxes on power plants. Here I would like to mention, for the sake of order, that the municipalities already have access to ask for a change of equation without complaint. The Ministry will ensure that such requests for assessment of change are made to the greatest extent possible as a result of the tax rate. Regarding the question from the Right raised group on access rights, I refer to my answer of 6 December, which is included in the setting. The Government agrees with the majority of the Committee that the new rules should be applied in the same way as possible and in the need for specific competences of the equality authorities. Both are very important. The Government will therefore review the issue of the central equation of power generation undertakings and aim to return to such an assessment with the first. I have also noted the questions raised by the representative of Sørfonn regarding shipping taxes, and concerning the tax liability of foreign exchange gains on shipping companies. I can inform you that a draft regulation has been at the hearing and that the Ministry intends to fix it before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e685	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e688	On behalf of the municipalities who, when applying § 8 from 1 January, experience what they will define as untimely deviations, I will ask the Minister of Finance for his definition of each limit for him to come back to Stortinget with proposals for changes. The Landssaman conclusion of Vasskraftkommunar has been in the Financial Committee. They have presented some numbers, they were just enough pre-estimates to help you figure out how to turn this off. There are clear numbers. Hydrology service e.g. calculates for the municipality of Tin a loss of tax revenue of 23 p.m., 8.3 million. kr, for Aurland 26 pst., SEK 7.2 million. kr, for Luster 38 pst., SEK 13 million. kr, and for Kvinesdal 61 pst, 9,5 million. kr. I'm going to add that for Hjelmeland, as I know very well myself, the estimate is 59 pst, 7.7 million. kr. They've got a final set of equations, and they're going to experience a drop-out of 5.3 million. kr. It's a very large amount for a municipality that has a total gross expenditure of NOK 133 million. For the Central Party, this case seems to be an example of the distance between the words spoken here relative to the macro amount, and how each municipality experiences it. Where is the Minister of Finance really going to make improvements in addition to keeping these municipalities in beautiful words?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e697	Now I noticed with considerable interest that there is also a grip on the Central Party that the Government has proposed, and to which a unanimous increase today joins, and which is also underlined by the speakers of the Central Party in the debate as a sensible grip. So it's like there's full connection in the Biggest about the way to do it. The only thing the Storting disagrees about is the time of launch. Then it is that when a new reform is implemented, there will be a slightly different outcome for different municipalities. Let me say so that there are probably also some municipalities that come out somewhat better than what the representative described in his reply. I do not want to go into an assessment of the limits of changes. What I made clear in my post is that I want to follow developments and make an assessment of the outcomes that may be for individual municipalities, and then assess whether there is a need to come back to Stortinget with such an assessment. But now, I think, first of all, we will see that – if there is a majority in Stortinget today – we will have an implementation from 1 January, and that there is already a unanimous increase in the number of people who believe that the Government's proposal to deal with this issue makes sense. So I think it makes sense to get an overview of the outcomes for individual municipalities before we draw conclusions on how any further handling should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e708	I am surprised that the Minister of Finance has so unilaterally stressed that he is now getting a whole big deal to implement from 1 January. Of course he doesn't. It is also that for the Center Party it was clearly underlined today by Odd Roger Enoxsen that we have a different primary position, but we recognize that it does not have connection in the Stortinget. We had a different point of view in 1996, we still have it. It has also been claimed by former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad that he did not find any better arrangement than the one in force today. Real estate tax is a 100 pst. municipal taxes. That is why I was so surprised that the Minister of Finance could not commit himself even more so that the distribution would be as fair as possible in relation to today's system. He had the opportunity to base more manual calculations. He himself says in his own proposition that only in January is the number ready for the municipalities. He had the ability to maintain greater security for the municipalities. Of course, it is fun for the municipalities that are now experiencing more money. Of course, both the Central Party and the other party here will not all municipalities, but what is a major problem in this matter is that there are some municipalities that lose large income from one year to the next with a decision today, with the consequences it gets. My last question will then be one to which the Minister of Finance did not answer Odd Roger Enoxen: Will he look at an upper and lower limit in relation to loss of income?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e717	I have not said that a unanimous increase will come to fruition from 1 January, as this is certainly not the basis for saying. What I have stressed, on the other hand, is that there is a unanimous growth in the approach proposed by the Government to meet the challenge facing an overall increase. And so that's what the representative said, that a majority in Odelstinget and Lagtinget have adopted a power tax reform. The Bondevik government has not proposed any changes to that reform. The government of Stoltenberg proposed a significant increase in municipal tax revenue, and the government of Stoltenberg now proposed a further increase in autumn to reach the income estimate foreseen by the Storting. I therefore note that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget and Stortingen bodies on the reform. I note that the Bondevik government did not propose any other arrangements for the reform. I note that the time when the reform is now taking place is the time when the Bondevik Government laid down as the date of implementation of the reform. And I note that it is a unanimous increase that agrees with the content of the reform. Then I find out that there are some parties that believe that, despite this consensus, you should still take some more time. I respect that. But I note that no proposals have been made for better ways to meet this challenge. And so when you implement a new reform based on the economic results of the enterprises that are to be taxed, it can give some results. My starting point has been that I want to follow these results, I want to go carefully into and evaluate the results also for individual municipalities, and then I want to make a summary and assess whether there is a basis to provide the Storting with an assessment of such results. Let me ask for time to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e726	Some of these results are already known. For some municipalities it is already known before implementation that a significant loss of income will occur. It also means that there are other municipalities that will receive a significant increase in income. So we're talking about major redistribution effects between individual municipalities, which a unanimous growth has also said to be within acceptable frameworks – without having made an in-depth definition of what the acceptable frameworks should be. However, the rapporteur has actually pointed out today that it is necessary to look closely at the distribution effects. Other members of the majority have also said that it is necessary to look closely at the distribution effects. I suppose the Minister of Finance intends to follow it up and not just wait and see, especially given that much of these redistribution effects are already known. But it's a completely different theme I want to address in this context. It has been pointed out from an overall increase, both by the majority and by the minority, that it is necessary to look at the remedies available, without taking an active decision to introduce a right of appeal from the time of application. This is something the government has signaled that you want to come back to. The Minister of Finance wrote in a letter to the LVK on 1 December that "there are likely to be some errors in any introduction of new rules." The Minister of Finance hereby confirms that there are likely to be both taxing errors and other errors that will affect individual municipalities. On that basis and on the basis that a unanimous increase says that it is necessary to assess both the right of access and the right to apply to the tax base, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: does the Minister of Finance intend to follow it up in such a way that it can be implemented from the time of implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e735	The representative asked if I would follow the distribution effects. I believe I have made that quite clear, also with the support of the rapporteur in his speech. Such a follow-up I can assure you that I will take this into account. Then the representative shows that there may be taxing errors. Yes, it can. It's also among the things we have to go through carefully before we draw conclusions about how the outcomes are going to be, even for individual municipalities. The provisional calculations available may be based on a false basis that we may then need to clarify. So it is that I already in my main post clarified that we should not just consider the issue of complaint, but that such an opening to assess changes is already there today. So it is that in my post I made it clear that I have registered that the committee has been concerned about the issue of municipalities to be allowed to complain on the basis of property taxes on power plants. There I find reason to mention that the municipalities already have access to ask for a change of the equation without complaining. The Ministry will ensure that such requests for assessment of change are taken as far as possible into account in the tax rate. This is also the result of the preparatory work on previous legislative changes, and it is important that we give the necessary signals to the establishment that it should of course be followed up. I also said in my post that when it comes to the question of access rights, I refer to my answer of 6 December to questions from the Right biggest group, which is included in the setting. It clarifies the question of transparency. When it comes to the question of assessing changes, I want to make the view known to the tax rate in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e748	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 257]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e758	Odelstingen then went to voting in the cases 1-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1161	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1170	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1176	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1308	The President will draw attention to a correction in the last paragraph of Section 5-10a. the text shall be replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry shall prescribe benefits under this paragraph.’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1321	The President will then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advancement Party and Right to § 19-6. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the third paragraph of Section 19-6 is replaced by the following:The retirement pension shall not be reduced if the pensionable annual income is less than twice the basic amount. The pension without spouse allowance and child allowance is reduced by 40 per cent of income over twice the basic amount.§ 19-6, fourth paragraph, first sentence, is replaced by the following:In the case of a pensioner who until the age of 67 had contracted a state supplement pension, the pension without spouse supplement and child supplement shall be reduced by 50 per cent of income over twice the basic amount.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1381	The President will then vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 Paragraphs 25-14 of this Act are replaced by the following:Justices under this Act may be amended or repealed by subsequent law. Rights vested may not be restricted or revoked.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1492	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1501	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1523	C will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1676	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e1685	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2131	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2140	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2211	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2220	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2226	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Børge Brende, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that the discrimination resulting from the current occupational pension system between AFP pensioners and other early retirementers ceases.’; The proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for occupational retirement provision for lifelong payment.’ Both proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2985	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e2994	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3004	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3010	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 and 2, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing proposal No. 3, from Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left The proposal of the Christian People's Party. The centre and left parts read: ‘The decision requests the Government to postpone the entry into force of the Property Tax Act § 8 until 1 January 2002.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3068	Here the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3218	We shall then vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:§ 8-12 repealedCurrent sections 8-13 to 8-20 become sections 8-12 to 8-19.» [[tax laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3248	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘IV shall be replaced by the following:The changes under I shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2000 year of income.The changes under II and III shall enter into force immediately with effect from the 2001 year of income. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3291	The Progress Party and the Right have notified here that they support the Committee's decision subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3301	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3310	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14-lower.ana.ud1804e3319	There is no record.
