ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e71	Two permit applications are available: from the Norwegian Group of the Interparliamentary Union to the 103rd. Interparliamentary Conference in Amman, signed by the Head of Delegation, Depositary Representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt. The application concerns the period from 2 May to 4 May of the representatives of Jon Olav Alstad, Karin Andersen, Grethe G. Fossum, Ola D. Glötvold, Sverre J. Hoddevik, Jan Simonsen, Kari Økland and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt from the representative of Einar Steensnees on sickness leave in the period from 26 April and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Hedmark County: Helge Bjørnsen, Anne Christel Johnsgaard and Ida Marie Løvlien For the Nordic region: Oddbjørn Hanssen For the Rogaland County: Olaf Gedrem, Toril Haaland Horpestad and Helga Rullestad For the counties of Sogn and Fjordane: Mathias Råheim For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bernt Hågensen 3rd@item: inlistbox Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e153	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e156	On behalf of Kjellaug Nakkim and myself, I would like to make a proposal to exempt cable cranes from investment fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e161	The representative of Vidar Kleppe will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e164	On behalf of the representatives of Jørn L. Stag, Per Ove Wideth, Terje Knudsen, Harald T. Nesvik, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ask the Stortinget to set up a selection to simplify and streamline coastal management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e169	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e172	On behalf of John I. Alvheim and myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the regulations of the people's rights on compensation for air ambulance transport costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e177	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will inform that the referrals to Case No. 1, 2 and 3 have not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with these matters now. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e193	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2845]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e207	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2845]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e221	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2845]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e235	There are no April jokes about this, although the Riksrevision has given the Ministry of Fisheries a deadline of 1 April 2000 to provide an explanation of the Coastal Authority’s interim accounts of well 10,5 million. kr in new differences. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has chosen to remove this matter from Document No. 1 for 1999-2000 because of the lack of reconciliation and documentation in the accounts of the Coastal Administration for 1998, in the light of the information provided to the Committee by letter of 19 January 2000, including: points to the listings relating to the accounts of the Coastal Office for 1998 which require a reassessment of the accounts in the light of the new information submitted. The strong criticism of the National Audit Office is serious. Its name is, among other things, that the accounts of the Coastal Plant for 1998 have not been drawn up in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the Financial Regulation, and that the accounts are accompanied by significant errors and deficiencies. For this reason, the Riksrevision cannot grant its approval. More clearly, the criticism cannot be! The Committee considers this to be very serious, also taking into account the fact that the 1994 accounts revealed a number of aspects relating to formal errors and errors, extensive redeployments at the end of the year, the lack of reconciliation and follow-up of balance sheets, the lack of certification and instructions for annexes, and the failure of procedures for the submission and filing of annexes. In sum, this means that the accounting procedures are very deficient, which is something that an overall committee is very serious about. It is also serious that the Ministry of Fisheries has not carried out sufficient investigations before making recommendations that the Riksrevisions were corrected. An overall committee shall require the Ministry of Fisheries to ensure, as soon as possible, that the accounts of the Coastal Office are kept in a satisfactory manner in accordance with the request of the National Audit Office. I refer to the suspension and propose, in accordance with it, that the entries for the 1998 State Accounts of the Ministry of Fisheries on the non-conformities and documentation contained in the accounts of the Coastal Authority for 1998 be decidated in accordance with the National Audit Office's proposal for the annotation "Can pass".
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e256	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2845]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e270	This case is a follow-up to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, Towards richer targets, where the Stortingen went in to set up a national development centre. The majority of the population, which consisted of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, went in to give us such a center. The proposition we are dealing with today is entirely in line with the Stortingen position, so we have little to say about the proposal that lies here. We're going to join it. For the Workers' Party, it is important that all children have equal opportunities to develop according to their own abilities, level of development and needs. The training shall be based on the individual student. It is intended to nourish the innate curiosity and learning ability with which we are born. It's a big task, it's difficult, but it's also inspiring. We have a decade of school reforms behind us, and we have now reached the point where most will be educated for 13 years – from primary school and through secondary education. In order to achieve the goal of a school adapted to the individual student’s abilities and requirements, staff at each school must be stimulated and inspired to continue to develop the school. It will require creativity, and not least cooperation and enthusiasm from those who will carry out the work. Unlike the Right and Advance Party, the Labour Party, the Centre Parties and the SV do not want to build independent school supervision at national level. Many also call it a school police force to assess schools, among other things. after centrally administered standard tests. We think it's suspicious to spend a lot of time and attention on constructing a system of control as its main basis. The objective of assessment must be learning and improvement. Therefore, assessment should not be an end in itself. The debate on assessment must not overshadow the challenge of giving children and young people knowledge, skills, attitudes, faith in themselves and optimism to help make a good life for themselves and others. The debate on evaluation must not ignore the way schools are to be further developed from the inside. The Labour Party wants more freedom for each school, including: by providing them with resources and technical assistance for development work. It will be an important task for the new development centre. External supervisors must be able to be involved at school's request, to discuss teaching practices and to guide the school-based assessment. Financial resources are not least important, and the Workers' Party proposed, in the context of the teacher recruitment message, that a development pot be set for each school, so that we could also obtain financial resources for this work. This week, the Committee visited a primary school in Oslo where there had been great problems with violence, fighting and fighting. This school received extra funding to launch a project to improve the conditions at the school – and there was not so much extra funding they received. But with the help of an enthusiastic principal, skilled teachers, and the resources they were given, they have now managed to create a school where there is well-being and student participation, where violence is absent, how fighting has fallen to a normal level, and it has become a good school where both parents and students contribute. So it's possible to develop the schools if they get help and resources for it. We want our schools to be of high quality. Many have, but many also need help to improve quality. We believe that the most important element of an assessment strategy — in an assessment system — must be a school- and enterprise-based assessment. Through a national development centre, resources and competences in relation to development tasks will be brought together and coordinated better than today. It will provide a more comprehensive overview and overall competence in interrelated areas and provide key development and information tasks. It is the educational and professional development measures that must be the central tasks of the Centre. It is particularly important to take care of and stimulate municipalities, county councils and schools to launch local development projects. An important task for the Centre will also be to cooperate with the research communities and be a link between these environments and the individual school or municipality. The Centre shall be a coordinating stage in the development of primary and secondary education and shall be the central provider of premiscuous education in the development of curricula and in the development of continuing education. The Centre, in cooperation with the Ministry and the Education Office of the State, shall contribute to the development of schools and training at all levels. We are looking forward to this center being created, and I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e298	I noticed that the representative Dørum concluded that she wanted a high-quality school. But then we're back to what we've previously disagreed about: she didn't say anything about what concrete is quality, and what she means by high quality. This again is basically just words. The party sees the need for development of Norwegian school in general, and the state school in particular. The question then becomes what is the most important contribution to improving quality from an international perspective. Unlike the majority, the Progress Party sees the content and quality of teaching as crucial. The aim of education must be that the individual who is taught is left with a professional benefit. A state school that is unilaterally concerned with purely organisational framework measures quickly loses focus from what is the cornerstone of the introduction of educational obligations for all children. The training obligation is based on the objective of developing professional knowledge and social competence. In this context, one cannot assess the individual student’s benefits by adding up the number of hours and support instruction. One has to assess results. By focusing on the professional benefits of the training for students, it is possible to develop the training from a knowledge-based knowledge point of view. An alleged assessment and development without this necessary professional knowledge can never be more than visual and appropriate guessing. The Progress Party is convinced that knowledge is an advantage for all evaluation and development. The fact that the foremost dissemination of knowledge is of a different opinion is worrying. Even if we were to get a pass to build on knowledge, there's another condition that needs to be in place to achieve a real and correct result. Any evaluation must be carried out by an unwarranted body in order to have credibility. In all areas of society where high-seat quality is high, it is assumed that one does not apply the principle of the goat and oatmeal. This will be of great importance, especially if a person wants credibility outside of himself. One may gain credibility with regard to the outcome of the very close colleague who has made the assessments, but one may also have internal problems. Much can, of course, be solved by a non-exhaustive template on the basis of which the assessment is based. The question is, of course, what will be the basis for a future development – and we all want development. Here, a national ‘vision centre’ can probably help with the lack of knowledge that is not wanted today. It is also of interest when the center provides an unwarranted evaluation of the suggestions for development that they themselves have been preaching. The Party considers that the necessary quality development in the State School should have a real opportunity, the basis must be that an independent school supervision is based on qualitative objectives. At the same time, it is necessary to establish an independent complaint body for all parties involved in the training, both for users and employees. It is important that one side-by-side introduces a minimum level of legal certainty, including in the state school. This is today a haven of very many groups. By introducing legal certainty based on knowledge and knowledge, one could have a predictable and knowledge-based state school, which unfortunately is a non-existent situation for all stakeholders today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e311	The establishment of the National Centre for Learning and Development, the Learning Centre, shall contribute to a more comprehensive perspective on learning, experimentation and development, research and evaluation. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that there is a majority to set up such a centre in line with the proposal of the central government and councillor Lilletun. This means that the centre will be operational from 1 August this year. Such a centre may contribute to a more holistic development perspective, including: learning, evaluation and learning material. We need that. In the Christian People's Party, we see school development as a central area to get more focus on quality and on the work of the individual classroom. It does not help with major school reforms if we do not focus on school content and changes in the everyday life of the school, in the individual classrooms. I would therefore challenge the new Minister of Education to keep focus on the classroom and the content of the school. Such a focus will increase the attention to quality and how to get a better school. On this occasion, the new Council of State needs to clarify its position for the future school. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there is a need to continue work on improving the quality of Norwegian school. I have also noticed that the Council of State believes the same thing. In particular, the challenges in high school appear to be high and urgent. If we are to succeed in getting better quality, we are faced with three main challenges that I hope the Council of State will confirm that he will intervene. First of all, we need to open up to the professional pedagogue. The teacher is the key to getting a better school. The teacher must have the freedom to evaluate and make choices in terms of selection of substances, working methods and progress in learning. If we are to receive customized training for each individual student, the teacher must use his or her knowledge of the student and have the freedom to create a learning programme for the individual. This is about giving teachers greater self-confidence, and we can show that by giving them greater responsibility. But it also requires a conscious and quality-oriented school management. The principals must be educators rather than administrators. We also need to focus on the new teaching role where the teacher is a supervisor and an inspiration in a working community with the students. If we are to be able to return to the professional teacher, the efforts in continuing training for teachers must be continued. Studies show that most teachers have good computer equipment and access to the Internet, but few know how to use the Internet in education. We therefore need more guidance on the use of the Internet as a educational tool. This is one example of the continuing training needs in school. The size of the population has increased the appropriations for continuing training for teachers this year, and has made use of funds for testing hospitation schemes and the use of new groups of professionals in school. I hope that the Council of State can confirm that this effort will continue, and not just become a bluff in the autumn of 2000. The second challenge is to open up to the active student. Students must become an active participant in the learning process and should be involved in the design of school work. In this way, the student is held responsible, and the school can play with the resources the student has. Such an active role helps to create greater motivation for schoolwork. Motivated students also contribute to creating a better school environment for students, teachers and others in the school community. If we're going to be able to create the active student, we have to keep focus on what's going on in the classroom. The third challenge is to stimulate individual schools to take advantage of the local space for action contained in the curriculum, the learning environment, laws and regulations. It requires political leadership in the department that will inspire and motivate efforts. Each school needs to clarify its educational platform, including the content of its learning work. The Christian People's Party will challenge the Council of State to encourage local attempts to get a better school, and to actively and deliberately use the experimental paragraph contained in the Training Act. I also assume that the Council of State will continue the financial resources allocated to the budget for such purposes. When I use this opportunity to challenge the new Minister of Education to focus on school content and facilitate school development, it's because I think a lot of school people want a more exciting everyday life, and they have a lot of ideas about how to get a better school. It's important that we politicians point out what we want with the future school, and then let the school's own people figure out how to get there. I think that must be a guide to the work of the Learning Center. And the Christian People's Party has the objectives clear: if we are to get a better school, we need to have a stronger focus on the student over the class – on people over systems, and we need new forms of organizing school learning. Therefore, we need trials that can give us practical experience. Here, the Learning Center also has an important task. They shall inspire development work, but also systematise experience and point to the need for changes in the school framework in order to get a better school. That's why we need to focus on what's going on in the classroom, in everyday life. This may also be part of the modernisation of public services, for school should help parents in the education of their children. I would ask the Council of State to clarify how he will deal with these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e330	On the right is the view we have had in this matter – we are moving towards the establishment of a national centre for learning and development. I don't want to extend that resistance any closer, but just refer to the reason we've given in the setting. When it comes to what was said by the representatives of Dørum and Lyngstad, there was a great deal to which I believe the whole of the Great Britain can join, and which in any case can be right without further ado, but I believe that many of these positive objectives can be achieved without the organizational change that has been proposed – and which is what we are debating today. I think we'll get a little bit clearer if we don't mix the functions that you want to merge into the new center. Here I am aware that we are disunity. Like Lyngstad, I want to use the opportunity to ask the Council of State two questions, which directly relate to the area we are discussing today. One thing goes on what is said in the proposition regarding the proposal to wind up the state approval of textbooks, namely that the Government will come back to the Storting with this case. I want to ask the Council of State: When will we get a case about this to Stortinget? There's something we should now take a step forward. The second is a problem which has been raised several times and which has not been solved, i.e. audiobooks and bitmaps should be kept at the same time as other learning aids. Years after years, it has been shown that this is not the case. I have previously asked written questions to the new Council of State about this without getting any clarifying answers. But I would like to know if the Council of State can now guarantee that these aids, audiobooks and bitmaps will lie at the beginning of the 2000-2001 school year in the extent that the Grand Duchy has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e341	It is satisfactory that the Storting joins the previous government's proposal to set up the National Centre for Learning and Development, abbreviated to the Learning Centre. The proposal came, as I said earlier, in St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, and did not gain the surprising support of a majority, consisting of the centre parties and the Workers' Party. The main objective is to stimulate school development and to provide support for better learning. It's interesting to see what the head of the center, Jostein Osnes, says about this to Norsk Skoleblad no. 11 in year: ‘If the centre does not lead to teachers doing a better job and students getting a better school offer, it does not have the right to life.’ It's a healthy setting. Furthermore, Osnes says that the Learning Centre should meet politicians’ expectations that we should have a ‘locomotive for school development on rails’. The central government paid particular attention to the fact that reforms at school have nothing to do with changing the structure. It's the content that counts, that is, the inner life of the learning situation at all levels of the training chain. The learning centre shall contribute to a more comprehensive development perspective on learning, assessment and learning materials. It's important that these elements are seen more in context than they are up to now. It is the curriculum that should govern the learning process; we haven't come far enough yet. Educational materials, equipment and textbooks shall be an instrument of learning support. The learning centre shall not reinvent the powder. It will continue the work that has been done so far in the National Educational Centre and the Secretariat of the Exam, as well as stimulating development work in general. As a member of the Higher Education Council, it is tempting to use the old term ‘There is no shame in turning’, because what is happening is well under way when the Ministry of Church, Education and Research now receives a development centre outside the ministry, but at the same time subject to the same department. While former government councillor Gudmund Hernes wanted to gather all the power in the department by laying down both the Higher Education Council and the Primary School Council, Lilletun chose as Minister of Education to move parts of the department into a development centre, to be run by a separate government. The centre party is satisfied with the dissemination of power and competence. It is important to draw resources from different environments across the country. We must not, however, become entangled in organization. The most important is the tasks of each body. It is, after all, the teachers and the principals who are the crumbs in the school development processes. The learning centre shall be involved and stimulated for such processes. Not least the schools themselves shall conduct their own evaluation. This means that the school opens up more to the outside world, mainly in the local environment, with parents having to be drawn more strongly. Vocational groups other than educators must also be able to participate in the learning situation. The example from the Gran School in Oslo, which we visited this week, shows how these can contribute constructively, as the case-rapporteur was also involved in his statement. There has been a lot of attention on school issues lately, where the description of poverty has dominated. A visit to Hå Municipality the other day was a vitamin injection for a school politician. I recommend more people to go there and see how teachers, students and school managers have managed to create a school where development and renewal are the driving force in daily training, and where the student really is in the center. Of course, the headmaster and the municipality have provided the necessary framework conditions and incentives for this to happen. Perhaps I might be so bold to recommend the new Council of State and the Board of the Learning Centre a visit to Hah. In order not to be accused of advertising the Rogaland municipality of Hå, I can add that of course I know many municipalities and county councils that are very advanced in school development work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e364	With this setting we follow up one of the decisions we made in connection with the Innst. S. No 214 for 1998-1999 — a national assessment system. I can't humiliate myself, but I have to refer to Innst. S. No 186 for 1990-91, where SV proposed a similar centre to what we are now creating. At the time this only got SV's votes, but we're used to it taking ten years from we propose a good measure until we get a majority for it in Stortinget. So we're very happy that we get it today, i.e. We actually got a majority in favour of that in connection with the treatment of Innst. S. No 214. This is an important thing, because with this we look away from the structural conditions and from the contents of the school, both in primary and secondary schools. Experience has shown that structural changes are easier to implement than changes in content. It's not enough to adopt new curricula and then assume that the rest goes by itself. We know a good deal about this primarily in the light of the follow-up research carried out in connection with reform 94. We know that in high school it is late to get a democratization of the work in the classroom and in the workshop. Students are not involved in the planning, implementation and evaluation of teaching activities. The learning work continues to be far too teacher-centred. It is late to bring in new forms of work, such as interdisciplinary project work. The school practices too much forms of work left by the labour force. New forms of work to stimulate creativity and curiosity are being used too little. The organisation of the school day and the school year follows old patterns both in terms of vocational and in terms of hours. We know a lot about this in high school, and there's reason to believe that the situation in primary school, at least for high school, is the same. It's these things that this new learning center, and those who are employed there, are going to get involved and be involved in development. The changes must come from below if they are to root out and teachers are to have a property relationship with the new one. Individual schools are required to develop new forms of work and organisation through testing and failure. The new centre should stimulate and help develop new ideas. There shall be a link between good development projects and schools that need inspiration to test new learning models. The establishment also helps to extract parts of the ministry's work, and in this way we will put the development work in focus. One can no longer cover himself up for heavy administrative tasks and leave the development tasks behind. It is therefore particularly important to emphasise once again what the Committee said in the Innst. S. No 214 for 1998-99, that the Learning Centre should clean up development tasks and that administrative tasks should be reduced to a minimum. We know from experience that bodies entrusted with development tasks and management tasks are developing easily to become purely administrative bodies. It is easier to deal with and intervene than in the less concrete development projects. But here we set up a centre where we have stressed that it is the development tasks that are to be taken into account; here one should not be in charge of administrative tasks – at least they should be done to a minimum. In the Declaration of Accession, the Prime Minister made this a key point with a simpler and more efficient public sector and made it clear that this is an important issue for the new government. We in SV agree with this, and we are willing to look at the public sector for simplification and renewal. What we're doing now is we're creating a new body. However, let me clarify, not to be misunderstood, that there are no new posts. There is coordination between two State agencies, the Secretariat of the Examination and the National Educational Centre and parts of the Ministry. However, we should use this reorganisation to see if things can be done differently in the overall government that is responsible for different levels of school development. In my opinion, there are many reasons to assess the role of state education directors and their responsibilities in relation to school development. There is reason to discuss what tasks they should have, what responsibility they should have, and how they should deal with this new centre that we are now establishing – who should be directly responsible in relation to the municipalities and county municipalities. I hope the Council of State goes in and looks at this relationship, looks at the different levels and who's going to do what, and looks at whether we can streamline and rationalize part of this. I believe that there is a potential both to achieve a more efficient business, and also to strengthen the actual development of the school. Education directors have both supervisory and development responsibilities towards municipalities. Without providing the final answers today, there are many reasons to assess the positions and tasks that this section should have in future school development. It's important that we get the center in place, and everything indicates that we're getting this in place now for the autumn, so it can be up there. I think I'm absolutely sure it has important and exciting problems in front of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e385	The reasons for the Centre and what it is essentially supposed to do are clearly presented by the majority of whom the Left is part. I want to take the opportunity to highlight two points of view. I have for a long time been concerned about – and it has also been my party – how the ordinary teacher should be able to stand upright in a teaching situation, whether it is in a classroom or it is in a working group. I think it is very important to clear up and revisit that teaching role, and I think it is absolutely essential for this role to succeed, for the evaluation work to find the balance between the responsibilities of the home, the responsibilities of other professional groups to be involved in the school, and the responsibilities of the teacher. If the average, normal, ordinary teacher is not able to stand upright, there will be a shocking contrast between the expectations and pedagogical reforms formulated by pedagogical theorists and by mainstream politicians, and the situation of the teacher. This is based on long-term conversations with such teachers and visits to schools. And the background to emphasize it as strongly as I do is that our ideals, as laid down in many comprehensive and ambitious Norwegian school reforms, must hold, they must also find that interface in the meeting with the teaching situation of the ordinary teacher, so that the person is running. I am convinced that a centre like this will contribute to it. The second perspective is that I want to take the word as a district representative for Oslo – I'm saying it a little funny. It's my claim that the Oslo school in some way may have a greater inner variation than the schools in all of Norway have. Oslo School has a special challenge because it is more than anywhere else in Norway to promote a teaching situation where there is also a very, very large element of people with a foreign language background. The statistical basis for primary Oslo School is approaching 30 pst. It goes without saying that the requirements of the teaching situation are very special, and I want to take the opportunity to give credit to the countless teachers who are in that position. But at the same time, I would like to stress that it is now time to put this educational situation even more strongly on the agenda than we have done now. I have been on an inspection with the Committee, among others. at the Gran School in Groruddalen – which I believe the representative Anneliese Dørum referred to – which can in many ways be a good example of how ordinary teachers are upright, where other adults are drawn into the school situation, where other professional groups are used, and where local school places, as far as I can judge it, are created a learning climate that must be an exciting challenge for everyone who is concerned about what I am talking about. But I would specifically ask the Council of State to have vigilance for this field, because it is my claim that the success of Norwegian integration policy – what to say – in addition to what we have achieved now depends entirely on what is happening in the classroom. After having had some other roles in my life, I would say that if there weren't so many good, ordinary, normal teachers, the crime statistics would look worse. But to make sure that it's still going to be like this, I think these teachers, the other adults they're working with, the kids they're having a relationship with, and the parents in Oslo school, as scattered and as complex as the school is, need more attention. The Oslo school has also contributed to Norwegian school. There have been excellent educators who have done it in the course of history. When we were on tour at Sagene School, we could see pictures of Anna Sethne on the wall – one of the really big pioneers of Norwegian pedagogy. I think it is absolutely essential that when we are going to discuss cross-border schools in Volda, which is a completely legitimate topic of discussion in Stortinget, it is time that I, as a ‘district representative’, made a strong contribution to the Oslo School coming on the national agenda. And I want to challenge my committee colleagues and the Stortinge to contribute to it, because I think that not only the fate of the children who go here, but also the success of Norwegian integration policy, is and falls with how we do it here. Here we have the key to creating many good situations in the meeting with multicultural Norway, but here we certainly also have the key to going straight west with most of what we do if we don't focus this more on. It's been said by most people who have worked with living conditions in the big city of Oslo and most of those who have worked with integration, that it's the school that's alpha and omega to succeed, so that's how I'll ask the council to take it with me. I'm convinced that these are issues that you'll understand, but I think it needs a considerable attention to make it more than understanding both of the big business representatives and government councils who are willing to understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e404	With some comments, the Church, Education and Research Committee has joined the establishment of the National Centre for Learning and Development, as shown by St. pp. No Thirty-eight. I am pleased with that, and I have also noticed that the Committee stresses that the development tasks need to be focused on the new centre, and that administrative tasks need to be limited to what is necessary to carry out development and experimentation. I agree with that. The national centre shall have as its task the management of developments, not the development of management. It shall be underlined, inter alia, by the majority of the Committee: that co-ordination of the development tasks currently being carried out in the Department, the Secretariat of the State Educational Office of Oslo and Akershus and the National Educational Centre will contribute to a more comprehensive development perspective on learning, assessment and learning material. It will provide opportunities to coordinate resources and to see more development and management tasks in context. From 1 August 2000, together with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the State Education Offices, the National Centre for Learning and Development will be the State Education Administration in the field of school and training. The Ministry shall have overall responsibility for the management of the Education Offices and the Learning Centre and coordination of the tasks to be carried out collectively by the State Education Administration. Through the establishment of the National Centre for Learning and Development, we will be able to launch a new give-up for forward-looking development work in school, so that we can meet new challenges as a result of the rapid changes we have in society. The Ministry shall identify key areas of research and centralised experimental and development work. The learning centre shall specify the tasks, initiate solutions and take action. The Centre shall assess, on an independent basis, the need for development measures undertaken within the scope of the mandate given by the Ministry. The Centre shall thus perform key development, evaluation and information tasks and shall have as its primary function the contribution of quality development in primary and secondary education. The National Training Offices shall assist the Learning Centre in the preparation of information measures and in stimulating the launch of innovative development work in the local government sector. It will therefore be an important cooperation task for the Educational Centre and Education Offices to support municipalities and county councils in their work on quality development at school and in secondary education. The learning centre shall have a special responsibility for gathering and making available ideas, experiences and evaluation and research results from this work. In view of the challenges facing us in the development of education and training in society, the Educational Centre will also have the task of providing information and documentation on the basis of national studies, research-based evaluations and other assessments of the state of the sector that can be used as a basis for planning and implementing education policy actions centrally and locally. I look forward to the work to be done by the National Centre for Learning and Development, and I am pleased with the opportunities for this work in the Committee's position. So I've had some challenges in this debate we've had. The representative Lyngstad gave me three main challenges. Now we have plenty of opportunity to come back to a lot of the discussion through the educational policy statement that I have announced that I will hold, and the debate that will come as a result of it, but I will give a few brief answers to the challenges. The representative Lyngstad focused on the professional pedagogue, a freer teaching role that makes it possible to realize what is now in the curriculum. I have no problem joining this, nor the emphasis that Lyngstad had on a conscious and quality-of-the-art principal, the role of continuing education and training and the role of ICT. To open up to the active student I also fully agree. Making students participative and having motivated students in school is, of course, a fundamental prerequisite for realising the visions we have for school. The fact that individual schools must have a greater freedom to exploit local space of action, encourage local trials and use the experimental paragraph actively is also in line with the school vision and the development vision I have. So here I feel that Lyngstad and I are completely in line with these main challenges. The representative, Mr Løvik, said that the approval system for textbooks, which was notified, would be suspended and asked when the matter would come. It will come in connection with the revision of the training law, as we have notified, and will probably be available at the beginning of May, so the Storting will be treated before going from one another to the summer. In the case of audiobooks and bitmaps, we will follow up on that work in close cooperation with the Ministry of Culture. I am also pleased that the Committee has joined in what we have said about it in the proposal of the Government. Marit Tingelstad stressed that the curriculum should be governing, and that you can see things more in a context when you get such a teacher. That's absolutely right. That's exactly what's meant, that you can connect all the different elements to a whole and do development work on a broad front. Now I did not sit on the Stortinget ten years ago, but when Rolf Rekovam says that SV has proposed this, it is certainly true. Then it must be a great satisfaction for the representative, Mr Reikvam, to get through the SV's proposal, even though it might not be Reikvam himself who put forward the proposal. I fully agree that it is the content that must now be in focus. We have had a period of very large quantitative reforms: we've got six-year-olds into school, we've got a statutory right to three-year-old secondary education, and we've also done things in higher education that have greatly expanded our capacity. We now need to focus on the content, on quality, on the fact that the students who go to school get the offer they deserve, that we get the facilities for each individual student, and that we use the resources in the best possible way. I am pleased that the representative Rikvam also joins in the work that we have announced, with an improvement in the efficiency of the public sector. I believe that flexibility, local adjustment and greater autonomy will be important factors, but also what the representative, Mr Rikham, stresses that we should look at levels in the school sector, coordination between countries, counties and municipalities, and see how we can make the best possible use of resources overall. The representative Dørum was concerned that the ordinary teacher should be able to stand upright, and that the teacher's role should be restored. It's no problem for me to stop me 100 pst. that teachers are the most important factor in getting to a good school. There are a lot of teachers who make an enormous effort, not only as educators, but also as fellow humans and social developers, and in some cases the teacher is perhaps the most important adult in some students' lives. It has to do with general social developments, which I'm sure the representative Dørum and I agree that we have to take a full responsibility to do something about. The size of the population deals with other important issues in this context, cohesion policy and other issues. But teachers need to be able to do the primary task in their teacher's role: to put curricula into practice and to give the students the education to which they are going. Now, the curriculum says something more than what falls under a more narrow concept of knowledge, which I may feel some people are concerned about. We're going to create a school that makes the students the cooperating human being and the social human being, and there's a lot of dimensions at school. But I'm open to the individual municipality, for example. can see their resources in the context. The resources used for other welfare services to be provided by young people should be seen in the context of the school situation, so that teachers can have better room to do their job. So the district representative with his sounding Oslo dialect says that now we have to take care of the big city's interests. I agree that the big cities have special challenges, and perhaps especially Oslo, with a very complex student mass socially, and with other cultural language compositions of the student mass that make the school here have extra tasks. But also in Oslo, a lot of teachers are doing a very, very good job in a desperate resource situation, and we're going to pay attention to it. I think the Learning Center can also help to develop new good ideas and coordinated ideas that can benefit others. But I also want to say that each municipality, including Oslo, has its own responsibility to ensure that the schools get the resources they need, among other things. making use of the income opportunities available to municipalities. There may also be a potential for that in Oslo, so that the school could have been added even more resources without having to go to the state to get those resources. But I am pleased with the debate and that the Committee is in line with the main features of what has been proposed, and I look forward to the debate we are going to have in the field of education policy presentation in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e444	‘The development and production of audiobooks will be able to be added to Tambartun’, the comments state. It's just the little piece of audiobooks I want to record. The main groups for the use of audiobooks are the blind and the faint, and they need one type of audiobooks. But the large group of dyslexia, specific reading difficulties – and you can also add the group of physical disabilities where many people experience the audio book more easily accessible than the paper version – they need a slightly different type of audiobooks. The most important thing is to make the subject available to all students, and there we are not today. For primary schools, all textbooks have to be read from the fall of 2000, but in high school there is still a lot left. There is no equivalent school as long as not everyone is allowed to acquire the necessary reading material. Some people don't get the important lessons that they expect from getting grades. They get hung up and get school problems. This often leads to anxiety and behavioural problems. They are easily perceived as problem children, and eventually perhaps also as a problem in society. We know that there may be drug problems, and some claim to be on the criminal track and go to prison. It's this whole thing and the context that I challenge the Council of State to look into. When we read the papers, it's like the students in the crowd have dyslexia. We read about some behavioral problems, and then a sentence says that they have difficulty reading and writing. We have to realize that there's a call for help. Audiobooks are one of the important things we have to prevent the side effects that we don't want. The audiobook is today’s – yes almost yesterday’s – technology, and it’s about to be taken over by other areas. I can mention CDs and software where you can read or talk to the computer and get it on the screen as a writing, and also get it read in writing; for example, Nordic Language Technology develops Voss software like this. I hope that it is possible to use that software for all disabled people first, to compensate for the poor reading skills and writing skills. So my conclusion is a challenge for the Council of State to contribute to the development of software that compensates for poor reading and writing skills, to the need for tools, to look at the obstacles that the copyright and postage laws pose, and to the easier handling of the audiobooks and the tools we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e463	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2845]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e477	This is a unanimous committee setting, but I want to add some comments. This applies only to a small group of young people. There are only 14 who enter the animal care training programme each year at the Norwegian veterinary high school. We have been made aware that those who are applying for this study need to implement a year of mandatory practice without being paid during the practical period, so that they depend on having their own financial resources to cope with this year. This has been taken into account by the Committee, because we believe that the economy should not be an obstacle to any young people who want to take education – they should be able to take the training they want, regardless of their economy. In two years' time, practice will be embedded in the study itself, but before that, those who want admission will have to take one year of mandatory practice. We have therefore wanted to find a transitional arrangement to ensure that those who are unable to find suitable pay practices are assured that they will receive income during this period. And I'm glad that the Council of State has responded positively to this proposal and is in favour of the Veterinary College being able to give advance commitments to some of the students, so that when they go into practice, they will be able to get loans in the Loan Fund. I would then encourage the Council of State to ensure that information on this will be provided as soon as possible, so that those who are about to enter the year of practice are aware that they can apply and be informed in advance whether they are busy or not, and thus be guaranteed student loans. I wish these young people good luck, and recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e490	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2846]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e506	I've been promoting an interpellation based on the closure of small schools that we've witnessed for many years, and that don't seem to end. Concerned parents complain, of course, they are afraid of their own children. The teacher team leader has addressed the problem in many different contexts. I deeply and sincerely disagree with her in a number of things, but when it comes to the closure of small schools in the districts, we are 100 pst. in agreement. This is not good. It's simply a self-responsive policy without the snub of future views of a continuing life in District Norway. For the sake of order, I would like to draw the honourable Assembly's attention to the fact that Norway is more than the big cities with an addition of Tromsø. The reason for the public outburst of child safety in the community is said to be poor local economy. Is the Norwegian community economy really so bad that children, sick and elderly people have to be sent to bed in the welfare community? Any municipality has sufficient resources to secure the core municipal areas properly if the political majority wants to do so. Or does the Council of State consider that the transfers to the schools in the municipalities do not ensure proper schooling? So what's the most important responsibility for the municipalities? "Elementary, dear Mr. Watson." It is to satisfy and satisfy the primary needs of the inhabitants by law, on the premises of the inhabitants. Schools are an important premise that younger people will live outside the agglomerations and the big cities. Without schools, there is little help with tool packages which merely decide that a geographical area cannot be considered to be anything other than a underdeveloped strip compared to the more urban areas. The so-called Agdermodel — the mathematical calculation basis that changes adults and children to numbers — suggests that large central school units are cheaper for municipalities to operate. Who will take responsibility for this spreadsheet whose life is lost? I do not choose to characterize the calculation model, which puts the economy above the individual's opportunities and well-being. On the other hand, the progress party, as I expect everyone to know, will have a school where the money will follow the individual student. This model means that parents have control over where the child is going to school and the professional qualities to be taken into account and where the framework in L97 provides a relevant minimum of basic knowledge. When Volda, the school community couple excellence in Norway, all of a sudden wants to lay down five schools – that's what they started with, at the moment there's only two, but more are in the cold – and bus the children along the maybe most razed roads in Norway, it must be a total short cut. The proposal for treatment in the School and Culture Committee on 16 February 2000 states: ‘In many of the combinations of changes in the school structure, the new school will be on racially dangerous sections.’ In a municipality of Volda's special geography, there are no alternative routes to these racially exposed schools. It probably doesn't matter to the individual if one is taken by a rock or earth race, or if there's a blizzard like this in your head. A man or a school bus gets quite out of control against these huge cancers. Is it a responsible school model to post children in state school for this every day, 200 school days a year? It's going to be 400 times past racially dangerous distances per. years per year. a child. We know from all of the statistics that the risk of accidents increases proportionally with the length of the road being operated. In addition, we know that on these roads there is a race every year, but we never know when the rage goes. I'm going to ask the Council of State how we're going to understand L97, which says that the school is going to be a cultural center in the community. What will be the environment for children living several miles away from this cultural center? And how will the Council of State ensure that these children can use this institution even outside school? Because is it true that these children should have the same opportunity as others for social interaction with peers? Furthermore, I will allow myself to quote a little clue to from the case proposal: ‘It also means that some schools are crowded. It's about Mork, Austefjord and Folkestad. The final school needs another classroom in two years’ time.’ In short, closure involves increased cloud expenditure, increased SFO expenditure due to poor communication for some, increased building costs over a relatively short period of time, while at the same time maintaining a sound qualitative level of education. The equivalent training provision for children in Volda can come very quickly in a critical situation. If the equivalent qualitative training provision is put under pressure by saving the estimated 225 frames per hour. week, the following shall be carried out: ‘It is thus saved about 80 hours per day. week more than what is needed to keep the frame number at the current level.» Think about it; don't increase the frame hour, but keep it up to the current level! It is concluded that the quality of non-decommissioned schools is improved, both because the frame hours in these schools are not reduced and because other undefined posts need to be significantly strengthened. Here again, I have a new question: how can something get better when it's not strengthened? You just keep the frame hours. How can an administration in a municipality claim that this is going to be better than what they have? It just doesn't matter. Everything is actually going to be at the old place, except that several students are going to be living together in the same number of hours. We're talking about a sum of the amazing size of approx. NOK 390,000 in the autumn of 2000. In addition, there is a saving on special education of 5 pst. This is not sustainable. It's so naive and so little thoughtful that it gets almost tense. It must be clear that the municipality of Volda, like all other municipalities, is free to use its free resources for schooling. They are not only free, but the funding of the State School is set up to finance a minimum solution through the framework grant, and the rest is to be financed by the free resources of municipalities. It is remarkable how difficult it is for some municipalities to realise that without residents the municipality does not have any justification and should probably be laid down as its own administrative body. If people don't want to live there, the younger ones, then the old ones die out, and eventually this will be a fact. It is important to point out that Volda Municipality and More and Romesdal are not special in this context, even though the municipality of Herey obviously wants to lay down an even larger number of schools. Hordaland is in the same situation, and Nord-Trøndelag is high on the list. Even in the state council's own home state, the South-Trøndelag, there are several municipalities that promote the desire for schooling. The built municipality, which we all know about, is one of them. It is with some wonder that politicians and administration in this vulnerable municipality want to break down the safe neighbourhood to centralize students to larger school units further away from home than strictly necessary. I'm not going to mention every single school or municipality; it'll take too much time. Instead, I would like to talk a little bit about the racial security plan for the highways in More and Romesdal. It shows that a lot has been done in relation to racial protection in this county, but there are a lot of things that are unrealized before children can be bused without purpose and purpose. Place names and names of unsecured areas will not help the representatives present very much, with the exception of those living in the county. Talking for these representatives is well to speak for deaf ears, since they have not taken the necessary initiative on an independent basis at a much earlier time than I have been able to do. This interpellation has been promoted in the past, for Lilletun. He did not have the opportunity to take it. I have promoted it again for the new Council of State, and I want to show that there have been two races on these roads since I promoted the interpelation. The last one was March 30. I hope that someone can do something about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e555	Decisions about school leaving have a major impact on parents and pupils and the community as a whole. It is therefore important that the municipality ensure that the cases are as well investigated as possible before a decision is taken. Among other things, it is important that the municipality investigates the relationship with the school kiss. In a school closure case, the municipality shall have a reasonable knowledge of the views of those affected by the closure. In this context, it would be natural for the school cooperation committee to be heard. By submitting the cases to the cooperation committee at the schools concerned, the implicated parties also get knowledge and notice that the school can be closed, and they can get their views on the matter before the decision is taken. The participation of parents and students in this process will also facilitate the acceptance of school-leaving decisions. Under Section 11-1 of the Training Act, at each primary school there shall be a cooperation committee where parents are also represented. The Cooperation Committee has the right to comment on all matters relating to school. I will also refer to the second sentence of Section 8-1 of the first paragraph of the Training Act: ‘The Community may lay down rules on which different schools in the municipality are based.’ In the suspension of the Training Act, the Church, Education and Research Committee, inter alia: the following: ‘The Committee refers to the fact that regulation of circuit boundaries is determined by the municipality by regulation, cf. Section 8-1. Questions about school structure and possible school closures affect parents and the community. The Committee considers it important to give parents the opportunity to comment on these issues before decisions are taken. In this context, the Committee would point out that, in its comment on the second sentence of Section 8-1 of the first paragraph, the Ministry argues that Section 37 of the Administrative Act requires, among other things, the Board of Parents or the Committee of Cooperation of the individual schools to be consulted prior to the adoption by the municipality of the regulation.» The Ombudsman has assessed several issues of school dropout and has clarified the need to follow the rules of procedure in such cases. He has also given the Stortinget a separate notice of that, stating the importance of the decision being directly applicable, being given the opportunity to comment. I refer in this connection to Innst. S. No 90 for 1998-99, Configuration by the Control and Constitutional Committee of the Special Communication on the Civil Ombudsman's examination of four cases of school closure. [[Ombudsman of the Administration of the Grand Duchy]] In its opinion, the majority of the Committee stressed that all parties to a case had the right to be heard before a final decision was taken. The majority pointed further to the function of the Cooperation Committee in relation to the right of expression, but it could not be seen that the municipality was obliged to put questions of school leaving before the Cooperation Committee in advance of the treatment of these cases by the elected bodies. It was stressed that when the municipality set up cooperation committees to deal with such issues, it was very bad administrative practice, in the majority's view, not to hear these bodies. The majority also underlined that the municipality should have the greatest possible freedom to organise its activities in accordance with local conditions and needs. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the municipality following rules of good administration in dealing with school leaving issues. However, I would like to stress that the municipality has the authority to take the final decisions, if it complies with the legislation in force in this area. The municipality itself decides which schools a municipality should have. I therefore have no opportunity to impose on the municipality what the school structure in the municipality should be like. I do not intend to present legislative proposals that change this either. As regards racial protection and safe school roads and safe roads for all, the Workers' Party was a driver in budgetary cooperation in order to increase its allocation. I am absolutely convinced that the work for racial protection will also be followed up by the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e583	State Council Giske has provided an excellent presentation of how this works, and clearly put its finger on the system's inadequacy and the parents' inability to influence these results. He has described it in detail. The only thing he forgot to quote was his own party trap Kosmo, who said, "We've heard everyone." What else can they expect? We're the ones who decide. This is a reasonably arrogant way of running politics. The Council of State said that the cases were submitted to the SAU for a ‘knowledge’ of closure. But will not parents be able to exert any kind of influence on these closures, which are defended by the fact that the municipalities do not have the finances to do their primary tasks? In my home municipality, which has been run continuously by the Workers' Party almost said since the morning, there have been a number of issues – ‘fun to have’ – that take precedence over legal tasks. This I don't think is special, I don't think so. I think it's quite normal in most municipalities. Unfortunately, I don't think it matters that much who leads them either, and it's even more scary. But what is important here is that Section 8-1 of the Training Act also says that the students should have the right to go to the nearest school. It should be possible to interpret it in such a way that a student has the right to choose the nearest one, he also has the right to choose something else. That interpretation has been put up and used in two cases so far by the State Education Office in Oslo and Akershus. What I was most concerned about, however, was not whether the rules of procedure had been followed in this case, but whether it is relevant – and thoughtfully well enough – to use municipal economy as an excuse to put children's lives and health at risk, without state action on the school road being implemented before this happens. We find ourselves in a situation where if children are killed on their way to school — and that may well happen — they actually have a price. They are valued in each municipality and in this room, and I and the Progress Party will not be involved. We don't want to empty the districts for people, as the majority seems to want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e598	I'm actually a little confused by the interpellant. On the one hand, I have realized that both she and Stortinget want greater local autonomy, greater localization, greater local freedom in the exercise of school policy. At the same time, you take from Stortinget's pulpit almost a detailed outline of local schools that you disagree with being closed down. You can't get both of them at the same time – if you have a local self-government, it must be self-government real. We can ensure that administration is followed, that people are heard, that participation is ensured, but the local people choose their own local politicians, and they are responsible for making that choice. If the Ursula Evje representative is dissatisfied with those local politicians, she may be able to do something about it in the municipal elections in 2003 by putting it there in the local election campaign and helping other politicians to be elected and other decisions taken. Then I'm also confused by the interpretation and the emphasis on §8-1, that you have the right to go to the nearest school. As far as I can see, the Evjes party has been a strong driver of so-called free school choices, namely that students should be able to choose freely which school they want to attend, and that grades and other relationships should determine who enters where. It is not compatible with the right to attend the nearest school — it is the opposite. I fully agree with what Evje now says, about the right to go to the nearest school, and therefore I have been and am still critical of the full release of school choices. That doesn't mean that a municipality can't complete cross-border schools. You're still going to be allowed to go to the nearest school, because if the branch school is closed, it's another school that's the nearest school. The paragraph cannot be interpreted as meaning that any school structure is frozen because there is a closer school that cannot be closed, because then you must not go to the nearest school. The third thing that confuses me is that you want to give the municipalities the opportunity to maintain the branch schools. It is intended to enable the counties to invest more in racial protection while at the same time providing a policy that will dramatically reduce the income base of municipalities and counties by drastically reducing taxes and taxes. Ursula Evje says that childhood has a price, and if a child dies on the road of race, it has a price. Yes, there are a lot of things we could do both in health care, in racial protection, in other protective work to ensure life. But it requires money, and if you want to eliminate taxes on tobacco and alcohol at the same time, reduce or eliminate taxes on wealth, remove taxes on property, reduce VAT, reduce income taxes, remove the top tax – together perhaps DKK 100 billion, if you follow the programme of the Progress Party – then certainly many lives have a price. But the reduction of taxes on tobacco and alcohol is thus more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e607	The Labour Party is of course for a good community economy, we are for a good school, and we are for a safe school path. When I hear this debate and this interpellation, I actually think it's almost comical. For the Progress Party, it has always been committed to cutting public sector cuts, privatising public services, including the school, and has been committed to removing central government. There has been something safe and secure about it – we have known where they stood, and we have known where they came from in every debate. But now, all of a sudden, an hour before the Easter break, the representative Evje jumps up and fights for the primary school and shows a touching concern for the local economy. I think this is surprising. During the examination of the last State budget, the Progress Party proposed to cut NOK 11 615 000 – DKK 11.6 billion – in the municipal sector. I don't know how much an all-round school costs on average, but I'm imagining that a lot of cross-country schools get for 11.6 billion kroner, so it has to be something that doesn't relate. I think I can go as far as to say that what Ursula Evje did here today, must be Norwegian championship in double communication. So you cut the local economy dramatically, and then you're sorry when you see that the services are getting worse. Now, in a few weeks' time, we're going to have a chance to discuss municipal economics again in this room, and I'm a little excited about where the Progress Party is going to end up then – that is. I'm not so terribly excited, because I expect them to be back in the same old track. I have experienced that there has been a rather large cross-political consensus that we need to get a greater degree of local self-government, we need to get more decisions made locally. There is something I have experienced that most of the parties, most of them here in the Chamber, have agreed – they have wanted the local authorities to take more of the decisions instead of everything going on in this Chamber. Then it's a little surprising when now the Progress Party suddenly goes against this and wants to go in and regulate the kind of schools in the districts that are going to exist, and what kind of schools are going to be closed down. And now there have been some debates around the municipalities about the closure of cross-border schools, and I haven't experienced that Evje's party traps in the Progress Party in the municipalities have been on the barricades to try to save small schools – I don't think there are any examples of that happening. What I'm asking is, is whether it's now such that this is a completely new thinking from the Progress Party, and that we can expect that the Progress Party of local municipal governments and local district councils will stand on to rock a decentralised school structure and fight hard for every single branch school around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e616	The situation in Volda is not unique. That's why I'm a little surprised when both the State Council and the representative from the Workers' Party are asking for examples that the Progress Party has been at and fighting for the urban schools. I would recommend both the Council of State and the representative Norvoll to take a trip to Nord-Trøndelag. For it is no longer longer than Thursday that the local government in the municipality of Levanger with the Workers' Party in the head made a massive closure of building schools. This happened simply because the Workers' Party and the Centre have jointly for 15-20 years misguided the economy of the Municipality of Levanger in such a way that one faced the election either to lay down schools or to be under state administration. And when the Workers' Party in that municipality got the choice between these two options, they chose to drop out of schools. This is an interesting debate and, of course, I share the view of the Council of State that cooperation committees should be consulted before closures. Of course they will too – it should just be missing. But then the council separates and signed teams. Because when he's talking about the municipalities having authority, I don't know if he's pointing at the administration or the politicians. My experience is that it's the administration that makes the closures, and that it's because of the change of role in the administration, where politicians have become investigators and the administrations that sign the race. When it comes to freedom of choice, that's not what the Council of State says. The fact that the student has the right to choose the nearest school, he claims to be the opposite of the Progress Party model. But the model of the Progress Party is precisely that parents and students should be free to choose. And then they can pick the nearest school, and pretty much I think parents and students want it, but of course it can be examples that they want other choices. The situation today is that the authorities as the Council of State calls it, or local politicians sit on their taboo and point to each student and send them from one edge of the municipality to the other. That's exactly the problem that would disappear through the Progress Party system where the money follows the student. And then I want to say right away – because it'll be part of the debate later, I think – that of course we want to differentiate and take account of the local conditions so that it becomes a differentiated price. Then I also want, although this is not a debate on local economy, to point to the figures that have emerged in relation to the deficit in the municipalities, and to look at the property conditions of the municipalities. Maybe our municipalities aren't that poor anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e627	The Christian People's Party is also concerned about the situation of primary schools. The school sector is often in a gap between other sectors of a pressurised local economy, among other things. due to earmarking for the implementation of reforms in order to achieve important national targets in the field of elderly care and health. We must take this seriously and ensure that the school is provided with adequate resources. But I'm not sure that branch schools get very good out of the money just follow the student, nor am I convinced that the relations of the Progress Party with the local economy will improve the conditions of the branch schools. The Christian People's Party has faith in local self-government and wants to facilitate local priorities. However, it is vital that more free resources are secured in the local economy so that there are also opportunities to maintain the primary school. In this connection, it was an important signal that came from the central government, when it was added 50 million. extra in the framework of last year to ensure continued maintenance of primary schools. It was precisely because they took the situation of these schools seriously. The school has a major impact on a living community and on maintaining a local environment. In addition, the school contributes to the maintenance and further development of local traditions in its education. It is worth noting that issues of school drop-outs in municipalities have triggered strong local involvement. The positive importance of primary schools in local communities must not be underestimated. Often the school has a function far beyond being a place of study. It is also a meeting place and a meeting place in different social contexts. Studies have, for example: show that few schools are more active in ICT use, as it appears to be easier to make changes in less than in larger schools. Schooling in municipalities has also triggered local involvement in private schools. Therefore, a commitment to maintaining primary schools will be a commitment to maintaining public schools. In order to ensure that schools are not closed unnecessarily, it is important to have a thorough process prior to the decision itself. It was therefore important that the central government in the setting up of the Training Act should be able to ensure that parents should be consulted at school. The participation of parents is thus ensured in a better way than in the past. The number of closures in recent years has been stable. It's about 20-30 schools in the last few years. «Set the school on the agenda and people are engaged», wrote the Municipal Report on 13 April. Reference is made to a study where approx. 60 pst. by the rapporteurs, the pressure on school affairs has been felt. ‘If it had not been for parental involvement, these... schools would have been closed’, says the Vice-President of Strand. It shows that it is possible to turn politicians around.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e644	There are four reasons why I should like to take the floor in this debate. But let me say, before I start the reality, that of course it's very good and positive to say about the little schools. The first reason is that the representative Evje in the interpellation makes claims to my municipality of residence Volda, at least indirectly, which I cannot stand up to. The impression is given that parents have not been heard here, and the community has not been heard. There have been 246 statements on this matter from parents, elephants and teams, and they are by no means clear. It has our held ears. There have been 17 different options. There have been scientific discussions on economic, pedagogical and sociological aspects, and this work has gone on for several years. It has our big meeting with parents and others. At least it shouldn't have the Volda municipality hanging on it. The second reason is that although there is a lot of good with the crossbows, it is not clear whether a small school is good or bad for the students. Of the two schools to be laid in Volda from the fall, the one has six elephants, and the other has eleven elephants. The third school to be laid down next fall, in three-four years, would have five elephants left. We're talking about three schools together, 22 elephants that are going to cover the 1-7 classes, and then there's a question of whether these are really good solutions. Personally, I am in doubt that a person is able to get a good educational offer in these, but it is clear that in some schools it can go well, in other schools go worse. Let me also stress that the savings that happen here are going to benefit the school in terms of frame hours that one or the other would have had to cut dramatically. Third, this is true of racial protection and racial danger. I live by one of the fjords that's very rascal, and I know this in and out. On the routes mentioned by the representative Evje, daily school pupils travel to and from school. People travel to and from training and other organized activity. Then I can get help from the Progress Party to get more money for racial protection to More and Romesdal, of course I would like to say yes to that. Fourthly, the question that basically occupied me most is to clarify what the representative is, and what it really is, the representative, Evje. What exactly is the Progress Party going to do? It's said that the money should follow the students. Well, let's assume NOK 30,000, which is the average of operating costs. Should one drive Steinsvik school for six times $30,000, that is, $10,000 a year, or Heartå school for $10,000 a year? That model doesn't go on small balls. Then the question is: Should the Stortinget or other people get in and control the municipalities by refusing the municipalities to drop the schools, or will they have ear-marked funds? There must be a specific answer and not just a problem description.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e657	I am somewhat uncertain about how to interpret the signals in the first sentence of the Ursula Evje interpellation. Here it is said: ‘Because of the alleged poor community economy, administration is increasingly promoting proposals for the closure of small schools’, etc. There can be no doubt that many municipalities are struggling with a very tight local economy today. Hasn't the Progress Party brought it? The inter-pellant has probably recorded, as I do, that more schools are proposed on the part of the municipal administration than the final decision of the politicians. There's been evidence lately. It's in itself very good and shows that local democracy works. I have no doubt that the examples that the interpellant has in the interpellant match reality. But when that's said, I assume that the decisions made by the local politicians are based on thorough assessments and not on allegedly bad economics, as the interpellant calls it. If this was what the interpellant claims, we had to recommend a follow-up training course for the municipal administration, to say it was a little frail, but it's not our table. I have noticed that the Progress Party is trying to turn itself into a spokesman for the local economy, the last of which was posted by the representative Vidar Kleppe here in the Chamber yesterday. But when you know about the Advance Party's alternative budget proposal, this is going to be hollow. Crocodile tears can be called it. I am sure that the municipal politicians would not have gotten any easier if the Progress Party's proposal on the price principle or the so-called money were to be implemented in accordance with the student principle. I don't think the parents had more control either, as Ursula Evje claimed. Of course, it costs more to have three schools with 30 students than one school with 90 students. When local politicians want to give priority to this, it is because they believe it is the best thing for the students and the community as a whole. So until the serious element in the case, that students now have to be gunned down on rogue roads in Volda. Obviously, the school roads have to be secured wherever they are in the country. In this context, the central government actually introduced a subsidy scheme for road safety measures on county and municipal roads, a continuation of the ‘School Road Action’. Municipalities may apply for state resources based on municipal road safety plans. On a general basis, I fully agree that municipalities must listen to what parents want from school. It was just supposed to be missing. The municipalities are for the sake of the inhabitants and not the other way around. Of course, I do not know the situation in Volda municipality in detail. But I have checked so that I know that the municipal government decision is based on a new decentralised school model. When there is no more than – as we heard before – six or nine students in some schools, it is natural that a person assesses what is best for the learning situation. It is also part of the decision that the infrastructure must be in place. As my source said, we can think, too, not only of the Stortinget. I heard that the interpellant said something like what was done in Volda was naive. There is a strong attack on local self-government, and it is probably recorded by politicians who will now read the record with interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e672	I understand the confusion of the Council of State. Ursula Evje obviously has a real commitment to the small schools, compared to the primary schools, but I am quite convinced that the same commitment – yes, at least as strongly – exists around Norwegian municipal politicians. An average Norwegian municipal politician has at least the same commitment to defending the small schools that Ursula Evje has. The closure of cross-border schools is primarily an expression of public poverty. If we look at the public share of the economy and measure it in relation to gross domestic product, it has been decreasing in the 1990s. In periods of government over 50 p.m. of gross domestic product. This is now down to 40 pst. There has been a rather dramatic reduction in the public share of the economy, and this leads to what we now see, among other things. with school leavings. It is not credible when it is the Progress Party that takes this up and goes into action on local politicians, for the Progress Party is the party that has opted for the greatest reduction in transfers to the local government sector. In this year's budget, they wanted to reduce the framework transfers by several billion dollars. And then you can show that you want a different model. That's okay. But in relation to today's model and within the framework with which we operate today, they want a significant reduction in transfers to the local government sector. In addition, the transfers they wish shall be earmarked for health and care. It will clearly be even stronger than is the case today, affecting the education sector. As Petter Løvik was in the room, it's a little unclear what is the answer of the Progress Party. There are three possibilities if we want to do something about this from Stortinget. We can change the Training Act, make it more difficult to make school drop-outs purely legal. We can do something with ear-marked means. We can put in ear-marked funds aimed at cross-border schools and small schools. We can do something about the model of transfers to the municipal sector, the so-called Rattsø model, where we input variables that take more account of the school structure than is the case today. The progress party does not respond to any of this. They do not respond to any of their wishes. We should know about this – not just such a frontal attack on local politicians where they are more or less portrayed as villains and bitches. Probably they have at least as high morals as an average policyholder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e686	It is very good to say about the cross sphere. I believe that local politicians around are probably as well fit to talk about and take care of themselves as we do in Stortinget. We can get involved – we probably all do in our own municipalities too – because that's actually the way it is, I think, that there's a big wish around holding the ball. But when one of these also talks about one going to the nearest school, it sounds a little bit like the local fireball is right in the neighborhood. In many large settlements where people bur spread, it's like three kilometers to the roundabout. It should not be so easy for us to say what it is like to be around the individual municipalities, because this is something that local politicians can do very well. What we're going to do as a magnification is secure an economy that allows us to have a roundabout school, secure a law that allows you to take care of both the people who live there and the kids who are there – and parents who have the kids in the school can be heard when it comes to the school structure. I feel that there is a broad agreement on how our law should be. From the side of the Progress Party, there is no point in any other bill than having it as it is. It's purely a matter of the local economy that a person picks up this interpellation. It must then be allowed here from this pulpit to point out what the Progress Party has contributed to when it concerns the local economy. So they've gone in for a cut of over 11 billion dollars in what's going to secure the roundabout bullets in the municipalities. For me, therefore, the interpellation gives a crazy angle to this, because we are going to be involved in law and regulation, and then it's going to be the municipal politicians, in my view, who are going to deal with both the crossbroadcasts and the offer to the students in the school. So I have to say, like many others here, I'm not surprised, but I ask a lot of questions when the Progress Party takes this up – the Progress Party that has been the one who has been the most involved in reducing the local authorities' ability to maintain a different school structure, by reducing so much when it comes to funds for transfers to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e695	The intentions of the representative are the best, but the instruments do not depend on it, at least if you look at the policy of the Progress Party in the context, but I am not going to spend time on it. I'd rather outline which models you actually have to follow if you're going to live out the representative's legend. Either you have to do what the Left is open to, to have a lot less designation of transfers to the municipalities, combined with the possibility locally to vary the taxpayer. It means the possibility of increasing taxes to the population of Norway if you have a good local purpose for which local politicians can be elected and thrown. That's the one model. The second model, which would have made the commitment of the Progress Party and Evies consistent, had been a situation where the Progress Party dramatically cut the transfers to the municipalities and had a clear record on the state budget called the State Budget Post for the single-price financing of the Progress Party's forward-looking school. The third model is not to do any of this, but generally look at the framework of the local economy. If you don't want any of these tools, there'll be a pretty brutal collision between ideals and reality. I'm not going to run the debate right before a Easter break longer than that. I think all the games should clean up which main models they choose to go after. For the good intentions and instruments must be linked. Then, of course, it's another tool, and it's an appeal that goes to the whole Biggest. Once again, a district politician from Oslo is taking the floor. This Oslo district politician has no problem understanding why there is a significant need for racial protection in Coast Norway. Anyone who knows the Norwegian geography – there may be violence, there may be many other places in More and Romesdal, Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and, to go north, Troms and Nordland – will know that money is needed for racial protection. When you get to the transport budgets, you will have the choice between what you spend money for. Then all of us as representatives will have to test what we want to prioritise first, because we can't give priority to everything first. But there's another way of dealing with the representative, Evie's posts, and I respect that part of the post where we're reminded that there's race in parts of the country, that it's part of almost daily life, and that it's a challenge that we're sitting in the national assembly of the country, is to take us along, regardless of the geographical origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e708	A claim that seems to go back in today's debate both from the Council of State, from the Workers' Party, from the Christian People's Party, from the SV and now from the Left is that the Progress Party will attack the local economy, and that we should therefore keep our mouths shut in this debate. This is wrong. I am standing here with a document from the Central Statistical Office, which is the SSB's MODAG calculation of the Progress Party's proposal for the State Budget for 2000. This shows that even if the Progress Party cuts something into the framework grants to the municipalities, our other increases towards the municipalities, in the ISF, in taxpayers, etc. and the positive impact of the State budget proposals of the Progress Party will have on wage developments and prices, a net increase to municipalities of 2,421 million. kr, which is better than the centre parties and the budget of the Workers' Party. We must therefore once and for all put an end to these claims that the Progress Party is attacking the local economy. Otherwise, I notice that the Council of State felt that it was impossible to have free schooling at the same time as you had the right to go to the nearest school. As I see it, it's actually no problem to have two thoughts both in your head and in a code at the same time. These principles can both be incorporated into legislation and legislation. Schools are laid down because of poor municipal economy — it is established, and it is said. My colleague Ursula Evje has pointed out that municipalities have the necessary resources if they choose to give proper priority. The municipal politician must give priority to the school rather than less important municipal tasks. It is not possible to build a cultural house or a new town hall or to grant funds for actions that are not in the main tasks of the municipality, such as health and school, if you want to give priority to these areas. The municipality also has significant possibilities for improving its efficiency. Finally, it is also claimed here that the party's price system does not allow support for cross-border schools. This isn't right. From this platform, I have often put forward proposals on our single pricing system, and each time this has contained separate arrangements for specific regions when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e719	I have to say I was surprised, especially when I heard what the Council of State Giske said in connection with the interpellation of the representative Evje. I am particularly surprised when I hear the views of other parties in this Chamber on prioritising the primary tasks of the municipalities, namely the education sector and the health and social sector. And if it hasn't happened to this assembly that we in the Progress Party want the money to automatically follow patients when it's the patients who need it, or the school sector based on the students they have, then I have to say that I'm worried about my colleagues in other parties who don't understand this. Another concrete proof that the Progress Party is the best friend of the school sector and the municipalities is that the Control and Constitutional Committee had a review and review of Reform 97 in the past year. And in the context of Reform 97, what happened? Indeed, over 200 municipalities in the Kingdom of Norway were able to demonstrate and complain that the State did not take them seriously when they found that the investments in the school sector to carry out this reform were insufficient. And it was rejected by all the parties in this room, except the Advance Party. The progress party wanted the municipalities that could prove that they had more expenditure than they had received from the government to receive financial compensation for this. And that's a very serious problem for the municipalities. Municipalities like Oslo, where there are well over 100 million people, the municipality of Kristiansand and the council of state, Trondheim, have had a long-term dialogue with the department about this, because the local economy is getting poor when the other politicians are unable to prioritize the primary tasks of the municipality. And when they're going to struggle with such a decision in the Stortinget in addition, it's clear that it won't be easy for municipal politicians who want to give funds to everything, but who aren't willing to give priority. One can go further and look at what the municipalities, for example. has holdings in shares. In municipal energy plants, an estimated value is DKK 200 billion. When you go on in and look at properties, it's talking about you having for hundreds of billions there as well. So it's clear that the municipal politicians, by giving priority and thinking new things, can do mass. But I note that the discussion and debate will be the same when it comes to taking care of the primary tasks of the municipality, namely that all the other parties in this room instead of being concrete, making solutions, shooting at Progress Parity. But then they shoot wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e728	I noticed that a representative for whom the President has previously beaten me still seems to have a problem. Furthermore, I noticed that the Council of State was confused at least three times in less than three minutes. It's suspicious. Our policies for the municipal sector are based, as far as I know – and I thought it was reasonably clear to everyone after all Carl I. Hagen’s comments about this precisely – on the fact that there should be a state-guaranteed responsibility. State funds shall be provided in the fields of health, care and school. In principle, these sectors do not directly burden the local government budget. It is directly financed by the state. And when one then claims that this is NOK 30,000 per person. It's also so naive that I don't even want to remind the representative of where he came from. It is entirely a mist that should not happen from this pulpit and in this house. Greater local self-government – of course, but you don't have to control what is directly financed by the fact that the money follows the student in order to guarantee the student a minimum of teaching, of organized education and of special education, and guarantee that when they leave the Norwegian school, they can read, write and calculate. It's not happening today, and that's something we have to take over. And it won't be better to centralize schools. I will be allowed to remind the Council of State that § 8-1 was adopted in a cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and that free school choice must be based on the right of students and parents to choose the nearest one. But if you have a right to choose one, you also have to have the right to choose the other if you want to. But it is neither for me nor the Council of State to decide what is desirable for 500,000 schoolchildren in this country. It is a parental right enshrined in the Children's Act and talked about from all parties in this house quite so many times – but it comes out very little of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e744	I am pleased that this debate has shown that there is broad support for the main points in my first speech, namely that it is the local self-government that should apply primarily. We must ensure that laws and regulations are observed in relation to hearing the interests involved, and, of course, the obligations of the curriculum are followed up. I assume, of course, that no more people don't learn to read, write and calculate because they have to go to a different school in Volda than they might originally have been going on. Let me just solve a couple of things, first of all this with the right to attend school rather than free school choices. It can't be that you can fully give the right to free schooling while ensuring that people are allowed to attend high school. You get problems if a community secondary school is very popular so that the application for it becomes very large, and at the same time you have to make sure that everyone nearby is going to go on it. You can't have a school that dimensions the size of the school building and the place of the students based on the applications every year. I think that would involve costs that would even get the new promises of the Progress Party on appropriations per year. student to pale. Secondly, the representative Sandberg was concerned that it was the administration and not the politicians who decided. I remember a campaign a few years ago – ‘Mobb a politician’ – which meant that politicians had to have less influence. I am pleased that new signals are coming, that politicians should have greater influence over these decisions, so that the choices they have made are taken on the basis that the election results have given. So a third explanation: in the context of the budgets and the local economy, it was black that the alternative state budget of the Progress Party had no lower municipal economy after the MODAG calculation. I refer to the Progress Party programme, which has a long list of taxes and taxes to be either removed or reduced, and which, in sum, is likely to lead to a reduction in public revenue of between 80 and 100 billion kroner. The Progress Party programme says on page 3 that this is a programme to be implemented during the period in which we are involved. Then I think it might be a double moral to both stand for it and market it in many contexts with reduced taxes – which is certainly a popular case – and at the same time say that the municipalities will get more money. I think the representative Løvik had an absolutely glittering point when he showed that an average student grant of NOK 30 000 could not possibly finance an inter-company school of six people. And if the Progress Party, in addition to re-funding, is going to make dramatic changes, as an increase in the grant per cent. student, I think you have to go different ways with taxes and taxes than what's in the program. However, I am pleased that the debate has shown that today's policy has broad support in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e757	Then we're done with the interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e769	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2846]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e777	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e1141	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e1165	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-14.ana.ud783e1172	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 11 April 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to defer the proposal for the transition from gross to net pension benefits to widows and widowers until it can be considered together with, where appropriate, the proposals for the reduction of survivors’ pensions from Social Security.’
