ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e25	Since this is the first meeting of the Stortinge in the new year, the President will take the opportunity to wish the representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Stortinge, the members of the press and all those who have their work related to the Storinge, a really good new year. With regard to today's map, the president assumes that it is a good idea to start with the case of the Committee on Transport, and the president assumes that the Committee on Transport will 'lose' us through the first map in the new year. The representatives of Bjørn Hernæs, Terje Knudsen, Steinar Bastesen and Svein Ludvigsen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. They called for alternates, for Akershu County Tron Erik Hovind and for the South Trondelag County of Tore Nordseth, have taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Christian People's Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Anne Britt Stråtveit from 11 January onwards and until further notice from the Left Group on the leave of the representative Terje Johansen in the days from 11 January until 12 January to attend the Lerchendal Conference in Trondheim On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representatives, for West Agder County Sigmund Kroslid and for Akershu County Borghild Tenden, are called to meet during the leave period.3. Sigmund Kroslid and Borghild Tenden are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Anne Britt Stråtveit and Terje Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e85	Sigmund Kroslid and Borghild Tenden are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e90	The President will propose the election of a president for the current week’s meetings – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e95	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e100	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Wideth is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e112	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e121	Int. S. No 85 for 1999-2000, which we are going to debate today, the Labour Party and the Centre Party are the pluralities of the comments. Apart from a comment on language skills requirements, SV is also part of the plurality. In my article I take the starting point from the comments from the majority. The rules for the unemployment insurance system we have today entered into force on 1 May 1995. The main basis for the discharge regime is the safety of maritime traffic along the coast. It is important to stress that the Unbundling Scheme is one of several measures to ensure security. Other measures are e.g.: the lease marking and the further compilation of electronic maps. St.meld. No 47 for 1998-1999, which is the basis for the debate, is an evaluation of the pilot scheme introduced in 1995. The notification takes particular account of the areas where changes have been raised or where experience suggests that a more detailed assessment is required to make the system more efficient and cost-effective. The change in the lay-off scheme in 1995 extended the geographical area where there is an obligation to provide services. The obligation to discharge was also extended to Norwegian vessels. At the same time, a certificate system was in place aimed at allowing specially qualified navigators to sail in uninhabited waters without being unloaded. In other words, there were quite extensive changes in the unloading system in 1995. Traffic along the Norwegian coast has increased a lot in recent years. At the same time, transport of dangerous goods also has added value. This should be a statistical calculation that could lead to an increase in the frequency of accidents. When this has not happened, there is reason to believe that a contributing reason is that the looting service holds a high professional level, and that the looting service performs its tasks in a good way. One of the drivers for the change in the unloading system in 1995 was that the unloading fee would cover all the costs of the loading service. For the introduction of the new unbundling system, a charging rate had to be introduced into a charging system with no experience. In order to avoid any imbalance between the fee revenue and the cost of the lozen service leading to an increase in the fee rates, the majority have pointed to the earlier opinion of a single committee, namely that the ministry has to consider establishing a regulatory fund in order to have a stable and prudent fee. In the conversion of the charging system in 1995, it was a goal that a greater part of the costs would be borne by the unincorporated ships that have been unloaded on board. The majority in the committee have registered that this conversion has essentially been successful. The government has signaled that it is assessed to make the charging system more cost-oriented. This is not the case in the majority of cases, but it suggests that the consequences of any changes for individual groups of users will be considered in this process. The charging of lots has an impact on the competitive situation of maritime transport. If maritime transport is to increase its share of freight transport, costs cannot be too high. Difor must include: The lozenest is most efficient. The majority, therefore, have asked the Ministry to optimise the loading service when it comes to cost-effective operation, while maintaining safety in the best possible way. It has to be, for example. assess the potential for innovation in new technologies and innovation. Remote unloading from traffic centres can be e.g. be cost-effective. The majority are therefore looking forward to the possible remote unloading from the Horten traffic centre. The majority have pointed out in their comments that the legislation on unloading arrangements must be easy to understand and practice, so as to avoid different interpretations. At the same time, changes need to be made in order to integrate greater flexibility into the legislation. In evaluating the unloading system, it is important that accidental regulatory problems are eliminated. The government has e.g. point itself to the fact that the legislation for obtaining a certificate of fairway may have created problems for vessels/navigators of mixed speed. The majority are therefore aware that solutions are found that seem reasonable for the group of ships which are mainly engaged in domestic voyages but which occasionally perform international voyages. Finally, I would just like to point out that with some clarifications in the plural's comments, the Government agrees with the assessments made in the message, and the statements to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e144	The Advocate General gave a thorough examination of the contents of the Government's document and the setting up of the Committee. I'm not going to spend time on it, but focus on getting the Workers' Party's views on this message. St.meld. No 47 for 1998-1999 is half-work in many ways. Something else is probably not the meaning of all the time we are just processing a message here. The Ministry also writes that it has not been intended to address all aspects of the case, but the Council of State should note that we in the Labour Party are impatient after that is done. As elected representatives, we're always faced with questions about what we're doing, and when we're reminded of this in various circumstances, we all have to help make the safety of the sea as good as possible. In 1995, we received changes in the handling fee and the obligation to provide that all ships, including the Norwegians, would have been unloaded if they were over 500 BT. There are other rules for ships carrying dangerous goods. The tightening of the obligation to unload, and thus the increase in unloading, has not led to an increase in security. The question, which cannot be answered, is what would have happened if we had not adopted these changes. We got, as I said, increased unloading, but the expenses were unexpectedly large. Since this should be a self-financing scheme, we have thus had to take in the excesses with an additional charge for three years to cover it. Based on this, in addition to another increase in expenditure, it's not so unnatural that the industry gives us politicians the signal that we should look at the input factor and the results. It is a fact that, with today's system, exemptions are granted for ships when unloaded is not available within the time limits set. I'm not sure there's a good signal effect. The Labour Party believes that one should consider giving a fairway ticket to more people if they meet the requirements of Nordic and/or English-speaking navigators. The Labour Party will also indicate that if the Ministry finds the time to establish a permanent advisory selection under the auspices of the Coastal Agency to contribute to better communication between the parties concerned, there should be room for a representative of the members of the Seafarers. They're the ones who know best how to press the shoe. The working party will also help to make better use of the traffic centres that we will eventually have four pieces of. Furthermore, thoughts about that operation must in the long run be seen in conjunction with the movement of the sea following electronic maps along the whole coast and in the light of the fact that it will reduce ship traffic costs and no more, as it is today. Losing is one safety measure at sea. It is important that we focus on all measures that can increase security. The working party wants to be an active member for that purpose. Therefore, we are included in all the plural comments in the St.meld setting. No 47, and we are looking forward to the Ministry coming up with several proposals for measures to ensure maritime traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e172	Norway has always been a maritime nation that has taken a large part of its sea revenues, both through fishing and maritime transport. The Progress Party is therefore committed to ensuring safety for seafarers along our long-range coast. Protection of life, health and the environment is high on the agenda of the Progress Party. In recent years ships and boats have gained significantly better manoeuvrability and are better equipped for navigation than before, including: using GPS and electronic maps. The use of lots must therefore be based on necessity and not on the employment of a profession based on historical reasons. Reference is made to ships operating the same waters several times per. weeks, also subject to compulsory unemployment. Many ships are now better equipped than the new traffic centres that have come into operation. These centres are largely based on radar and radio communications. The progress batch is concerned with a high level of navigation safety. This also includes an adequate and well-qualified detoxification system in Norway today. It is important that, in the context of the enormous developments that have taken place in recent years in several areas in the field of ship navigation safety, it is considered when assessing the existence of unaccompanied and unaccompanied charging systems. The Progress Party will also underline the importance of predictability in the framework conditions of maritime transport. The Progress Party therefore considers that pilots and traffic centres need to be viewed in a coherent manner and assessed against other alternatives. The Progress Party therefore endorses the proposal for an overall assessment of the safety measures at sea, which specifically assesses the actual needs and benefits of the various measures. Better labelling, chart information and revision of the sailing regulations are important so that they comply with current requirements. The Progress Party proposed 20 million in its draft budget for the year 2000. kr more for the labelling of fairways than the other lots and 58 mills. kr to the Rescue Company, while the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left reduced this grant by 6 million. kr. The Party considers that, in the light of recent years’ developments in research, on-board technical equipment and new navigational requirements, it is appropriate to introduce a new unloading system based mainly on voluntary use on routes suitable for it. The unloading obligation should be limited to areas which, for reasons of ship safety, coastal zones and defence, should be unloaded. The locosystem is currently disproportionately expensive, and a significant reduction in, among others, is necessary. unloading costs to improve the profitability of maritime transport without impairing safety. In St.meld. No 43 for 1993-94, provision was made for resources in the unloading service to be kept at an unaltered level for a transitional period of two years. However, the evaluation has been repeatedly postponed and will only be finalised more than four years after implementation. When the handling fees alone have increased by more than 50 pst. since its introduction, it represents a breach of the Storting's assumption to keep the overall burden of charges on shipping approximately unchanged. Public statistics show that maritime transport loses market share for road transport in the same period. At the same time, the Communication states that further investigations are to be carried out on all issues that may be relevant to changes. This means a further postponement of the evaluation, which, in the view of the Progress Party, should have been carried out for the longest time. A key challenge for Norwegian transport policy in the years to come will be to ensure good accessibility and the lowest possible transport costs both at sea and at land, in all parts of the country, while at the same time ensuring a good environment and safety. In practice, the competitiveness of maritime transport continues to be impaired by additional charging increases. The 100 pst. the user-funded unloading scheme contributes significantly to this, but it is important that it does not exceed the real needs and costs and that it is efficiently operated. This is important if you want to relieve our roads by transporting more at sea, which for a long time has been our highway no. 1st@item: inlistbox The Progress Party believes that a better level of safety at sea can also be achieved in other and more cost-effective ways, such as: electronic navigational charts, GPS and better fairway markings. Since the introduction of the new unloading system in May 1995, there has been an increase in the total unloading budget of 59 pst, of which 14 pst. only in exceptional increments from 1998 to 1999. Calculations by the Transport Users’ Joint Organisation show an increase in the annual fee for the 103 pst. for the period 1995 to 1999. The annual fee is also levied from ships that have a fairway certificate and therefore do not use a pilot's licence. In addition, there will be an increase in the fees to be paid to lighthouses and brands and in the so-called safety charges to traffic centres. In St. prp. No 5 for 1998-99, the most recent increase in costs is explained by the increase in the growth of the bulk activity resulting in increased use of overtime. In addition, there has been a structural change in the lot activity by increasing the proportion of card loose. Some of these exceedances are also due to a lack of budgetary management. In addition to a lack of economic overview and governance, a low degree of flexible regulatory practice and increasing call control have been cost-effective. The Progress Party believes that the activity should be managed as necessary in the light of the safety of seafarers and the coastal environment. The progress party considers that the competitiveness of maritime transport in the south is adversely affected when the forecast indicates that traffic in the south will subsidise traffic in the north of Town and is intended as part of the system. The progressing party would point out that visibility, wave and current conditions are not taken into account in today’s unemployment obligation system. There is a marked distinction between summer and winter navigation challenges in Norway and between fog, precipitation and night versus clear weather and daylight. The Progress Party sees that there are clear differences and believes that the use of pilots should be nuanced by water, electricity and safety. This will provide a potential for achieving significant efficiencies. In the 1995 losing levy, shipping has weakened its competitiveness through increased costs of losing. While Norwegian navigators have to a large extent been able to obtain evidence of fairway based on past experience, new navigators meet very rigid requirements to qualify for such evidence. The Progress Party considers that the handling charges must be set up in such a way that the emergency fee is limited to the needs and use of the unloading does not exceed the costs necessary for the service. The disbursement must be directed towards costs and traffic in the individual areas and differentiated according to preparedness and use. A distinction should be made between fishing and shipping, which are two independent and different industries. The Progress Party believes that the system of fairway certificates must be revised so that those who have a fairway certificate and release it do not pay for a pilot service that they do not use. However, it is also accepted by shipping companies that those who hold a fairway certificate also contribute financially to improving the labelling of Norwegian waters. The charging of lots represents part of the transport costs of business and is therefore of importance for the competitive situation of maritime transport. It is therefore important to take into account ship size and ability to pay and to have a good data base and analytical tool in order to be able to make a continuous assessment of the activity and cost of the pilot service. The importance of technological developments in the navigation sector in relation to the scope and scope of the unemployment obligation is also important in this context. The establishment of traffic centres, new navigation systems and the use of electronic navigational charts may have an impact on the use of pilots and pilot services in general. Alternative forms of access to the pilot services will be natural to be seen in the context of the follow-up of NOU 1999:5 The new Coastal Plant, which provides the basis for a review of the scope of the whole establishment. The Progress Party believes that the Coastal Plant could be converted to AS with advantage and that the pilot service is also an area that should be put out for competition. Finally, whatever is done to improve safety along our coast, it is those who travel on the sea, who have the overall responsibility that they do not take chances with their own lives or those of others, and that boats and equipment tackle the weather and waters where they travel. The sea may be both a friend and an enemy, and it is important that life-saving appliances are available and that the use of this equipment is known. In view of the recent accidents involving catamaran boats, it should be considered whether so-called watertight bulkheads could be filled with plastic foams, so that holes in them do not cause water to penetrate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e212	For the Christian People's Party, consideration is given to the safety of maritime traffic, which is the main reason for the unemployment insurance system. The disembarkation service is a prerequisite for protecting health, safety and the environment along one of the most demanding coastlines in the world. It is worth noting that although traffic has increased sharply along the Norwegian coast in recent years, the accident rate has not increased. It is reasonable to assume that a strong contributing reason for this is that the unemployment insurance system is functioning and that the unemployment insurance service has a high professional level. As the Christian People's Party sees it, there is therefore reason to warn against any desire to reduce the unemployment obligation by «establishing a new unloading system based mainly on voluntary use on sections suitable for it», as the Progress Party expresses itself in the comments of St.meld. No 47. The fairway certificate system for particularly competent navigators has helped to release the necessary capacity and ease the pressure on the pilot service. This system should be continued and developed. However, the regulatory framework for obtaining such a certificate of fairway has resulted in unintended difficulties for vessels or mixed-seagoing navigators. In this context, there is particular reason to mention ships that mainly run along the Norwegian coast and that travel in international traffic from time to time. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that solutions appear reasonable for this group of vessels as well. One of the main objectives of the reform of the retail charging system was that a greater proportion of the unloading costs should be borne by unincorporated ships using the loosing system. As can be seen from St.meld. No 47, this objective is essentially fulfilled. In this sense, the 1995 reform is successful. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that the Government is considering making the charging system even more cost-oriented. The figures in the notification clearly show that the pilot service has implemented important efficiency measures. While the real costs per year Loan operations in 1998 amounted to more than DKK 8 000, this figure was down to DKK 6 400 in 1994, and has remained relatively constant after this, despite large wage increases during the same period. Furthermore, statistics show that today, with an equal size of the loosing body, far more unloadings are being carried out now than before. The pilotage service is available to prevent accidents, not to impose costs on maritime transport. It is clear that unloading charges have an impact on the competitive conditions of maritime transport. In order to achieve the objective of shifting more of road transport to maritime transport, as outlined in the draft national transport plan of the etas, it is necessary that the unloading service is operated as efficiently as possible without compromising safety. Therefore, further improvements in the efficiency of the unloading service are of great importance. It requires innovation and an in-depth assessment of what new technology could have to say for the unemployment obligation and the entire unloading service. It is particularly interesting to assess the possibilities of remote unloading from traffic centres. The Christian People's Party is waiting with interest for the results of the investigation on possible remote unloading from the Horten traffic centre. This is one of many possible measures to make the unloading service more cost-effective over time. The government also wants to launch investigations in several areas in the light of the issues identified by this pilot system evaluation. This applies, inter alia, to: developing a better data base and a better analytical tool for the continuous assessment of the pilot service, an assessment of the potential impact of the technology on the pilot service and a thorough investigation of the overall scope of the pilot service. In addition, the Government will examine the design of the charging system itself and the implications for individual user groups of any legislative changes. In this way, the basis for future proposals is laid which, overall, will result in the most efficient use of resources, both for industry and for administrations. The Christian People's Party also supports the Government's intention to establish a permanent Advisory Forum for the Coastal Directorate. Such a selection will be composed of representatives from the trade organisations and the Coastal Agency, and may contribute to better dialogue between the stakeholders in the unloading service. Cost management and predictability of the costs of unloading have been at the heart of the evaluation of the unloading service. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will eventually refer to the comment in the Budget-Inst. S. No 13 for 1999-2000, where the majority asks the Ministry to consider establishing a regulatory fund to contribute to stable and predictable unloading fees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e233	This case has a long history that I'm not going to go into in detail, but which it's a little bit important to figure out if you're going to understand that you have a majority and a minority here. From the time we changed the ship's measurement system, the charging system, there has been a problem with cost developments. In 1994 we had one case, in 1995 we had one case, in 1996 we had one case, and so we got the budget case in 1998, where we pointed out that the costs had become so large that we had to cover this deficit over three years, if I don't remember completely wrong. What has been Right's objection to this is that we have perceived it as a broad consensus in the UK that we should try to strengthen maritime transport in this country, for environmental reasons. It is then obvious that there is also a need to concentrate on the cost of this industry, which is intended to provide competitive conditions that enable it to compete with the other modes of transport. We've had quite a lot of focus on it, and it's probably no secret in this room that we've been warning this development since 1994 that we're now seeing. It is true that when you have a monopoly system, when you have a self-financing system, you have to be on guard. I have often pointed out that there is a need to have models that show how efficiency develops, not because there is some mistrust of the monopoly, because in some areas monopolises may be needed, but it is important for authorities to have models to check whether cost developments are reasonable. That's what we've been pointing out for many years, and I also think experience so far has shown that it's necessary to look at the efficiency improvement. So I must strongly stress that this has nothing to do with security. There has always been a point that the Losvessen in Norway is good, but at the same time there are also measurements that show that there are some cost elements in the Norwegian Losvessen that differ from what you have in other Nordic countries. And then someone will probably claim that there are different conditions in the other Nordic countries versus Norway, and I think that's also true, but that doesn't have to prevent you from turning on every stone, not to reduce safety, but to take care of what a large majority in the Great Britain has been concerned about, that we should try to facilitate conditions so that we can get more transport across the sea, for environmental reasons. In this context, I think it is important to be aware that you should do something on the loose side, you have to look at several things at the same time. In the right, we have no problems with many of the proposals for action proposed by the central government, and can fully join in many of them. But in some areas, we think that the picture should have been filled in something. To someone's surprise, we actually have a point in our proposals for measures that say we should look at the fairways and at the signs and lights associated with them, precisely because if we're going to do something about the unloading service, of course we have to see if it's possible to increase the safety of the installations along our coast, along the highway. 1 in this country. It surprises us that no one wants to be part of this, I just register it. It's possible that it's just a mistake that you haven't seen it, but it's a very important point for the Right in this context. So if you want to look at this, you have to look at several things at the same time, so that you don't weaken safety and hopefully at the same time achieve a cost reduction in maritime transport, and so that we can achieve the overall objective that we have set ourselves, namely that maritime transport should take over more of the transport that can be connected to the sea. After reading the settings, I believe that there is a fairly high degree of consensus in this respect. I can't really see that there's really such a big difference. As I said, there are some points that I should have liked to have seen that you had been on, but I take it for granted that the Council of State is looking at all the proposals for action. Of course, if there is some sense in the suggestions of others, you take them with you. So I hope that the next time we're going to evaluate this is exactly the same place, with new cost increases/explosions related to maritime transport, with the result that Norwegian maritime transport is simply being competed out, and that we get the transport over there as many in this house, including those who signed it, want us not to get it, namely over on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e254	I can start by joining the last statement by the representative Oddvard Nilsen that we need to focus on having a policy that means that we do not carry the transport over to the road, either from the sea or from the railway. Everyone has stressed this with safety and the environment. As the Advocate General Jorunn Ringstad said, SV is part of the majority, except at one point. I do not want to repeat the reasons and arguments that several representatives of the majority of the committee have led to plazas. I should rather, in principle, justify the one we have in relation to the majority. When we set up the fairway certificate scheme, there was a minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV, who at that time said that one of the qualifications for obtaining a fairway certificate was to be that you mastered a Scandinavian language. We disagreed that English should be a criterion for obtaining a fairway certificate, not because English is not an excellent and also a worldwide language, but when you travel along the ladder in Norway, you should also be able to communicate with other vessels with which you communicate, not necessarily master English. Then it helps very little if you sail, with a fairway certificate, master English well. That was our reason, and it went on safety. I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have now clearly changed their mind on this, because I think this is safe to do. That's why we have one of these compared to the majority. In conclusion, I have looked at some of the proposals for actions from the Progress Party and the Right, which then have a minority position. There are not so many differences in the setting, but something surprises me a bit. What I might be most surprised at is that it's expanding the fairway ticket scheme. Then I wonder, how is it to be expanded? I assume that you have not intended to lower the qualifications requirements for those who are going to receive a fairway certificate, because it has to do with safety along the coast, and I assume that we agree that security is to be ensured. We don't implement the scheme and don't give people fairway certificates without being qualified to operate a ship along the coast. So my question is, what kind of extensions are you going to aim at here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e265	Our coast is considered one of the world's most difficult, both for navigation and for hostilities. Developments in maritime transport show volume increases in freight volumes themselves, as fleet structures change. As a result, goods are transported on ever larger vessels. Transport work related to oil transport by ship from the continental shelf to the mainland has increased by 163.4 pst. in the period 1990-1997. Several ships carry dangerous or impurising goods, and these ships have also increased on average. This requires greater room for manoeuvre, and the threat to the environment and pollution threat in Norwegian waters has increased significantly. The government points out in the message that this increase in traffic has not led to an increase in the number of accidents along our vulnerable coast. The left attaches great importance to road safety for crew, freight and the environment. The unbundling is one of several means of ensuring road safety. At the same time, however, there is also a need to focus on other measures such as the labelling of rentals, the drawing up of electronic maps and the improvement of the skills of crews in maritime transport. This has a comprehensive committee, but with different word usage, focused on the setting. The charging of lots has an impact on the competitive situation of maritime transport. It is therefore important that the loftesta be driven effectively. The Left is pleased that the Government of the State Budget for 2000 has prioritised the high quality of the Lostenest and that the safety of maritime traffic should be given priority. Increased demands for unloading have also added pressure on the bulk body. The left is therefore pleased that one has found room for multiple losaspirants. It is positive that a wide-ranging advisory selection is created for the Coastal Directorate. This is likely to improve communication between the directorate and the users. The Ministry of Fisheries is now in charge of the Coastal Commission's designation, NOU 1999: 5. The Government will facilitate a somewhat more in-depth review of the Organisation of the Lostene Services. The development of navigation systems using satellites and digital navigational charts, the establishment of traffic control centres for monitoring maritime traffic and the lostenest of their own use of new technologies can probably bring rationalisation gains. For the Left, security is the most important thing, and in order to achieve good security, we trust in coordination and increased cooperation between various public administrations working on maritime transport when it comes to both infrastructure development and preparedness to ensure safety along the coast. No less than five Councils and departments are partly responsible for this important area. This will also make better use of the comprehensive resources we currently use, both the economic resources and the human competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e292	I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the main elements that the evaluation has shown that there is a basis for follow-up. The pilotage service shall contribute to increasing the safety of maritime traffic along the coast. The aim of the discharge rules is to ensure that competent navigators are available at all times on ships operating on the waters along our long coast. On 23 December 1994, the Ministry of Fisheries laid down new rules on unemployment and on unemployment charges in accordance with the Act of 16 June 1989 No. 59 on the lay-off service, etc. The new legislation extended the obligation of unloading to Norwegian vessels and extended the geographical scope of the obligation to provide services. We also received a fairway certificate system, which aims to allow specially qualified navigators to sail in unobstructed waters without unloading on board. The changes to the unemployment benefit system also resulted in a new charging system. During the treatment of St.prp. No 3 for 1995-96, proposal for an increase in the rate of increase. 1066 Lostenesta, etc., asked the Stortinget Government to provide an assessment of the effects of the new rules during the spring of 1996. In May 1996, the Government issued a new deposit notice on the unloading service, St.meld. No 43 for 1995-96 Loose services and charges – a broad description. It was established here that, after the new legislation had worked less than a year, it did not have sufficient experience to provide a sustainable assessment at such an early stage. During the summer of 1998, it became clear that there would be cost excesses in the unloading service. In order to include the conditions that led to these exceedances, the Government considered it appropriate to postpone the evaluation until spring 1999. The evaluation that has been carried out so far shows that the pilot service maintains a high level of professionalism and that it performs its tasks in a way that is of great benefit to society. It can be noted that the development of the unloading service over time shows an improvement in the efficiency of the business and that the new provisions on the unloading obligation and the unloading charges have largely worked on the basis of the assumptions. However, the work on the evaluation has also shown that there is room to consider changes in the systems we now have. Some of these changes should be possible relatively quickly, while other issues will require more thorough investigations. Issues related to the external-domestic boundary, the use of exemptions and the identified problems related to navigators under training are already under consideration by the Ministry of Fisheries. This is otherwise in line with the comments of the majority in the vote. The Government also wants to ascertain the importance of the establishment of traffic centres, new navigation systems and the use of electronic navigational charts for the use of pilot services in general. In this context, the possibility of so-called remote unloading from the traffic centres will be assessed. In the case of the qualification scheme, it is important to carefully review the requirements for obtaining a certificate of qualification. In addition, the Ministry of Fisheries intends to review the administrative arrangements relating to the evidence of trade marks. There are particular problems with the unloading charges and the balance of the budget in the unloading service. Costs increases have led to more than desirable increases in the handling charges after we got the new system. This is due to several relationships. The system was new, and therefore there was no basis for experience to build on. The new system also coincided with the implementation of the 1969 Measurement Convention, which amended the basis for the calculation of fees. This is related to the calculation of the fees, inter alia. from the tonnage of the ship. In addition, there has been a growth in ship traffic without a corresponding increase in the revenues of pilot services. These aspects are further described in the evaluation. In particular, in 1998 there has been a significant increase in the operating costs of the pilot service, and this is linked to the increase in fixed wages for pilots and pilots. We are therefore facing challenges in order to achieve a budgetary balance without reducing the number of pilot fees for maritime traffic. The government intends to investigate any organisational changes in the unloading service. It would be natural to see this in the context of the follow-up to NOU 1999:5 The new Coastal Plant, which provides the basis for a review of the whole area of activity. We're dealing with these questions now. There was no time to answer any of the questions raised in the submissions, but I can assure you that the Government and the Ministry will go carefully through all the proposals and comments that have been made in the debate here, and will include them in the new investigations to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e320	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e323	We in the Progress Party are pleased that what is going on at sea is an agreement within the Committee. But it is incredibly important that the Council of State remembers the recordings he received during the debate and in the setting for the big message. For my own part, I would like to agree with that as, among other things, The representative from SV, Myrvoll, was involved, namely this with the language and highway no. 1, which the sea is, that it should be assessed. I believe, in fact, that communication is very important. And once we've seen the challenges we've had – not just at sea, but also at land and in the air – in terms of communication problems that go in language, we need to do what we can to ensure this; we need to evaluate and review the system in order to constantly improve security. We in the Progress Party have always stressed the importance of putting safety in the high-seat. Otherwise, it is a cross of thought that not all ships that travel along our coast are in as good a condition as Norwegian standards claim – and not all on board are as skilled. So here the Council of State must be on guard. Now that five different departments and five different state councils are responsible for safety along the coast, for the ships that travel on the sea, I think it's time for them to sit together and coordinate their work, so that we don't get situations where one doesn't take the full and the whole responsibility, but where one owes to the other, which we've got examples of. Safety at sea must be placed in the high-seat. Therefore, in the Progress Party, we see that the message we have for treatment today promises good for the future, and asks the Council of State to continue working on the recordings that have come across politically, from all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e338	I just want to make a little comment on the question of the so-called fragmented responsibility. Let me say it so that the formal, administrative responsibility lies with the Government as such. The fact that this can be divided into several departments is not unnatural. That there has been disagreement between the different departments and the agencies about who is responsible for what is unknown to me. I have also not seen that there have been cooperation problems here. I would say that we have everything to do with security under continuous assessment; we have under surveillance how the systems we have implemented work. With regard to the language question, the agencies have set up a system in which so-called hubs where traffic and water can be so difficult that it is important to ensure good communication between ships and in so far as traffic centres are concerned. Such a hub has been established in the most difficult areas of the Oslo entrance. And of course, in the light of the experience gained here, it will be assessed whether to continue this system to other difficult coastal areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e345	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-11.ana.ud1280e351	The cancellation then goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
