ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e54	The president of the Stortinget, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, and the representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Sverre Myrli, Anne Enger Lahnstein, Trond Helleland, Are Næss, Harald T. Nesvik and Ola Røtvej, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Hedmark County, Ida Marie Løvlien, has taken the seat. The representative of Ingvald Godal is informed that the granted permit application for days 18 and 19 May has been withdrawn. – This message is taken into account. Two permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the extension of the leave of the representative of Anders Hornslien to apply until 19 May 2004 from the Christian People's Party Group on the leave of the representative of Are Næss to participate in the fourth Nordic-Baltic Congress on infectious diseases under the auspices of the Nordic Council, in Tallinn, Estonia. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the province of Hordaland: Kurt-Arne Langeland For Oslo: Kai Ekanger
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e126	Kai Ekanger is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e131	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e136	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e141	Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Øyvind Korsberg are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e149	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning’s meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. For the sake of order, the President will point out that today is 16 May, and sees this in connection with what was just adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e163	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e177	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e189	We live in the middle of a media revolution. It touches us all – all the time. For the very oldest of us, the changes in the media are a reflection of the changes that have occurred in the whole of society. 50 years ago the television was not introduced, and we only had NRK's one radio channel – and it had a break at night. Our common Friday entertainment was hearing games with the gentlemen Dickie Dickens and Cox, while Rolf Kirkvaag from the Great Studio enchanted us all on Saturday night. We had about as many newspapers as we have today, and most newspapers had a clear party political affiliation. Broadcasting from other countries was only possible on a long-wave and medium-wave basis, and then with rather poor quality. There are many of us who made the first acquaintance with pop music through Radio Lux on Radionette's travel radio and later on at the Tandberg Silver Super. The cinemas were the foremost intermediary of imagery impulses from other countries, and the cinema search was high. Today, the NRK has two nationwide television channels, three nationwide radio channels, regional television and radio broadcasts and more specialised radio services. We have TV 2, P4, a large number of local radios and more than 25 local TV stations. In addition, over 650,000 Norwegian households have access to many foreign cable and satellite television stations. The number of newspapers remains high, but party political ties are largely lost, and local competition between newspapers is decreasing. The Nordics hold the position as one of the world's most newsreading people. People are still going to the movies, but the cinema search is getting lower. However, in the Nordic context, cinema is still high in this country. But it's not primarily Norwegian film we see. In 1999, Norwegian film had only a market share of about 9 pst. in cinema, and 10 Norwegians against 123 American films premiered. We're on our way into a media world characterized by digital technology. The media landscape in 2010 could be dramatically different from today, for example: because the analogue broadcasting networks we have today are likely to be switched off in many European countries. The globalisation and commercialisation of parts of the media will probably continue, and this is a development we in Norway cannot protect ourselves against or regulate away, if we wish. Our information collection will be largely online in the future, and new types of media will evolve, either as a merger between the media we know today, or through completely new media that we see today just the outlines of. This development provides an enormous increase in the individual's ability to access information, knowledge and entertainment, while at the same time giving more than previously an unprecedented opportunity to express oneself. Developments help to strengthen freedom of expression and information, but also face a number of challenges. The lack of media and digital technology will lead to the fragmentation of the public, and thus to the public debate and democratic process. At the same time, there is every reason to stress the uncertainty of development. The traditional television set may also be the central entertainment device in Norwegian living rooms in 2010. Not everyone will have the same opportunities to take advantage of the new technology, and we will be able to get new dividing lines in society. IT competence is unevenly distributed among the population. Young people, those with higher education and those with high income are today winners in the IT community. We must therefore strive for the possibility for all levels of the population to be trained and used in the new media regardless of sex, age and background. A nationwide infrastructure is needed to ensure that the entire population can benefit from the digital media community. Television is the most likely medium to face the main challenges of digitisation and globalisation. What place will public broadcasters have on the world of television in the future? Will these channels physically reach their audience, and will they be able to compete for the attention of the audience? And what will the content of these channels be? Will we drown in easier entertainment, or will there still be room for the deepening and for the reflection? Will the Anglo-American dominate, or will there still be room for programmes produced on the basis of Norwegian culture and social conditions? We can't give the answer, but this illustrates the challenges we're facing. The press is also facing significant challenges as a result of technological, economic and market developments, both in the short and long term. Will we in the future read our newspapers in digital form, or will the paper paper newspapers survive – perhaps in a different form from the one we know today? And what will today's unique local fish flora look like in the longer term? Film production is expensive, both in Europe and in Hollywood. The markets for films produced in European countries are largely limited to the domestic market. Most European countries are small language communities. This means that the performance of the vast majority of European films is much lower than the cost. Digitisation of parts of film production may reduce production costs slightly, but for the film sector, digital developments are primarily new opportunities through increased demand for content. It is important for me first to stress that the objectives of media policy are long-term, while the framework conditions for actors are constantly changing. Globalisation, technological development and changes in media markets are forces that are rapidly changing the framework conditions. This poses significant challenges for public media policy and requires rapid review of instruments and legislation. The government is focusing on exploiting the potential of the new media without undermining the democratic and cultural values. The main objective of the government in the media sector is to ensure freedom of expression and freedom of information. Media pluralism is an important prerequisite for the public debate on society and for the public to have the opportunity to be heard and to be heard. Owner concentration and unlucky alignment in the media sector should be limited. Another important objective is to preserve Norwegian language and culture. I would therefore like to underline the importance of content production based on Norwegian culture and Norwegian values. The government sees it as important to maintain a strong daily press and a powerful public broadcaster. The economic potential arising from the increasing international demand for media content needs to be exploited, both in the field of film and television production. The importance of the free position of the media cannot be overestimated. It is the government's goal that the media should have as much freedom as possible. The media themselves must be the main drivers for maintaining a high ethical level and for the realization of freedom of expression. They must also give the public real opportunity to participate in the public debate. The new information technology offers opportunities for the general woman and man, while at the same time placing great responsibility on the actors to maintain established ethical values. In order to ensure maximum freedom for the media, governance should be limited to what is strictly necessary in a democratic society. Digitalisation will dramatically increase the capacity of radio and television broadcasts in known and unknown media. The justification for detailed regulation and governance is likely to be weakened. However, through the market alone, we cannot achieve our media policy objectives. It is therefore necessary for society to use appropriate management tools. We must seek to avoid developments in which advertising and sponsorship funds completely control the programme profile and priorities of the public broadcasting channels. The government will ensure that the NRK remains licence-funded and free of advertising. Public broadcasters must strengthen the use of Norwegian and Sami languages, Norwegian culture and children's broadcasts. The newspapers are our oldest, but still the most important forum for information, exchange and debate on social issues. The existence of such public forums is a prerequisite for genuine freedom of expression and democratic participation. Often when a new medium has occurred, doomsday prophets have predicted the downfall of the newspapers. Now, after the breakthrough of the new electronic media, the prediction comes again. However, it is my firm belief that the newspapers will retain their importance in the foreseeable future. The government therefore wants to ensure that the daily paper retains its strong position in the Norwegian media image. Decisions are increasingly being taken with implications for Norwegian media and media policy in the international arena, and international cooperation is required. The Government attaches considerable importance to extensive and close cooperation within the framework of the EEA Agreement. Cooperation within the Council of Europe, in the copyright field through the UN Organisation WIPO and through ongoing negotiations within the World Trade Organisation, the WTO will also be pursued. Let me briefly explain some specific questions. In 1999, the interests of the three largest media companies grew slightly within the daily press. National and international developments show that the market is not sufficient to meet the social policy objectives in this area. Some regulation is therefore necessary. The ownership law, which has now worked for a decade, is a central media policy instrument. Ownership supervision has a statutory independence. The assessment of supervision is based on whether the ownership position of media enterprises affects freedom of expression in the relevant national, regional or local market. The scope of the law is limited to press and broadcasting. When Stortinget dealt with the matter in 1997, a majority of the Ministry of Culture asked the Ministry of Culture to make an ongoing assessment of developments in new media and to assess whether the law should also cover acquisitions of holdings in electronic media. The government believes it is now necessary to get ahead of this work, and I would ask the Ownership Authority to prepare a consideration of how this can be done. At the same time, the government will consider exemptions from the acquisition law of the media sector in order to avoid double regulation. The Government is also committed to repealing the specific rules on ownership in local broadcasting, P4 and TV2. The Ownership Act should be the only central set of rules in this area. The NRK, TV 2 and P4 are obliged to carry out their programme activities in accordance with the principles of public broadcasting. The task of the GSC is to advise the Ministry on compliance with the principles. Here I just want to present some main conclusions based on the 1999 report. I find that the three nationwide radio channels of the NRK together provide a satisfactory general broadcasting offer. However, an objection from the Swedish Broadcasting Council is that no broadcasts are offered in minority languages on the national network. The NRK's television offer also largely meets the public broadcasting requirements. However, the Council states that as long as the coverage of NRK2 is low in parts of the country, NRK must be cautious with extensive programme sharing between the two television channels. In the case of the new nostril section, the Council considers it to be too low in NRK1, P1 and P2. I'll bring this up with the NRK. In the view of the Council, the activities of the P4 are incompatible with the requirements which should apply to a public broadcaster. The Council shows here, among other things: to the lack of scope in the programme offer. The channel has now complied with the programme requirement in Sami, but the Council is not satisfied that the channel only has programmes for children on weekends. I have already asked for a statement from P4 on how to adapt programme policy to the requirements set out in the concession. TV 2 now seems to take its general broadcasting obligations somewhat more seriously. The children’s programmes have increased, as has the provision of the Sami population. However, the Council points out that there is still a need to strengthen several categories of programmes. The daily press has faced technological and market changes in recent years. This, together with the recent cuts in press support, has made it necessary to review the press policy objectives and instruments. I look forward with anticipation to the setting of the Daily Press Committee, which will come in a few days. Since its establishment in 1969, press support has helped to maintain the unique Norwegian newspaper pattern. I do not want to foreshadow the outcome of the treatment of the Daily Press Committee, but for the Government it is important to ensure the daily press framework conditions that enable it to fulfil its important societal task. The TV 2 concession expires in 2002. TV 2 has asked the Ministry of Culture for talks about an extended concession before the current concession expires. The current concession of the company does not guarantee renewal but indicates that ‘renewal will be normal’ under certain conditions. A recent question was raised as to whether the EEA Agreement imposes an obligation on us to publish the concession. I have gained legal expertise to look into this issue. The conclusion reached by these experts is that the non-discrimination principle of the EEA Agreement may imply that the State has an obligation to disclose the concession. After this, I have come to the conclusion that the concession should be published. I would like to stress that the State must not have taken a position on the TV 2 concession until March 2002. It is therefore time to carry out an open call-out process. I want to make sure that the concession is illuminated in the near future. The concession has had significant value for the owners of the company. It is therefore natural for the State to require the compensation of the company to hold the concession in the future. I imagine that such countermeasures happen in two ways. Firstly, the concessionaire must undertake to conduct its programme activities fully in line with the principles of public broadcasting. Secondly, concessionaires should undertake economic benefits to Norwegian television production which cannot be made on the premises of the market without delay. Towards the end of next year, the current local radio concession period expires. It is already necessary to start preparations for the next period. The Norwegian Local Radio Association has stated that the current concession period should be extended by three years. This is justified by the fact that the expected digital radio transition will create a great deal of turbulence for the whole sector. I do not think this is an appropriate solution. Currently, the development of digital radio is late, and it is uncertain whether the situation will be clearer in three years. In addition, I think it will be healthy for the industry that it is regularly arranged for new radios to be established. I would therefore ask the State Media Administration to announce a new concession round as soon as possible. My impression is that the current concession award principles are working properly, and we are not making any significant changes to the framework conditions. When the Stortinget dealt with the digital television message, the Ministry of Culture was asked to assess the feasibility of expanding any terrestrial network with at least three multiplexers. The postal and telecommunications authorities have now made it clear that this is possible. Local TV may be integrated into such a network. Recent analyses by the postal and telecommunications authorities show that there are also available analogue television frequencies, particularly in the West and North. I am determined that these should be put at the disposal of any lover after a publication process. At the same time, the NRK must be given the opportunity to extend the coverage of the NRK2. Norkring AS has signaled that they want to expand a digital ground with up to 80 pst. population coverage for own account and risk. I can't see that such a solution runs counter to Stortinget's processing of the digital TV message. I have set up this solution, provided that the NRK and TV 2 ensure satisfactory capacity. It will not be appropriate to close the analogue broadcasting networks until the entire population is able to receive digital television regardless of the technological platform. The Convergence Committee proposed, in its June 1999 investigation, an amended division of responsibilities between the telecommunications and broadcasting laws. According to the proposal, the telecommunications law is to be re-established as a law on distribution, while the broadcasting law should be a law that regulates the content of media services to a greater extent. In particular, the background to this proposal was that convergence is leading to a reduction in technical distinctions between different networks. This creates a need for a more comprehensive approach to regulation, by regulating networks under the Telecoms Act, while regulating content in other legislations, such as: the broadcasting law. I would like to highlight the importance of following up the convergence problem and exploiting the nutritional potential of this development. The government will come back to Stortinget with the matter. Furthermore, a review of the film and videogram law will be initiated with a view to developing a law adapted to the physical and electronic movement of videograms. An offensive investment in Norwegian film production will be central to the government in the future. We want a living and active production environment with open recruitment channels. The sector’s resource utilisation and performance needs to be strengthened. New measures should be considered to increase the number of quality productions rather than increase the share of State aid for each project. I want to encourage measures that promote equity and make the industry more attractive to private investment. Work on the conversion of the aid schemes and the management of the aid is extensive. The government is returning to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the 2001 budget proposal. The challenges of communication technology for our language and culture, we share with most other European countries and small countries. Here it is important to seek alliance partners and not least not to become self-sufficient. These include: through the interaction between their own and foreign cultures, the development of society and culture. Norway participates through the EEA Agreement in the EU MEDIA II programme. The programme ends this year and will be followed by MEDIA Plus. In view of the very good experience we have with MEDIA II, Norway should participate in MEDIA Plus. The question will be referred to the Stortinget once the negotiations have been completed. The increasing globalisation of the economy is very noticeable in the media market. Increasingly, media policy premises beyond the borders of the country. The government will work to achieve media policy objectives also in international forums. The main international decisions for the media are taken in the framework of the EEA Agreement. I will ensure that Norway participates as actively as possible in European forums and that Norwegian views are promoted towards the EU. The EU TV Directive, which is part of the EEA Agreement, sets certain frameworks for the regulation of the broadcasting sector by Member States. The main principle of the Directive is that the country receiving television broadcasts from other EEA countries cannot restrict their reception or their retransmission. However, certain exceptions generally apply, including: a country may refuse the retransmission of pornographic or violent programmes if they contravene the rules of the country of destination. However, the TV Directive does not allow a Member State to restrict the retransmission of alcohol advertising in TV broadcasts from another EEA country. To date, Norway has had a special derogation. A new derogation has now been negotiated to allow Norway to continue the ban on alcohol advertising in consignments addressed to Norway. In practice, this applies to alcohol advertising on TV3’s broadcasts to Norway. The new derogation was incorporated into the EEA Agreement by the EEA Committee on 31 March this year. As the new derogation does not weaken the possibility of continuing Norwegian alcohol policy and Norwegian rules in this area, this is a good result. The EU is in the process of implementing a comprehensive review of the rules on distribution networks for communications services. One of the starting points for this review is that the regulation of content is to be distinguished from the regulation of the distribution systems, as proposed by the Convergence Committee. In addition, the EU wants a comprehensive, technology-neutral regulatory framework. The background for this is that technical progress leads to more and more equalisation of networks. The regulation of distribution networks raises important issues of cultural policy. I am concerned that the telecommunications authorities in the EU will focus more on telecommunications policy and competition considerations than on cultural policy. The regulation of digital port guards, e.g. decoders and electronic application guides are one example of this being a too narrow approach. These gatekeepers act as an intermediary between the broadcasters and the individual viewer on digital television. I am concerned that those who control the gatekeepers will be able to take advantage of their position, for example. to weaken the access of public broadcasters to viewers. We should have legislation that ensures, as far as possible, open solutions for decoders. In any case, we must seek to ensure that Norwegian public broadcasters are not excluded from Norwegian viewers. I also believe that we should ensure that Norwegian public broadcasters are given a place on the first page of the electronic programme guides. If this does not happen, there is a clear risk of weakening the emergence of Norwegian public broadcasting, which will have clear negative cultural policy consequences. If the actors do not agree on this, I am prepared to make proposals quickly if necessary for regulation. Another example is the pressure on current broadcast frequencies. Within the EU, there are forces to ensure that frequencies should be subject to greater turnover based on the willingness of users to pay. I am afraid that the broadcasting sector may become the losing party in such bidding rounds. These examples illustrate that what is defined in the EU as a telecommunications policy also has important cultural policy aspects. The Government will ensure that cultural policy considerations in the field of telecommunications are also safeguarded. We are facing new rounds of negotiations on trade in services in the World Trade Organisation. The strategy for the negotiations in the audiovisual service sector is currently under way. I would first of all like to ensure that the quota provisions and support programmes for the sector can continue, including: also in line with Nordic and European cooperation. There are major cultural and media policy challenges arising from digitisation. As I have already mentioned, the digitisation of networks and the spread of broadband technologies, among others. lead to a dramatic increase in channel and media provision. In my view, the main and most important substantive challenges are: The increased demand for content to fill the new channels requires a conscious focus on audiovisual productions if we are to be able to maintain the objective of preserving Norwegian language and culture. The government is concerned with avoiding developments in which the wider television offer is reduced by mass-produced foreign entertainment and widespread use of repeat broadcasts. We are committed to prioritizing a stable, high-quality Norwegian content production. Public awareness of information and entertainment needs to be ensured through the media. It's now that we have to act to lay the groundwork for industry's opportunities in the next decade. I want to ensure that the focus on Norwegian-produced films and audiovisual productions continues through support and incentive schemes. However, there is a need for a comprehensive restructuring and more effective implementation of the aid schemes and their management. There are major challenges ahead of us. This is related to developments in Norway and internationally and to technological developments. We must be willing to recognise the need for rapid changes both in attitudes and in regulation. The Government seeks a media policy that gives operators the greatest possible responsibility and freedom, while limiting the regulation of the field to what is necessary to achieve important social and cultural objectives. In this way, we can equip ourselves to meet both known and unknown challenges in the media field, while ensuring the continuity of public media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e302	The President suggests that the statement be made to deal with a later meeting in Stortinget, and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e314	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers for each party group and members of the Government be set to 10 minutes and for the other speakers 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e321	There is reason to note that when Stortinget is now going to debate Norwegian development policy, we can see that the rise in Norwegian aid has never been higher. It shows a study that was published yesterday. Nine out of ten Nordics are positive to help poor countries. It is therefore both paradoxical and disappointing when the workers' party government is now increasingly turning the aid from the poor countries and spending more of it on the refugees here in Norway. Now, the Stoltenberg government repeats that it shares our goal of providing assistance of 1 pst. of GNI, and of course we are pleased about that. But such a goal has little value as long as the Workers' Party will not commit to a timetable for this increase. After the presentation of the revised national budget, we may understand why: 1 billion dollars of aid should be spent on refugees at home. It is a new record and therefore very suspicious. The use of commitment mandates will likely mitigate the problems that such conversion will entail. Some less bold formulations about this relationship than the Minister of Development chose in his presentation, I think would have been better today. But we will have to come back to this in the course of the review of the revised national budget. However, let me thank the Minister for a thorough presentation, which otherwise contains many important assessments and good points of view. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased to note that not only the main lines of the central government's development policy are continued, but also large parts of the ongoing and prepared measures are followed up by the workers' party government. Norway’s driving role in international debt settlements must be followed up with the further implementation of the debt plan. Poverty orientation, with continued main focus on Africa, is also continuing. The work on democracy building and the fight against corruption will also be followed up – all of this according to the Council of State, and that is well and good. However, there is a clear weakness when the obligatory plan for further stepping up assistance to the poorest countries is lacking. The work to promote human rights was a major concern of the central government. The appointment of a self-appointed human rights minister was a clear sign of this and contributed, together with the Action Plan on Human Rights, to raise human rights issues higher on the political agenda. Fortunately, this area will have plenty of opportunity to come back to through the Storting's treatment of the human rights plan for the autumn. Development assistance is per year. definition of human rights work, as also underlined by the Minister for Development here in the United Kingdom on a previous occasion. Respect for fundamental human rights is also an important prerequisite for achieving stable political and economic development in the cooperating countries. In this context, I would like to highlight the situation in Eritrea and Ethiopia. It is both sad and provocative when large amounts of money are spent on an irreconcilable war between these two countries, where the forces of intervention are also made up of children and young people, while millions of people in the same countries suffer from drought and famine. Unfortunately, these conditions are not unique. Large parts of Africa are in a deep political crisis today. This requires increased political attention from the international community. In any event, it will be important to prevent an unacceptable additional burden on the civilian population, as an innocent third party, as a result of any sanctions. ‘Budget plan against the year 2000’ was another major effort for the Bondevik government. This work, which was unique in the international context, contributed to other initiatives for debt relief and debt recovery, among others. from the United States, Canada, partly also from the United Kingdom and France. I noticed that the work for further indebtedness, both from Norway and in relation to international forums, was not included in the Minister of Development's ten-point list of main elements of development policy. That such a central element in the framework conditions for development in the poorest countries was not included in such a summary is strange, but it may have been a glitch, because the minister mentioned debt latency as an important matter. The orientation of poverty is and has been a guiding principle for Norwegian aid. The previous government had in this context a goal of that 50 pst. of Norwegian bilateral assistance in the long term would go to Africa. A growing proportion of this assistance has also gone to basic education and health. The Government has declared that the position of Africa in Norwegian aid should not be weakened and that the health and education objectives remain firm. This is the Christian People's Party satisfied with it. At the moment, perhaps the situation in Sierra Leone and Zimbabwe is in a special position, especially the situation in Zimbabwe requires a review of our assistance to this country. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the measures taken so far by the Government. But the situation requires careful follow-up. President Robert Mugabe's ludicrous and undemocratic policies, both domestic and foreign, are putting great pressure on the poorest people in the country. Of course, this is totally unacceptable. In this context, the Christian People's Party would stress the importance of combining the freezing of parts of land to land aid with an increased commitment to the construction of democracy and human rights in Zimbabwe. This work can be channelled beyond the economic and political apparatus of Mugabe by strengthening the popular democracy building in the country. It means more cooperation through voluntary organisations, church networks, political networks and trade unions. The role of non-governmental organisations and networks in Norwegian assistance is central. The Christian People's Party will underline the importance of the cooperation and contact between voluntary actors in Norway and the grassroots in civil society in our countries of cooperation. Evolution is created in this way by the people themselves, on their premises and where they live, in a completely different way from that state of state-aid provides opportunities. Neither state development cooperation nor industrial cooperation could replace non-governmental organisations and church network involvement in the poorest countries. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the Minister of Assistance clarifies that voluntary organisations will continue to play an important role in Norwegian aid. One of the most important aspects of aid cooperation must be better international coordination of all donor countries’ work in each co-operation country or region, in line with national development plans. Work in the recipient countries must be linked in order to maximise its impact. It is such a coordinated effort that can create the momentum for a breakthrough in the development of a country. In this context, the Christian People's Party will highlight the so-called World Bank CDF framework, the Comprehensive Development Framework. All foreign and domestic actors need to work together on a common long-term development strategy in each country in order to obtain assistance. The framework presupposes that the country's authorities are in the driver's seat and that the private sector as well as civil society are included in this cooperation. It is important that Norway remains a driver in this field. Development requires long-term and targeted efforts. In the poorest countries, a parallel structure of democracy, civil society, social structures and economic activity is needed to ensure sustainable development. This, of course, takes time. In such situations, measurable results may be unsatisfactory from an impatient ‘resource use’ perspective in Norway. A stronger performance orientation may be necessary. But this must not affect long-term cooperation where the development of periods can go too slow to immediately reap political legitimacy and gain. The enormous gap, economic and social, between the poor and the rich in the world is the greatest global challenge facing humanity. Norway is just a small country in the world, as the clothing message has been said. Nevertheless, Norway has been able to play an important role in international work for peace, human dignity and fair development. Norway’s lack of commitment to what the Christian People’s Party has chosen to call ‘value diplomacy’ has given us an important position and a great responsibility in the development of the world’s poorest. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) is looking forward to Norway coming with new, additional initiatives through the new government, and hopes that the government will continue the high profile of Norway as a value ambassador in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e352	Allow me first a comment on the post from Mr. Stone sneezing. I noticed a certain wound undertone in relation to an announcement of a clearly more obligating escalation plan in terms of the new government's aid policy, to 1 pst. of GNI. But also Mr. Stone sneezing must well acknowledge that it never came further than to reproach from the previous government in the case of such an obliging escalating plan. At least there was no reality in the budget, and it's probably also an experience that it's important for the Christian People's Party to take it further when they're now in the opposition role. Sir. Steensnæs indicated that the new government still has the line from the previous government. Then I have a question for Mr. Stone sneezing. It is a fact that there was a certain conflict between a majority in the Stortinget and the central government in the view of the binding/binding of Norwegian aid. Now the new Minister of Assistance says that a decoupling of Norwegian aid ‘must take place in the course of development in other countries’. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party has now changed its view of this, and that not we, just to uphold the principles, will create poorer opportunities for Norwegian business to participate in the aid work? I also have a question about Zimbabwe. Does it matter, sir? Steensnæs now said that one is satisfied that the new government maintains parts of the state for the state aid to Zimbabwe? Or does the Christian People's Party, like the Right, think it should stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e361	No, Siri Frost Sterri is not right. There were realities in the case of an obligatory escalation plan. In the last budget, the government presented an obliging escalation plan to bring Norway’s assistance to the poor countries, up to 1 pst. of GNI by 2005. But it's also true, and that's part of the story, that the government had significant problems with the original plan to get this done within the landfill period. So that's the deboning. The view of the Christian People's Party is still valid – and I think it is also a long way to go that is the view of the Workers' Party, which they may be able to clarify themselves. The binding must be seen in relation to the individual needs of the developing country. We do not want a policy that binds the aid in such a way that the primary genuine needs of the countries are subordinated to the needs of the Norwegian industry for the export of their goods and services. There's a difficult balance. We participated in a commitment similar to that of the EU in the Balkans. However, we are very critical of the type of commitment that Norwegian industry wants in terms of assistance to the poor countries. That position is still valid. In the case of Zimbabwe, the Christian People's Party is pleased with the review of this by the Labour Party Government. Clearly, on the part of the Storting, it is difficult to go into and assess which projects may be frozen pending another Mugabe policy, and which projects cannot be stopped because it will affect the innocent third party, and in particular the poorest part of the population, who need this help. But we are pleased that there is a clear attitude on the part of the Norwegian authorities, and that in this way we share in giving a strong signal. Hopefully, with that, together with other countries, we will contribute to a shift in Zimbabwe's policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e370	It is authorised to use aid for refugees in Norway, and so did workers' party governments a number of years ago. This led to enormous protests, including: by the representative of Steensnæs and his party. It was then understood that this was a principle, a model, from which that batch definitely distanced. And then the center government gets in place, and they multiply this amount. They spend an enormously higher amount on refugees here in Norway than previous governments had done. So it had nothing to do with principle. But now, when the center government is assembled in this hall again, the same lesson comes that this is reprehensible. It could be right if Steensnæs provided an explanation of the reasons for this attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e377	It is true that the central government has also used aid for ODA-approved refugee charges at home. It's also used 100 pst. the recovery of such expenditure in the ordinary budgetary procedure. But the center government never used 100 pst. coverage of a revised national budget to cover any additional expenditure. And that's it, along with the record amount, that makes me mark this as clearly as I've done. The Labour Party Government is now spending four times as much of these resources on expenditure in its own country. It's a problem, and I hope it's not a simple choice for the Workers' Party. I see that the Minister for Aid has been able to use the appropriations. It will probably ease the problem, but at the same time it will push the problem out on time, because the bill will be paid on a new budget. Then I also want to say that when someone then accepts the authorization, it says a little about how to evaluate the pressure in the budget. Because if this would lead to overheating, which has to be a reason for going to such cuts, then you wouldn't be able to allow authorizations. Because that means that the appropriations and the activity are going unabated, creating the same pressure in the economy. It doesn't do it here. I would also like to point out that by re-prioritising money use abroad – in the assisted countries – to money use at home, the problems that you really want to mitigate are exacerbated. Money usage here at home will mean a stronger pressure on the economy than if this money had been spent in the poor countries. Financially, it is also difficult to understand this record amount of aid used at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e386	I noticed the representative Steensnæs’ answer when it came to assistance to Zimbabwe, that he was pleased with what the Government has done. In my opinion, it's not going far enough. In my opinion, it is a way of getting too religious a relationship to help. If there is a country in which it is obvious that all state aid should be cut, it is Zimbabwe in my opinion. What we see in Zimbabwe, and what has happened there lately, is that opinion has become seriously aware of something that has happened over several years. Unfortunately, this is just the top of the iceberg, because there are similar phenomena in a number of countries around the world where Norway provides extensive assistance. And that is the double tragedy. I would like to ask the representative Steensnæs about the situation in South Africa, because today we experience some of the same things that we experience in Zimbabwe, namely that we have extensive killings of white farmers. And this is something that is said to be put into system. Some even claim that the country’s authorities are behind this, and that there is some form of ethnic cleansing going on there. So my question to the representative Steensnæs is: what is his assessment of what is going on in South Africa, and what, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, should Norway do to take any action against South Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e395	Day Danielsen describes my relationship with aid as religious. I don't know if I'm going to protest so much about it, because I think a lot of my commitment to aid and help to the poor countries jumps out of a belief that this is important to my Christian view of life. With regard to the day Danielsen thinks is an uncritical attitude to the situation in Zimbabwe and our help to that country, I am tempted to ask a counter-question: what are the projects that Day Danielsen has so detailed and good insight into that he dares to instruct the Government to stop this? I believe that it would be irresponsible if Stortinget should have a detailed opinion on each project. I am pleased that the Government has notified an opinion of the Zimbabwean authorities by freezing parts of this assistance. I am also pleased that the assessment appears to be based on the fact that innocent third parties will not suffer through the steps being taken, and that an applicant to avoid that the pure emergency aid and what benefits the individual poor will be affected by this, but rather the longer-term measures, in which the Zimbabwean authorities are obviously most interested. As far as the situation in South Africa is concerned, it may be difficult for me to reply in a short reply, but I believe that the development in South Africa has made the Progress Party wrong on all points in relation to the help that Norway has provided under the apartheid regime. With the help that Norway has given, we have helped South Africa to a democracy. That there are problems associated with such a transition, can't surprise anything, and I regret, of course, all the abuses made in the country. But we have authorities who take responsibility for this and who are working for it, and I think Norway's contribution should be involved and further strengthen both cooperation and trade relations with this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e405	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e408	As the representative Steensnæs said, there is a continuity, a context, in Norwegian development cooperation. What this government is proposing is a follow-up and a further development and renewal of the policy that the previous government was pursuing, in the same way that the previous government also followed up and developed it as the government before it provided. It is important to establish that there is such a context in Norwegian development policy, which contains both renewal and continuity. On the Labour Party side, we have, among other things, in the context of the last budget, underline the need for a continuous review of, inter alia, the effectiveness of Norwegian development cooperation and, if so, their achievement. Such distributions as this, and others, are, in our view, the appropriate means of reviewing such a renewal of development cooperation. I don't think that one should facilitate a new overall review that one had three or four years ago when we had a separate message about this, but that one should address the need for change in line with the experiences of a host, and the changing challenges one faces, in other words, not a wide Commission, but a dialogue, as it is now arranged, and as this distribution has also suggested, that one go into areas where one thinks there is a need for change, and where one addresses fundamental questions that need clarification, so that one can also have a little longer term of what is said in the outline and discussed in the Storting. Now I registered that Steensnæs had a small general examination of the revised national budget, but it is a different matter than the one on which this distribution goes. It is important, as stated in the distribution, that development cooperation is part of Norwegian foreign policy, and that development money is therefore also a travel agent in Norwegian foreign policy. But in other words, we cannot detach this area from general foreign policy, and this, of course, is also one of the reasons for the focus that both the distribution and no Steensnæs had on Africa. It is the case, as many have stated, that Africa is focused and focused on Norwegian development cooperation. We haven't gone into percentageing how much of the development cooperation, the volume, that's going to go to Africa, but it's important to keep Africa focused, because the problems there are special and poverty is widespread. But when we're going to focus on Africa, it's important that this is not only a discussion about volume in money, but also about a number of other measures in relation to cooperation with countries in Africa, especially south of the Sahara, which we have prioritised. I think it's important to normalize the relationship with Africa, not to develop it further as a pure aid relationship, but a more normal economic relationship as well. But in other words, trade will and must be an essential part of cooperation in this area as well. As the distribution underlines, conflict prevention and conflict management are currently perhaps the most acute problem in much of this continent. Therefore, this needs to be raised as one of the key points of cooperation with countries in this area. Whether conflicts are the product of poverty, or poverty is the product of conflict, in this context a little theoretical discussion becomes. The current situation is such that conflicts create poverty and hinder development. That's why it's important to prevent and resolve the conflicts that's going on, because as it looks now, the risk of further spreading is at least as great as the solution to the conflicts we're seeing. I'll show you. that we still get a signal of less good conditions, e.g. also between Zambia and Angola, to include an additional dimension in this. At least verbally, this is expressed. We will later have a debate on the role of the United Nations and the United Nations, and that is why I am not going to deal with it very much. But it is clear that this is a central point in terms of conflict prevention and conflict management also in Africa. But I'll leave it, because we'll come back to such a discussion in connection with the UN message. Needle help is, of course, a means we can use in conflict areas. But this is a relief, and therefore it's important that we are able to find other means in addition to this. This is also a comment on the holding of the Progress Party, which largely limits the use of money to emergency aid. Emergency aid can remedy a situation, but it can contribute to conflict resolution, conflict prevention or development. That's why there's a completely different agenda than the one that the other parties here have, where we want to spend money on development for self-help, but also because economic progress in this area will help us all. Zimbabwe has our names here. I shall not go further into it, but only support up on what has been said by the Minister for Zimbabwe. I would also like to make a strong reservation for myself or to distance myself from the production that we have now reclaimed here about Zimbabwe as a pure race conflict in a traditional sense between black and white so to speak. The same debt in so far as South Africa, and the advances we've had in Kenya lately, with the occupation of farms. This is a way by certain rulers to exploit a situation, a poor situation, in a country. One finds itself in external enemies, who are usually white, and who are often goods owners, to exploit the lack of capacity to carry out economic reforms, the lack of capacity to carry out land reforms. So using this to create an external enemy, but what's really going on is to prevent the opposition from emerging in these countries. It doesn't make the situation less serious. That makes it more serious, but that's also why the previous government is slowing down the activity in Zimbabwe. This government comes back with further reductions, because political and economic developments are so negative. This is something that has been going on for a long time. In my view, the last thing about occupations is something that has come closest to strengthening the image of an external enemy and consolidating its own power and to conceal what has happened to war exposure, for example. in the Congo, which then applies to Zimbabwe. At this point, I fully support what has been said in the distribution. I'm just going to confirm that what's said in the distribution is in line with what's formed from the Storting, that the Government is coming back to the Storing in an appropriate way, so that we can discuss the content of this. However, the main principle that business cooperation, value creation and democracy are closely linked is an important contribution to Norwegian development policy. We don't get development without focusing on this part as well. The question of binding/binding, which has arisen here, is of course part of this, but in reality it may not be that big. We want to move along with the international community, but we also want the international community to move faster. That's the basis of this. So the representative Steensnæs, as I said, has a small general examination of the revised national budget, and I'm just going to comment on a few points about this. It is not the case that this budget provides for a reduction in aid. It didn't say Steensnæs either. The percentage lies there as before, without it being so terribly important. Well, it's the content that counts all of these. Steensnæs does not like the record of the old government when it comes to using aid money in relation to Norwegian refugees being beaten. He should actually be happy that the unique record that the existing year's budget had is being beaten, because Steensnæs doesn't like this use of money, he just does it. It has, as has been said before, been a development which, as far as I understand, is quite formidable in 1998. NOK 400 million in 1999. NOK 600 million and this year. kr and now further. This can't be a principle. It's a question of a reasonable use of money, and that's the discussion you're going to have to do. I'm not saying this because it makes this use of money more sensible, but I'm just saying that one should take care of its own beam – and that discussion. There's a degree difference, but the principle we've all been a few about the last few years, except for one party, that's reserved for this, and that's SV. All the others have gone on this line. The same applies to the discussion on volume and percentage of GNI. In our opinion, the use of money is more important than the volume percentage. It is also the case that the previous government put forward a stepping-up plan, as it calls the commitment. In five years, of course then after the next election, this would shoot speed. But the reality is that in 1997 the volume percentage was 0.88 p.m., in 1998 it was 0.88 p.m. And in 1999, it was 0.88 p.m., and then we crawled up to 0.89 p.m. for this year, and it's going to be stuck. Then, of course, the Bondevik government can say that from next year this would really shoot speed. I had a feeling that Gudmund Restad was really talking about the whores after speeding up this after it had been silent in the years that have passed. I think it's still a little bit to show that this was something that a person really had as purpose, as long as one wasn't in the vicinity of implementing any of this in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e439	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e442	I have a comment to make to this representative Blankenborg about an external enemy in Zimbabwe. Of course, it is an essential point that in such situations, and in situations in general, one tries to provoke an external enemy and strengthen one's own uprising with the background in it. But the point must be that the outside enemy is there anyway, and Mugabe can play on the outside enemy regardless of whether Norway provides assistance to Zimbabwe or not. Then there was this representative of Blankenborg about the attitude of the Progress Party and this with emergency aid. What is the point of the Progress Party is that emergency aid is provided in a very special situation and is provided because circumstances are exceptionally difficult. What is also a point for us is that we have said that help should preferably go to local goods and services to stimulate the market, get real development and get the economy going in these countries. What is our main point is that the assistance given has been largely inefficient and has been directly counterproductive. Of course, we also see this moral foundation of helping people in need, of helping countries in need. However, does the representative of Blankenborg not agree that what must be crucial in terms of assistance is the impact of assistance? Does it work as intended? Is it to waste good money after bad? It must be crucial to assess the impact of the assistance, in my opinion, and I would like to have a comment from the representative of Blankenborg on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e449	Of course, it is the impact of the assistance that is important. But for one to measure the effect, one must also be in favour of an aid budget. It doesn't do if you have only emergency money. And there's a significant difference. Of course, it is important to buy locally where possible. It is also important to think regionally in a much larger context than one normally has in development cooperation, because the development of regional markets will be important for economic progress in an area. It helps little to bet on one country if one has black holes on all sides around. I think that's also a lesson that you can take with you, and that's why we also want to focus on the regional to a greater extent than what we've done. But I do not see that what has been said here about emergency aid as a substitute for general development cooperation has brought the debate somewhat to the fore. On the contrary. Naudhilfe is, as the representative Danielsen says, something that goes into an emergency situation, there is a limited development effect in this. But the challenge – perhaps we can have a dialogue – lies there when one passes from the pure aid and is going to be involved in developing the economy further after the crisis is over. Then there will also be a need for resources, and then there might be a discussion about what is necessary and what is development cooperation. At least it's clear that it might be in this transition that the biggest challenge lies, coming from pure sewing aid into saying self-storage and normal economic development. It's also pointed out in many contexts from both the government and the big business that this might be the weak point. That's where we're all looking for good answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e458	Let me first point out that Blankenborg's contributions confirm that when the central parties are going to find allies in this central hall in order to have a majority of aid policy, they must apply to the Workers' Party and SV, of course. It also emerged from the Minister of Development's presentation. I think I said in a proper way that I had a critical point. I would like to repeat the same critical point to Blankenborg, and this will not be a budget debate. I think we'll try to separate that. But Blankenborg said that it is the use of the money that is most important, not the volume. It seems to me that I need a closer clarification on the part of Blankenborg, for as the words fell, it was very unprotected. It was to confusion like what one hears from parties who have no assistance as any priority political area. That's what I thought the Workers' Party had. The Workers' Party's programme says that assistance should be stepped up to 1 pst. of GNI, and it's obviously about volume. I agree that it should be a reasonable use of the money. I do not want to weaken the impression that we are going to look critically at how the money is used. It should be frozen and re-disposaled where there is misuse of money, or where the money does not have the right effect. But there has to be a relationship with how much of one percent we spend here at home, and how much we spend out there. It is linked to poverty orientation. And the Minister of Assistance confirmed that it is an important part of the Labour Party's and Government's policy. The more we spend this money here at home compared to what we spend out, the less poverty-oriented the aid will be. I would like to challenge Blankenborg to clarify what he meant by his statement, whether it was the use of the money that was most important, not the volume.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e473	Because I knew that this line would come, I checked yesterday what I had said about this before every year – I believe for the last four or five years – about this. Except last year, this line has come from the Christian People's Party, possibly the Center Party, once we've discussed development cooperation. And we've said the exact same thing, that that's the purpose, that's the policy, that's the important, the volume is an instrument that we follow up with money to implement the policy we want. We've said this year after year, and we think it's a goal to get up to 1 pst. But that's not the main point. The main point is that in the process of this escalation, we are able to formulate a development policy that we are in favour of. And there's a bunch of changes going on in this arrangement, like, We now see this dilemma clearer than ever, the relationship between the many open, armed conflicts we also see in some countries of cooperation, and how we view this in bilateral development cooperation. There are typical questions that we have to discuss in the process, and then the annual budgets come later, where we put on toward this 1 pst. So I'm just confirming what the representative Steensnæs said, that basically there's a very broad deal about development cooperation, and where there's some roughness at the beginning, it turns out that one can discuss up to reasonable common positions, as one saw when one had a message about development cooperation some years ago in the Storting. I think that one of the next things we have to start discussing when we're going to have the fight against poverty as a headline, is if we now have the right instruments to do this. There is a discussion to which we are invited in later debates as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e482	I have a question in a completely different street than it has so far been asked, to the representative Blankenburg. When the Stoltenberg government joined, it proclaimed a new division of labour between the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Assistance. But I have to admit that it is still very unclear – and I have problems finding out – what boundaries have been drawn in the work of ministers in relation to aid policy. I noted the very clear emphasis of Blankenborg on the fact that development policy is part of foreign policy. Does this mean that, in the longer term, the Labour Party will provide all assistance under the Minister for Foreign Affairs to ensure that this is coherence and consistency?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e487	Just like that, Siri Frost Starri almost asks someone in the government about it. I haven't spent much time thinking about it, but the only thing I'm sure of is what I said about development is an essential part of Norwegian foreign policy. We do not have a foreign policy for the countries we support, and another for the other countries. This is collapsing. The only important thing, from my point of view, is that the Foreign Minister and the Development Councils mean the same thing. How they sort the budget chapters between themselves, I care much less. It gets them handled there, and I don't think it has that much to say either. But it is clear that if one were to take this to the extreme, as Siri Frost Sterri was about, that the Foreign Minister should have everything, then he was gone, we hadn't seen him here, so that's a purely practical question as well. There has to be a division of labour, and there will always be grey zones, but it has to be handled at all times. I don't think it's possible the way the Norwegian system is. in relation to Stortinget, a Council of State would be necessary in addition to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e495	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e498	The Secretary of State’s presentation on 9 May was made in a traditional way. It was based on war, disease and poverty in developing countries, and then to move on to how to improve the situation by means of grants via Norwegian u-help. It would have been natural to take on the enormous amounts that Norway has already granted over the years to the aid, and to assess to what extent it is likely that this money has contributed to the development we wanted. However, we did not hear anything about that. We understand why. It could have provoked a broad debate on the usefulness of Norwegian u-help. You don't want to. U-help shall continue to be a kind of moral imperative that has been deterred from utility and real evaluation shall appeal to the compassion and natural urge of the Norwegian people to help. The level of effort is still the percentage of GDP. A positive feature of this statement is that it states that the primary responsibility for improving the situation lies with developing countries themselves and that the role of development policy is to support the efforts of developing countries themselves. However, we did not get a detailed assessment of how developing countries have followed up our ideal objectives. In order to give a reasonable meaning to today's debate beyond traditional wishful thinking at the expense of Norwegian taxpayers, I will try to make a little contribution to this post. Let's take Ethiopia, which typically wasn't mentioned in the statement. The following information is from NTB's correspondent in Addis Ababa, published in the Evening Post on 2 May this year. Ethiopia and Eritrea, which are at war, are among the poorest countries in the world. Only in Ethiopia, half a million young children die every year of food shortages and diseases that could easily have been prevented. The war costs Ethiopia nearly $9 million. kr per. Today, but the Addis Ababa regime rejects any criticism of the precious warfare. Recently, the ambassador in Berlin was called home because Germany asked why the country buys weapons and not food. The authorities carry out large-scale construction projects in villages where the people are without food and water. Coastal Ethiopia refuses to accept emergency aid coming through Eritrean ports. The Ethiopian defence budget has more than tripled in the last two years, and a large part of the budget agrees to purchase military material from former Eastern bloc countries. In 1998, Ethiopia received a total of 201 million. kr from the Norwegian State. In 1999, the amount was reduced by 5 pst. The Ethiopian authorities insist on self-controlling the distribution of aid, so it is difficult to prevent anything from going wrong. Much finds the way to the front. Let's take a closer look at Sri Lanka, where the civil war has broken as long as we can remember. At the same time, Norway has contributed about One hundred million. kr annually in unhelp, the costs of the parties' warfare have only increased. I find it probable that it would not have been possible to wage such a long-standing and comprehensive war in Sri Lanka without generous contributions from the Norwegian Government and more or less voluntary contributions from Tamils who for some reason have invaded exactly Norway. We are constantly providing aid to Zimbabwe, where, in the interests of its private economic interests, the head of state has long waged war in the Congo, which, according to The Times of 13 April, costs Zimbabwe approx. Nine million. kr per. day(s) Two decades with Mugabe's one party state, Zimbabwe has changed from the agricultural paradise of southern Africa to a bankruptcy settlement, all the time with strong financial assistance from Norway. We could extend the sad list of, for example, Angola, which continues its 25-year-long civil war that is ruining the country. We can mention war in Rwanda, in the so-called Democratic Republic of Congo, in Sudan, in Sierra Leone, the conflict in Togo and the ongoing wars in Nigeria. The Minister of Aid has the right to state that poor governance is one of the main causes of poverty, that the main responsibility lies with developing countries themselves, and that wars brutalise societies. The problem, which unfortunately the Council of State does not go into more detail, is who we are aiming at when we talk about developing countries. Are they the peoples themselves, or are they the warring and often corrupt leaders of the countries? Who is it that we are doing so-called ‘unhelpful cooperation’ – are they the peoples or is it their ruling class? On this background, it appears that piety wants when the Government will place great emphasis on the fight against the enormous corruption. In Uganda, one third of those seeking health care have to pay bribes, and two thirds of those in need of police assistance have to pay under the table. Politicians and bureaucrats receive gifts from companies that compete for contracts. Aid is very much in the hands of the wealthy. The information comes from the Evening Post on 7 December 1999. How in the world is the Norwegian government going to prevent such corruption, no matter how much weight it puts on it? The problem is that unhelp itself helps to increase the possibilities of corruption because it is about money entering the developing world as gifts from outside. The money that is paid for the goods and services of the developing countries on the market is not so easily balanced. I almost have to laugh when the Council of State wants to contribute to journalism education in countries that have no independent press. Even more funny is that our Norwegian political parties could help strengthen the political structures of our countries of cooperation. The treatment of Gardermo by the former Labour Party Government may give new ideas to the regimes of the developing countries. As far as I can see, it is mainly some Northmen who have a clear and visible benefit from Norwegian u-help. This concerns our ever-increasing foreign representation, which feels flattered to represent a generous donor country. This applies to the comprehensive home and abroad non-assisted administration, and to non-governmental organisations which have as their livelihoods unhelped. In addition, Norwegian enterprises can enter into subsidized contracts in developing countries and therefore make money on the aid. Finally, it is political parties that appear to be morally high-ranking to the Norwegian people, who are totally ignorant of the pockets in which their tax money really ends. In reality, the Norwegian people are facing a very strong community of interests that deserves to be called the help lobby. The Council of State may not be aware of the foremost spokesman for this lobby.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e535	I would first of all like to stress that, as far as Ethiopia is concerned, and in so far as Eritrea is concerned, the Labour Party has, over the last few years, both from the Spokesman's Chair, in various positions, in the spontaneous Question Time and, in fact, at the latest in the budgetary position for the current year, where we were joined by the majority, mentioned Ethiopia as one of those countries where, depending on developments, there may be a need to turn the means of assistance that Norway has so far granted to the country into other channels, including regional or multilateral organisations. I would like to underline this. We have also said the same thing about Eritrea and Zimbabwe. The starting point for this is precisely what Gundersen's representative stresses, that we do not give aid to the ruling classes of the people or to those who rule, initially, but to the people who need it. Having said that, it is clear that to have a development strategy in an African country where there is a need for everything from conflict prevention, conflict resolution, democracy development, good governance, increased trade and business investment in addition to aid, one must also cooperate in some way with the authorities of that country, but in close cooperation with various actors that can contribute to such a development process. And I think maybe we need to increasingly recognise that it's this combination of different factors that can contribute to a development in Africa. It looks very gloomy today, and there's reason to look at Africa with anxiety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e540	I don't have so many comments on what Marit Nybakk said. The only thing is essentially her statement that it may be relevant ‘depending on development’ to turn the aid away from countries such as Ethiopia and Eritrea, and possibly Zimbabwe. I have to ask then: how is it really going to develop if you are going to take the consequence that you are going to stop using unhelp to the kind of regimes and countries where you no longer have an overview of where the money is going, and where it is quite obvious that any financial aid will contribute to their ability to wage war? That's always what you hear, you have to look at evolution. I think we've seen enough developments in what's already in place. I have never heard that there will be enough progress to really take the consequence that you cut out the u-help – but maybe it's a prestige team for those who have started it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e547	I actually don't think I've heard any representatives from the Progress Party give such a concentrated presentation of the party's view of aid policy as the one we now got in ten minutes by Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. I find it difficult to communicate in relation to the great distance I feel in terms of strategy, and two minutes can be scarce for Fridtjof Frank Gundersen to answer as well. But he is obviously right – and we are in agreement – that much of Norwegian aid policy requires critical review. We need to look at how the funds are managed, and follow the money more up to the end-user to make sure that they go for the right purpose. But the difference between the aid policy for which there is a majority, fortunately, in this big deal, and what Fridtjof Frank Gundersen now said, is that the Progress Party and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen draw the conclusion that it is no use – one must just stand out and let the people take care of themselves. One does not manage by aid to resolve neither corruption, violations of human rights, violations of freedom of expression, etc. There is no business going on without having to do it on their own. I would like to ask Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who at least believes in the private initiative and the private organizations, because he ridicules, among other things. proposals to contribute to the training of journalists in some developing countries: if these institutions are independent, if we produce non-governmental organisations that are willing to take responsibility here, is it not at least an instrument on which the Progress Party can spend money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e556	Yes, trying to develop independent and free private organisations in developing countries might not cost so much money. It's just a disappearing fraction of these u-country budgets that testify to enormous ambitions in managing money in remote countries under conditions you don't know, under completely different cultures, and where those who travel out have a completely different standard of living, a completely different way of life than the people they try to help. Of course, I don't want to ignore the fact that people with private initiative, who travel there for idealistic reasons, can do something on a more or less personal basis. But all these meetings, these international organizations that are going to work together and travel and write documents and reports that roam around – even if the purpose is good, I actually don't have any faith in the result. And I also think that when you look at developments in southern Africa, you can't find a better witness that this hasn't worked out. Of course, it could have been worse without, but there's not much to suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e561	It was a deeply pessimistic post the representative Gundersen held. Had he been representative of the positions in the area of aid, there might have been grounds for pessimism for several of us. He opened his post saying that he does not know anything about the results of Norwegian assistance. I think it is important to stress that the most important thing is that Gundersen does not know anything about the results of the assistance. I can inform you that most Norwegian aid projects are regularly evaluated. Readable evaluation reports are being prepared, and I would encourage Gundersen to read more evaluation reports on Norwegian assistance, and see that it actually benefits. Not thus said that everything has been successful and that there is no reason to ask critical questions, but we actually see that it is useful. For the Progress Party – to the extent that they point to solutions – it is trade. The Gundersen himself presented some examples of land where government and care are not like a wish. How does Gundersen think that the proceeds of trade will benefit the poor in these countries? What mechanisms will he put in place, and what mechanisms does he believe that can make him so sure that trade will immediately benefit the poor? The Gundersen felt it was quite comical that one would be investing in a critical press and supporting political movements and parties. I'd like to ask, what would Gundersen recommend? How to get corrupt, outrage, excessive military expenditure, etc. if not to support a critical press, civil society and the opposition in the countries mentioned by Gundersen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e575	In the case of critical presses in one Party, it is in the nature of the case that there cannot be a free press in a one Party State. Even more difficult, of course, to maintain a free press if the ruling regime knows that this free press is supported by people abroad who support those who criticize the regime, so I think it seems a little naive. In the case of trade, it is in the nature of the case that it will require employment. This, in turn, will lead to a natural increase in revenue — and I believe that revenues that are not transfers from other countries, gifts — will increase. It is also clear that the more efficient it is to produce the goods, the more of the added value will be to the workers. In this way, it will also be possible for some developing countries to tax income, as incomes will begin to reach the general population of the country. - This is completely elementary. The nice thing about trade is that incomes that come through trade are not as well suited to corruption as incomes that enter the country as gifts. Money from the outside has very little chance of knowing where ports — whether it does not simply lead to a greater class difference in these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e585	State councils are based in their presentation on the newsprint from Africa. Unfortunately, the ongoing conflict in Zimbabwe is no longer the only one that dominates the screen and the newspaper columns. The collapse of the negotiations between Ethiopia and Eritrea puts its war record on other parts of Africa. This conflict has already claimed tens of thousands of lives and intensified the famine in this part of Africa. In Sierra Leone, the situation is precarious and exposes the fact that the United Nations authority is also limited. It is certainly true that in the internal and intergovernmental conflicts in Africa, the poor are the losers. Conflicts are poverty-enhancing. Conflicts are at the same time a constant reminder of the underlying causes of poverty and the need to use development assistance in a balanced and effective way. It is a fundamental principle of Norwegian aid policy that the recipient is responsible for its own development. At the same time, it is our responsibility to provide aid for development and not for any political and economic development of the kind we have seen in Zimbabwe. The Mugabe phenomenon is a reminder that where corrupt regimes fight for survival, not only internal conflicts occur but entire regions are put at risk and thus also the fragile development opportunities that result from long-term development assistance. ‘The judgment is not abstract, it has its face and voice;’;» states the Council of State. I could be tempted to say that neither corruption nor disorder is. It also has face and voice. I therefore believe it is right that the Government – among other things. after pressure from the Right, the conclusion has been reached to freeze parts of the State to the State aid. Norway’s response is necessary. However, the question is whether it goes far enough. I remember that the Right in the aid debate last December put the search light on just Zimbabwe. On this occasion, the Labour Party called for the shift of aid from rural appropriations to regional allocations. Now, when the government freezes land to land-aid, we get a more appropriate response. However, if developments continue in the track they have made since the turn of the year, Norway should consider an even more stringent response. The government's signal to return to the next year's government budget with an assessment of whether Zimbabwe is still to be a priority co-operation country for Norway is becoming a too weak instrument. Right will encourage the Government not only to follow developments closely but also to choose the right means. On that basis, I am somewhat surprised at the suggestion of the Council of State that a political and economic collapse in Zimbabwe could have serious consequences for the whole of southern Africa. The question is, rather, whether this has not all happened, and that Norway should choose the sharpest means of response on this basis: complete stoppage of all aid to the country. It is not the government's management of the situation, as expressed by the Council of State, that is the cause of the crisis, but the Governing Board itself. In its other presentation, the Council of State sends important signals on a more varied aid policy. Particularly important is the signal of an offensive partnership between private businesses, authorities and non-governmental organisations. It has not been long since the Storting stressed the importance of developing a strategy for industrial development in the south. The aim of this initiative is precisely to facilitate business. But this, of course, works two ways. It is not only for industry to be conscious of its social responsibility, but also for the Norwegian authorities to know how to facilitate the Norwegian business community to play a greater role in Norwegian aid policy. The establishment of a joint arrangement with both tied and unbound assistance is a central instrument here, and the Government's assessment of mixed credits and parallel financing could contribute to strengthening the role of industry. It is positive that the Council of State signals the willingness to go beyond the previous Minister of Assistance on this point. On the right will follow the process for which the Council of State opens when, among other things, claims that the Government will work to improve conditions for private investment in Africa. The big debate on assistance resources in the Balkans has highlighted the need for a more flexible assistance system. Norway, as a contributor to this region, has locked itself to a system that does not follow the EU practice, where the use of tied assistance is more common. If Norwegian business is to enjoy a level playing field with European business, Norway must be more willing to pursue principles and facilitate greater flexibility. The inclusion of the EU by state councils as one of our many frameworks for the work towards a fairer world is therefore positive. Trade is another area where flexibility is a keyword. Norway is currently giving 0.22 pst. of GNI to the MUL countries, and in 1999 35 pst went on. of Norwegian assistance to these countries. At the same time, we see that the share of world trade in the MUL countries is reduced and today is only 0.5 pst. of total world trade. Africa is the hardest hit. Around 80 developing countries can today be characterised as marginalised in world trade. It's 35 pst. of the world’s population, and of almost all MUL countries. Right-wing memory of the December aid debate on the value of increased international trade and, in this context, showed Kofi Annan’s opinion on the value of increasing developing countries’ trading opportunities. Norway’s policy to increase the opportunities of developing countries in the WTO and to ensure an open and rules-based trading system is an important contribution. Here, Norway must ensure that there is consistency between our wishes on behalf of developing countries and the policies we ourselves pursue towards developing countries. I perceive the Council of State that she is aware of this consistency when she signals that Norway needs to take more account of the export products of particular importance to developing countries. The coordination and targeting of resources is an important signal of what should be the core of Norwegian development assistance. The objective of being a prominent nation in the field of poverty reduction must not overshadow requirements for achieving objectives and effective and flexible assistance. It is therefore gratifying that I took note of the aim of the Council of State to increase development aid in a ‘speed with the possibilities of using the funds effectively’. I understand this so that the Council of State will emphasize the achievement of the goal more than the numerical magic, and in that case the Right shares this priority and sees it as a positive signal in the direction of greater breadth. I would also assume that this implies a new distortion of the objective of the Workers' Party following the budgetary agreement with the central parties last year, when the importance of achieving one percentage of GNI was underlined. Norway has a good reputation as a solid contributor to aid. This is precisely why it is important for Norway to use this position to become a leading country in terms of the breadth of our assistance. A flexible aid policy is the best guarantee that our assistance will benefit them, who need it. This means that we also think new about traditional channels of assistance. The signal from the Council of State to revise the guidelines on support for non-governmental organisations points towards renewal. That's what we're in Right trailers of, it'll also serve the volunteer organizations. However, Norway’s assistance can improve. The OECD Development Committee, DAC, has pointed out that Norway can do more, including: to coordinate humanitarian aid and long-term development. The government has clearly taken note of this and has included it in the list of important priorities. This too we will follow closely from the Right, especially in view of the sharing of responsibilities between the Minister for Development and Foreign Affairs. The potential benefit of such sharing is freedom of action towards other regions, where Norwegian aid is currently not widely used. This may work positively provided that it also provides ground for long-term priorities and flexible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e620	‘Support is policy’, said the Minister for Development in summing up his statement on development policy. It is a statement that the whole Stortinget will be able to stand behind, regardless of the position on Norwegian aid policy. The many conflict areas that today characterise the news picture demonstrate with all possible clarity how development, foreign policy and efforts for peace and reconciliation are linked, and therefore need to be seen in the context. Zimbabwe, Sierra Leone, Ethiopia and Eritrea, Sri Lanka and Sudan: The situation in all these countries tells us that international efforts must be deployed across a broad field. In addition to the more traditional assistance, there is a need to focus on conflict resolution, democratic construction, education and disease control, action against corruption and predatory practices on nature and the environment, and in particular the safeguarding of human rights. This shows the extent and complexity of a complete aid policy. Faced with the suffering, the violence and the often pointless behaviour of the rulers in some of these countries, the situation may often seem so hopeless that one may be in the vanguard of giving the Progress Party justice. It's no use. One may be tempted to give up. The civilized part of the world is not allowed to do that. Assistance is about solidarity and about human dignity. We cannot ignore the bottomless distress and the tragedies that roll over the television screen every day. We must provide help, but we must also demand that democratic principles and human rights are respected in the recipient countries. And we have to show in concrete action that we are serious when we say that we will not accept that fundamental human rights are being trampled on. The situation in Zimbabwe has raised the question of how Norway should deal with co-operative countries which do not comply with elementary democratic principles and which do not respect the most fundamental human rights. Developments in Zimbabwe are tragic. In April this year, Zimbabwe could indicate that it was 20 years since it gained its independence. President Robert Mugabe himself was the symbol of the African liberation struggle. His leadership also led to believe that it was possible to bring the African countries up by the economic hemorrhage of most countries on this continent: the Civil War was over, the sanctions against the country were lifted, and during the first two years the economic growth was 28 p.m. Today the situation has turned completely upside down. The economy, the leader of the country, is referred to in international press as a despot who outlaws the judicial system and tacitly accepts violence against opposition politicians and white farmers. Most recent data suggest that Mugabe will reduce the white minority in the country — about 80000 persons – their citizenship, so that they cannot vote in the forthcoming elections. In 1998, Mugabe sent 6,000 soldiers into the Congo. According to The Economist, today there are 11,000 soldiers from Zimbabwe in the Congo, and the costs of this commitment are approximately bound up. one third of the country's total budget! Zimbabwe is one of Norway’s main co-operation countries. It's a commitment. Of course, Norway cannot accept that one of our most important aid countries is neglecting the legal system and tacitly accepting violence against and killing civilians. If, in addition, the white minority is deprived of its citizens’ rights, the situation is still serious. Against this background, it is important — and positive — that the Government has strongly protested against the authorities’ handling of the situation. The decision to freeze 20 million. The State aid to Zimbabwe is a clear signal that Norway is calling for democratic sensitivities and propriety in its aid policy. The main signal, however, is that Norway has made it clear to the Zimbabwean authorities that one will have to assess our continued aid exposure in the country if the country’s leadership does not adopt a different approach to democracy and human rights. The Minister for Development said that developments in Zimbabwe will be closely monitored and that the Government will come back in 2001 with an assessment of whether Zimbabwe should continue to have the status of a priority co-operation country for Norway. However, as the situation in Zimbabwe is now developing, there is reason to ask whether not five months is too long a time-frame for the assessment of such an important issue. The situation in Zimbabwe is very serious and can quickly develop in a dramatic direction unless Robert Mugabe uses his authority against earthlings and violent perpetrators. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it may be necessary to assess Norway’s position on Zimbabwe as a priority co-operative country before the Stortinget meets again for the autumn. What is now happening in Zimbabwe can contribute to a negative impact of people's attitudes towards Norwegian aid policy. If Norway hesitates to follow up the criticism of the authorities in the country with counter-truths that people will understand and respect, the tragedy in Zimbabwe could easily provide water on the mill for those forces that are already critical of Norwegian aid policy. The policy statement shows that the new government essentially wants to pursue the assistance policy of the central government. In particular, the statement shows that there is broad political support for the debt plan presented two years ago by the Minister for Development and finalised a year ago in the context of the 1999 budget. The debt plan for poor and crisis-affected developing countries is a follow-up to both the waxenåsen document and the comments from the centre parties and SV in the context of the assistance message addressed during the previous large-scale period. Last year’s report stressed the importance of the fight against corruption. Corruption undermines development, not only because important resources are lost, but also because it undermines democracy, cohesion and fair distribution of the values created. If a winner is to win the fight against corruption, coordination both nationally and internationally is required. Against this background, it is positive that the Minister of Development announces that the Government will build institutional capacity and promote interaction between different actors in the important fight against corruption. Corruption has in common with human rights violations that it contributes to disrupting development aid, with its consequences for the willingness of industrialised countries to provide assistance. The Minister for Development made his statement on Norwegian development aid three days before the government presented its revised budget for 2000. When a statement and the revised budget are next to each other, it is not easy to understand that it is the same government that is responsible for both of these documents. Cut in the 430-million aid framework. The debate has already taken place. Let me mention another example: in the statement, the Government says that the environmental management of developing countries needs to be strengthened and that it wants to ‘reinvigorate international cooperation on the environment and development’. Three days later, the Government is proposing a cut in the appropriations for, among other things. international climate and environmental measures and to precisely environmental and natural resource management. In a particularly difficult budgetary situation, one should not go too far. But I think the government would have insisted that there was a somewhat better match between the positive programme statements that the Minister of Development on behalf of the Government came on Tuesday, and the documents that the Minister of Finance presented on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e659	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e662	The representative Johan J. Jakobsen had a few reference points to provide assistance. He talked about solidarity and human dignity, and since it's May 17th tomorrow, this word is of course I can fully agree to, and as it is in its place to say in this context. But he also had a reference to the Progress Party, where he allows us to believe that it does not work. There I have to disagree with the representative Jakobsen. The point of the Progress Party is that it benefits. But what's crucial is what's useful, and we don't have faith in state aid. What we believe is this with market access and trade and the stimulation of business in developing countries. What is positive, and which is an example of its usefulness, is precisely the position of the developing countries themselves at this point, where there has been a significant turn in the last few years towards this with market access, that that is what matters, and not necessarily the violent state of state transfers that we are experiencing today. Market access will lead to long-term performance. I think the representative Jacobsen had a lot of positive in his post. I think it was particularly positive that he now paid attention to the fact that five months, including from the point of view of the Central Party, might be too long in terms of the situation in Zimbabwe. He also suggested that perhaps one should review this earlier, and before the Stortinget meets until the fall. I also think Johan J. Jakobsen's point, that giving help to such a despot regime is just undermining people's attitude to assistance in general, was very good, I've used it several times earlier in aid debates, also in Zimbabwe. I would like to conclude by asking the representative, Mr Jakobsen, a more fundamental question, as he has been concerned with the criteria that must be applied to stop aid: what criteria will the Central Party use to stop aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e676	It is possible that I was a little unprecise in my mention of the Progress Party. But when I used the term that the Progress Party believes that ‘it does not benefit’, it was actually based on the fact that it is the Norwegian aid policy that does not benefit. I understand that is what the representative Danielsen means, and that is also what I put in this wording. Then, of course, we just have to draw the conclusion that, with regard to the belief that the market is going to solve the problems of the developing countries, the representative Danielsen and I stand for quite different positions. I have no faith that entrusting development to the free play of market forces is the way to go. On the other hand, I very much agree with what Mr Danielsen said about market access for developing countries, as we have in Norway, for example. through the MUL system. It is interesting to note that some of the strongest objections raised to the WTO and WTO negotiations are just beginning to fear that the WTO system will bring developing countries into an even more difficult market situation than is the case today. I believe that a five-month observation period may prove to be too long. It is precisely because one is not going to get in the situation that Dag Danielsen and the Progress Party and others who are critical of Norwegian aid policy are going to get water on the mill and use it as an argument to push their policies further. There's something from the background that I mentioned this. As far as the criteria are concerned, I believe that one does not need any further criteria beyond what is happening in Zimbabwe today. I understood the Minister for Development that if this development does not stop, and if these abuses are not stopped, the criteria for reconsidering Zimbabwe's development aid are already met.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e687	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e690	There was a lot of positive in the Minister of Development's presentation. SV is pleased with the expressed willingness of the Council of State to increase assistance. However, such a declaration of intent is not so much worth it if it is not followed by practice. It was therefore disappointing when the aid sector was so heavily involved in the revised national budget. It might have been an advantage if the Minister of Development had taken a talk with the Minister of Finance before she made her presentation. It is hard to see when we have a budget that shows both the greatest profits of the times and the substantial cuts in the means of assistance. I am aware that the cut covers expenditure that has been approved as ODA funds, but the reality is that the government will take money from the poorest areas of the world to cover expenditure in Norway. When the main argument for a tight budget is that one should avoid pressures on the economy by excessive domestic consumption, there is no sense in getting rid of the aid sector either. The ECON analysis supported by the five major aid organisations also concludes that ‘the Norwegian economy’s balance sheet does not have to count heavily as an argument against increasing aid to developing countries’. The government stands firm by providing assistance in 1 pst. of GNI. I think there's a reason to ask if this is a real goal for the Government. What do you need to do to achieve this goal? When will be the right time, if not now? Is there a drastic reduction in GNI that needs to be achieved? Of course, there is no point in increasing aid appropriations unless the funds can be used in a sensible way, but it may not be the case that we have reached the ceiling. There is neither lack of tasks nor competence to escalate assistance, for example: in Africa, where the needs are enormous. The vaccination programme that the Government will support is a concrete example of how to address a concentrated problem area and put in concrete action. I am absolutely sure it is possible to use imagination and find several areas where one can increase the effort and escalate the assistance. SV supports the response to Zimbabwe. The country’s authorities have dealt with the difficult situation in an alarmingly poor way and are responsible for increasing political violence and repression. It was right to freeze part of the aid. But it was also right to protect the clearly poverty-oriented aid. The Right Party and the Progressive Party are committed to stronger reactions in the form of freezes of all aid to the country. Here, in my view, one has to look at what, at the seventh and at the last, will serve the goal of contributing to social development and democracy in Zimbabwe. There is no reason to believe that hitting the poorest even harder will create a positive development. In Zimbabwe, as in a number of other African countries, the AIDS epidemic has brought disastrous consequences. Not least, children are hit dramatically. 600,000 children are orphans. Several children now live on the streets, child labour is becoming more widespread, and more children are feeding on prostitution. The purpose of these children is only one of the reasons why it is vital to continue to provide assistance. In Zimbabwe, as in a number of other beneficiary countries for Norwegian aid, there is a need for political reforms that could result in redistribution between poor and rich, cut military spending, settlement with corruption and increased respect for human rights. If Norway wants to contribute to reforms, we must not withdraw support and stand on the sidelines but play an active role. Assistance to alleviate poverty and poverty must go hand in hand with support to civil society, to local voluntary organisations, trade unions and to free media. The Minister for Development placed great emphasis on assistance as a policy. This view shares SV. The presentation also referred to the role of the parties in the cooperation on assistance. And politics can also be aid. Several Norwegian parties already have contacts with parties in the south. SV has started cooperation with parties in Guatemala and El Salvador. Much of the cooperation is between local politicians in Norway and in these countries. Cooperation is of mutual benefit. Better provision should be made for Norwegian parties to be able to engage in the south. SV will encourage the Government to develop a strategy for this, clarifying the place of the parties in this type of assistance, and looking at which opportunities can be better exploited. It is also important to establish a financial framework allowing the parties to work on this in the long term. Better coordination of assistance was a theme of the presentation. There is no doubt that coordination is important. However, there may be errors when this requirement is made in relation to the fact that Norwegian organisations should coordinate, or be coordinated, as expressed by the Council of State. Most of the Norwegian aid organisations work through local partners. Requirements for Norwegian coordination organisations should not be at the expense of their work through local and international partners. This applies in particular to long-term assistance. Organisations work in different disciplines and sectors and across a wide range of cooperation organisations and institutions. This diversity is positive, and is a resource that Norway needs to take care of. Through cooperation with local partners, they contribute to local skills building and local anchoring of the assistance. We must not just think that Norway's efforts should be coordinated, but first and foremost assess the extent to which good coordination is taking place with the recipient. The Norwegian debt plan was a step in the right direction to resolve the debt crisis in many of the poor countries. SV believes that a should extend the scheme to include also seriously indebted middle-income countries. The size has also previously pointed out that a path to go could be to create a debt-exchange mechanism in which creditors can convert receivables into productive investments. I would like to hear from the Council of State whether any initiative has been taken for such a mechanism on the part of Norway. Another theme relating to overall economic framework conditions is the proposal for an international levy on foreign exchange trade. Such a charge may aim at slowing down the level of currency speculation, but also at providing funds for developmental measures. Will the Government take the initiative or support the launch of international efforts to impose such a charge? The Minister for Development concluded his presentation by ten points. SV has no problems supporting these ten points. But, as I said, it will be the practical policy of the Government that will be crucial to whether Norway conducts a good aid policy with our eyes. Finally, a comment on the Minister of Development’s final point in his presentation, the need to reach out with information on youth assistance. I want to show that very many young people actually get involved in North-South issues. Each harvest, thousands of young people participate in Operation Dagsverk. A number of youth organisations use state support schemes for youth exchanges with countries in the south. Even more will participate in such exchanges when the new Peace Corps is on its legs. Among other things, the Church's Emergency Aid and the Red Children have active and growing youth organisations. The International Debt Leasing Action ‘Jubilee 2000’ has engaged many young people in Norway through the ‘Aktion Delete U-land Debt’. Youth has also actively contributed to the Max Havelaar Fair Trade Scheme. Information is all right, but I want to give the Council a advice that I think might be even more effective: show young people that their commitment to increased assistance, debt cancellation and fair trade really benefits. If the government shows an even more wholehearted commitment in this area, I think the commitment will be contagious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e722	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e725	Lisbet Ruggtvedt had a good review of SV's assistance points, but in one area I was a bit in a hurry. It was when she almost decided not to have the coordination that has now been widely agreed in Stortinget for a long time, and that was confirmed at the latest in Innst. S. No 28 from 18 November last year. There, the entire Committee – all except the Advance Party – joined the World Bank’s so-called Comprehensive Development Framework, coordinating the arrangements of the various donors, organisations, state donors’ organisations, in each country. And it is clear that the objective of such coordination must be poverty orientation, development, and this also includes industry as an actor in a development process. I may have misunderstood Lisbet Rugtved a little, but she was almost like an echo of a hearing we had in the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday, and I have to ask almost the following questions: Does Lisbet Rugtvedt think that it is such that each private organisation should be doing development work in u-country almost completely regardless of what is going on around that organisation? I would like to stress that I do not believe that it is necessary to depart from its peculiarity as an organisation, because the various organisations have different ways of working on and different types of projects, but does the representative not see that it is necessary to look at assistance, trade and development in the context in order to achieve the poverty orientation that is our goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e732	It would be very stupid to be against coordination. Everyone should be in favour of coordination. What matters to me is that we get the right shades here in relation to the voluntary organisations, and that we do not coordinate at the expense of taking care of the specificities of the organisations, and respect the specificities of the organisations. I also think the organisations had good points on the hearing yesterday. I don't want to look like an echo of the organizations, but I think it's very important that we take care of their characteristics. An important point for organisations is also that coordination in Norway must not create difficulties in coordinating organisations with their international networks and organisations. Organisations tend to have international umbrella organisations to which they coordinate and have local organisations in the country to which they work. Norway must not then create problems for the possibility of coordinating within these networks, because they also represent useful coordination in each of their respective disciplines. Another important point is that Norway needs to look at the UN organisations and see how they can improve coordination. This is particularly true in emergency situations, where we see that the UN does not always contribute to that coordination, and that it is too slow before they put in place a proper device to coordinate. But as I said, I am not against coordination. Nor do I disagree that Norwegian organisations should coordinate themselves, but I think it is very important that a coordinator, based on the understanding of how the organisations work, and that one respects the specificities of the organisations, because I believe that this is an important resource for Norway. It is also necessary for organisations to live and grow, to be given the opportunity to cultivate their characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e741	I cannot help but understand that SV is now in breach of the policy they have been pursuing so far in the aid debate in this Chamber, the positions they have been in on the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the policy they are advocating. If it is to have any intention of coordinating in each beneficiary country in order to ensure development, to ensure poverty orientation, to ensure that society is gradually moving forward, then we just need to have cooperation between actors who play different roles but who are equally fully part of a development strategy that someone needs to address and in which someone needs to govern in some way. With regard to UN organisations, I agree that it is important that UN organisations coordinate. This is an important part of the reform work in the UN, where not least UNDP has taken responsibility for the UN Resident Coordinator role in many countries. But the United Nations system must also be integrated with other actors, because if they do not, if we do not get this coordination, what has been seen in Bosnia and elsewhere, eventually becomes the country almost governed by private aid organisations, and those organisations also brave society for qualified staff and competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e748	I don't think I'm breaking anything dramatically with what SV has done at this point. Should that be the case, I'll make sure to clean up that problem myself, and make sure that SV understands what I want, and that we have a common policy in this area. I believe, as I said, that we agree that coordination is important, but we need to look at where and at what level we need to coordinate. When Norwegian organisations cooperate with their international umbrella organisations, coordination between international umbrella organisations is often carried out. What matters to me is that, as I said, we get these shades. In general, I don't really think this disagreement is very deep, but I think maybe some of the understanding of how the volunteer organizations work is missing, as I have at least perceived it, and as the Minister of Development's statement also says, that the organisations have to be coordinated. I just want us to get these shades out, and it's going to be very clear that we respect the organisations' way of working, and that we respect that they have their networks and coordinate with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e755	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e759	The Minister of Assistance's statement shows that the Government wants to continue much of the aid policy of the Bondevik Government. This is good, because aid policy needs continuity and long-term sustainability. At the same time, since, after all, there is a policy we are pursuing, there is reason to point out, as many speakers have done, the small paradox last week when the revised national budget was presented and there was a certain distance between the actual follow-up and the words that have been said about it. This is a difficult budgetary situation. I will not exaggerate that situation, but try to base the morals that we must try to find fiscal instruments that do not limit our efforts towards the poorest countries. The objective of stepping up assistance to the poorest countries should be maintained. We are all aware that aid in no way is the full and complete answer to the challenges facing the poor part of the world. Globalisation is creating new opportunities, a lot of new opportunities. We are experiencing a great increase in wealth in some parts of the world, but at the same time, despite economic and technological developments, we have not been able to reduce the gap between the rich and the poorest countries. The debt crisis means that many countries do not have their own resources for new investment in social and development promotion measures. The poorest countries do not have the same access to what are the main drivers of economic development: new investments and market access. The left therefore lacked greater ambitions in the presentation on how Norway can contribute to real development in the poorest countries by facilitating the conditions for increased investment, debt relief and increased trade. Norway must be a driving force in order for the next round of negotiations in the WTO to effectively safeguard the interests of developing countries. Norway has to levy zero duty on LDC products and bind them in the WTO. Norway must also work for greater openness in the WTO, both to the outside world and to ensure greater internal democracy between Member States. Only in this way can the WTO be seen to promote fair international legislation. Norway also needs to go further in debt relief. Despite increased support among rich countries for the International Debt Lease Initiative, measures are long overdue before they are robust enough. Only four countries have been cleared up by the HIPC initiative so far. It is therefore important that the Norwegian debt plan of the Bondevik government be continued. In this work it is among other things. essential that the HIPC Trust Fund be strengthened financially in order to reduce the implementation time for debt cancellation. It is also necessary to increase the coordination of debt relief in order to improve the efficiency of implementation. Assistance is policy, both through support for actions to strengthen democracy and human rights, and because aid is a support to the existing regime. In a situation where daily conditions in Zimbabwe worsen, Norway must give clear signals that the management of this situation by the authorities is not acceptable. It is necessary for Norway to freeze parts of the State to the State aid to Zimbabwe. At the same time, the Left believes that the Minister for Aid should go further: clear signals must be given that Zimbabwe's status as a priority partner will end next year if there is no clear sign of improvement. The situation in Zimbabwe also underlines the need to focus more on Norwegian aid for democracy and human rights. Democracy is not a sufficient, but a necessary condition for ensuring human rights and a more socially equitable development. It is also an important prerequisite for economic development. Without a system of governance in which the population can throw its leaders at elections, there is no confidence in stable social and political development, which is once again necessary to ensure new investment and production. In this respect, I am pleased with the Minister for Aid's signals that a future will also support the main builders of a democratic system, the political parties and the structures of our countries of cooperation. The left is committed to strengthening the coordination of government donors' policies. The eagerness to plant their own country's flag on the land of another country has been unfortunately great. At the same time, however, it is necessary to distinguish between the assistance aimed at supporting state development plans and the assistance aimed at strengthening civil society. Much of the assistance from Norwegian non-governmental organisations is directed towards non-governmental organisations and thus towards building a pluralist society. This strengthens alternative solutions and democracy, and just such a social life that we are so proud of in Norway. Coordination must not be at the expense of pluralism.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e778	Not unexpectedly, this debate in Stortinget today focused on the brutality of Zimbabwe and on the bloody and senseless war between Eritrea and Ethiopia. We live in CNN's world. The CNN images of the large farms in Zimbabwe that are being set on fire, and child soldiers in a human slaughter of a trench war – while people around hunger and need food – are therefore shaking an entire world. Let me first point out that the Labour Party in the United Kingdom has over a long period of time put the spotlight both on the growing mismanagement in Zimbabwe and on Eritrea/Ethiopia, both in question-time issues, in posts, in budgetary remarks and several times directly vis-à-vis the previous Minister for Development. We've also been in the lead when it comes to providing alternative ways of channelling funds, for example. through the regional allocation and multilateral organisations if the situation in Eritrea, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia is to deteriorate, at the latest in the budget for the current year. I think it's directly wrong in these CNN times, which others have also been in, to produce the situation in Zimbabwe as the media is doing part of it now. The atrocities and abuses in Zimbabwe are not a black and white matter, I had almost said in a literal sense, where war veterans, who in brackets are marked too young to have been decommissioned soldiers before 1980, attack the great white farms. That's what Mugabe wants it to look like. It is the great black majority, the common people of Zimbabwe, who suffer from the undemocratic and corrupt regime of Mugabe. The democratic opposition, which is being crushed and terrorized, is actually led by a trade union leader. What this is all about, was it obvious when Mugabe sent his troops into the Congo to defend – what? Well, to defend the financial interests of their own family in the diamond industry. In Eritrea, after each despotic regime released in 1991, 500,000 refugees have refused to return from East Sudan because they belong to ‘error’ liberation movements. We have now worked on this from the Labour Party over a two-year period, for example. representatives of the refugees arrived in Norway with financial support from the U.D. But these are the forgotten refugees in Africa. Long-termity and predictability of aid transfers in order not to hit the poorest can be done through channels other than State aid, while at the same time politicising assistance. Long-term assistance must be a platform for political action. Aid must be political tools and viewed as an integral part of Norwegian foreign policy. In that context, we must dare to take up a discussion about Africa. We have to go into different ways, not just continue to clientise the continent. Solidarity can be defined as a willingness to distribute, so as to achieve freedom and equality between people. But it also means democratic rules of play and international driving rules for economic relations that ensure the development and value creation of individual societies, and that means active conflict resolution, conflict prevention and democratic development. It is necessary for individual aid actors to work within a comprehensive development strategy, and I will refer to the previous line round. It also applies to industry as an actor and to long-term industrial investment in developing countries. In the statement, the Council of State said: ‘It is about creating a common platform for development based on broad consultation between government, parliament, business and civil society’.» It is therefore also important to optimise the instruments for Norwegian establishments in order for them to have an effect. One-sided deboning may, for example: lead to a deterioration in the quality of working conditions, social standards and products by pushing the tenders far down. I am very pleased with the proposals of the Council of State on simpler business arrangements, including: an unbundled loan arrangement and a joint arrangement for tied and unbundled funds. This we will come back to later. But let me finally say that in this totality, we have to buy the goods that the developing world produces, as a result of the business investment we contribute. Then it's important for me to stress that in St.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000 now states that we are not introducing an auctioning principle for duty-free beef from MUL countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e802	Let me first give you a heart attack when I'm going to sum up this debate. It was earlier here today that Robert Mugabe's need for external enemies. And when summarising this debate, you can ask yourself whether, in the Norwegian aid debate, there is no need for the Progress Party as a kind of internal enemy, as the other parties can agree to oppose. At least it has the positive effect of looking more critically at the form of assistance, which will benefit the beneficiaries of the assistance at the end of the day, while also having the positive effect that Norwegian taxpayers will benefit – in my view. With regard to the Minister's presentation, I would like to begin with what I think is positive and exciting, and this is particularly about ensuring market access for developing countries, especially the least developed countries. The need to focus on better market access and general tariff reductions in the WTO and to take into account the export products of particular interest to developing countries, we in the Progress Party consider a very positive signal. We are very excited about the consequences this will have for practical policy by the Government. Will it, for example? have the effect that agricultural interests in Norway have to give up in some contexts? So I'm going to think about it, for example. on the dumping of Norwegian meat on the world market, to which Norwegian taxpayers are not close to access at the price level of the product concerned. Will this be followed up in practice? Then it was also mentioned in the debate earlier today that Storting's task is not to control projects in detail, and that is, of course, the Progress Party agrees. It is very important that Norway shows that we do not accept political disorder and that we do not share in extending the existence of despotisms by providing assistance to such countries where there are clear violations of human rights and so on. And a significant point here today, as Marit Nybakk was inside his post, is the CNN effect. A cross-point for me is that the Norwegian aid debate and Norwegian aid policy are partly governed by this CNN effect. We see that there has been a lot of media focus on Zimbabwe lately. Fortunately, all Norwegian parties are coming to the conclusion – I think – that something dramatic has to be done about what is happening down there, including freezing aid. It took time. You're late, but good. What I could imagine the Minister for Development also commented a little bit more on is what fundamental criteria underpin the Norwegian approach to assistance. When do you have to freeze the aid, and when do you have to stop it? We saw something of the same thing when India and Pakistan blew up an atomic bomb. Then the Progress Party raised questions as to whether the small aid that was left should not be stopped, because this was about countries that, after all, exploded nuclear bombs. Then we experienced some of the same things that we now experience with Zimbabwe. At first the other parties were very negative, but then after a while you went in to freeze parts of this aid. An important point is then: if those who are strong supporters also of state aid are to be able to maintain their legitimacy and accept this assistance, it is of interest to clarify the criteria to be used to determine when and how the assistance is to be frozen and, where appropriate, to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e813	I would first like to comment on something that has been discussed here today, namely the figures published yesterday by the Statistical Central Bureau – new and happy figures for the accession of aid to the Norwegian people. All 88 pst. are to provide assistance – higher have not been these figures since surveys started in 1972. Especially joyous is the fact that the youth population is up to 97 pst. These figures confirm that solidarity is strong in the Norwegian people, and that the steps taken to improve the quality of assistance have helped to strengthen confidence in and the integration of Norwegian aid. Every day, we are bombarded by radio, newspapers and television with images of war, conflict and bottomless despair. The most uplifting thing, I think, with the figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, is that they show how these images from a brutal reality engage to participation rather than deprive people of motivation and belief in the benefits of development. We are totally dependent on this commitment in our efforts to combat poverty, and – not least – we have a great responsibility to demonstrate that our efforts are beneficial. We all get lost when we see the bitter and tragic consequences of distress and misery, as in Sierra Leone. We have to make sure that young people in our rich part of the world, who get all the misery conveyed through the media, see that assistance and international efforts are beneficial, and thereby maintain their commitment to contributing to a better world. Few places are as visible the relationship between poverty and conflict as in Africa. We find armed conflicts in Sierra Leone, Congo, Eritrea/Ethiopia and Angola, to name a few countries. We must stop arms and help the poorest countries to build legitimate public institutions and civil society and a democracy in which conflicts can be resolved without violence. Conflict is a result of material and political poverty. That is why aid must also be political. We must work for a fair distribution – between continents, countries and people. Only in this way can we help to eliminate the causes of conflict and lay the basis for development. In many of the conflict-affected countries, vital efforts are being made to help heal the wounds caused by ethnic opposition and war. Schools are built, water pipes are repaired – this is an effort that is an emergency aid and at the same time provides the basis for people to continue living in their communities. Without this in place, the chances of peace and reconciliation between peoples are very small. It is in such a perspective that we need to see our own aid policy. We also need to be involved in preventing conflicts from occurring. Then we are totally dependent on traditional development cooperation. Some peacekeeping operations could probably have been prevented if assistance to countries had been increased before internal unrest developed into armed struggles. By contributing to economic development and political stability, development assistance can save people from severe suffering and provide a basis for long-term societal development. That is why poverty reduction and democratic development are the main objective of our assistance. Something more is required of us in the rich part of the world than that we contribute to the poorest. We also need to take a critical view of our own arrangements and remove the unfairness that benefits us more than being effective instruments in the fight against poverty. Our international commitment to decoupling aid is such an area. At the end of last week, I attended the annual summit of the OECD Development Committee – DAC – in Paris, and I think it must be allowed to be disappointed at the outcome of that meeting. Since 1964, the richest countries in the world have met annually to agree on the decommissioning of aid, and this time we did not reach our full goal, nor in terms of decoupling from the poorest countries. It is unreasonable that aid should be linked to conditions for the purchase of goods and services in the donor countries. It gives the donor countries the motivation to provide assistance that can benefit their own businesses — a motive that, in worst cases, leads to the poor getting a different and less effective help than they need the most. It can also easily undermine our own credibility when we call on developing countries to counter schemes that provide benefits to parts of their own businesses. More than ever, therefore, it is important that we step up our work on an international agreement to phase out aid. Interconnection of assistance internationally will also provide new opportunities for the competitive Norwegian industry and business. This weekend I also met my colleagues from Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom in the so-called Utstein group. Work on corruption was one of the most important issues on our common agenda. In a Joint Ministerial Declaration, we became, among other things, agree to coordinate our efforts against corruption, both in developing countries and in our own countries. Through the coordination of resources, knowledge and experience, we hope to make an effective contribution to this work. Development assistance is a political and complex tool. It is a great responsibility to ensure that assistance is used in the best possible way. Different aspects of Norwegian assistance are being continuously evaluated, and we are increasingly applying the aid more effectively and targetedly. I think it is important to establish this, also in the light of the discussion we have had here today. Support strategies for developing countries are developed not only nationally, but in an interaction between donor countries, international forums and non-governmental organisations. We meet regularly at international level, including: in the OECD, in the UN and in the World Bank, to discuss how assistance can be used as effectively as possible to reduce poverty. And the broad consensus that we can record today on the causes of poverty, and the instruments that should be used to reduce poverty also make international and Norwegian development aid more effective. But volume is also important. We all know that there is a need for much greater efforts on the part of the rich countries to ensure development in poor countries, and that is why the Government is firmly committed to the Labour Party programme and the goal of Norwegian assistance in 1 pst. of gross national income. We are also firmly committed to increasing the number of rich countries to this level. Today, only four countries meet the UN target of 0.7 pst. assistance shall be provided by gross national income. This is too low. I would also like to comment on developments in Zimbabwe and Norwegian actions, and just stress once again that we will follow developments closely and assess the development cooperation Norway has with Zimbabwe in the light of the current situation in that country. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that international debt work is also an important area of commitment for this government, and efforts are going on unrelentingly with unreserved strength. Not least, we are now very concerned about getting a proper funding of the so-called HIPC initiative, and that this should not be at the expense of other important international funding mechanisms such as: IDA, which finances important projects in poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e844	It has, both in this debate and in recent times, been a very strong focus on Zimbabwe and on the abuses that are taking place there. As you know, this government is also a member of the precautionary principle. I would like to draw your attention to the developments you see in South Africa where, among other things, it is. reports to international media about similar killings on farms in South Africa, as we see in Zimbabwe, and where it is also claimed from some teams that the authorities allow this to happen, or that they have a hand in doing so. I would like to have a comment on what Norway has done on that occasion, and what Norway will do in the future. This is already a major problem, and what policy action will the Government take here? Is it the CNN effect that makes this a topic of Norwegian political debate and a theme for this government, or will the government here take an independent initiative in what is happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e851	As I said, we are following developments in Zimbabwe closely, and not least we are following political developments throughout this region. And one of the most important reasons for the choice of measures we have taken towards Zimbabwe is precisely the development of other countries in this region. We are very concerned that, among other things, developments in Zimbabwe shall contribute to destabilisation in other countries as well. We keep in touch with other donor countries about developments in this area in general, and of course we will continue to have them. We also assess actions in other countries in the region in cooperation with other donor countries and through the dialogue we have in the multilateral system and the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e856	I do not have so many comments on the replies and additional comments of the Council of State itself today. I am pleased that she confirms to this extent what was already underlined in her presentation, and among other things. repeated that the Working Party is stuck on 1 pst. of GDP for aid. I would like to ask: is there going to be an obliging escalation plan, and will there be a time for when such a escalation is being carried out? Otherwise, I noticed in the statement that the Council of State confirmed and stressed that the prevention and settlement of war and violent conflict are absolutely necessary in the fight against poverty. It does largely justify Norway’s strong commitment to reconciliation and peace in various parts of the world, both in the Middle East, Colombia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and elsewhere. The unfortunate war in Eritrea/Ethiopia, also referred to by the Council of State in its presentation, shows in concrete terms how conflict affects the weakest and prevents development. The population suffers from drought and famine while the authorities use unimaginable resources to wage war against each other. Children and young people are also drawn into this warfare. The government said in its previous reply in a row that the government has attention to the whole situation in the region, and was nervous about the infection effect in Zimbabwe. We can see that there is already a crisis on the Horn of Africa between Eritrea/Ethiopia, and the Council of State said we have to stop the weapons. I would like to challenge the Council of State and ask: what has Norway done in this unfortunate conflict on the Horn of Africa?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e865	With regard to the first question from the representative Steensnæs concerning a binding recovery plan for the assistance, I would just like to report that the volume of the future assistance will allow us to come back to when dealing with the budget for the next year. With regard to the conflicts in these different countries, and not least in Eritrea/Ethiopia, I would like to make a little comment on the latter conflict. Indeed, war in this area comes in a particularly glaring light in the light of the ongoing famine in the area. We are following closely the further developments in these countries, and we are supporting the efforts of the United Nations and the United States to resolve the conflict. I would also like to say that it will not be possible to continue with normal aid cooperation without taking into account the huge resources involved in war and preparations for war in this area. The government has therefore proposed in the revised national budget reductions in the country programmes of 25 million. kr for each of these countries, and it is also clear that no new state of state agreements will be concluded until a peace agreement is reached. However, through the commitment mandates we have proposed in the revised national budget, we will have the opportunity to resume more normal assistance cooperation if the parties reach a peace agreement. I would also like to stress that large sums have already been made available for humanitarian aid in the region, particularly in Ethiopia, which has the most affected. We expect that there may be further measures, depending on the further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e872	Today’s debate has been marked by the situation in Africa, and it may not be so unnatural because of the conditions in several of these countries. I have to say, however, that it is a cross of thought for me that a party like the Advance Party, which does not want state aid, is so easily informed of the criticism we have, among other things. from the right, whether both the lack of reactions and — when reactions occur — the extent of these from the Norwegian side in relation to, inter alia, our state-of-state cooperation with Zimbabwe. From the Right, we have a completely different starting point for why we're concerned about this: that we're going to take responsibility for helping the poorest in the world. However, the principle that recipients are responsible for their own development must also be fundamental. And although we recognize that it is the Minister of Aid and her apparatus that is following developments from day to day and having an overview of what reaction possibilities may be right, we feel that the Council of State is reluctant when she announced in her statement last week that it is freezing parts of the state to the state-cooperation, and so nevertheless continues with some of the cooperation with the regime in Zimbabwe. She says herself that she is doing it to send a clear signal to the authorities of Zimbabwe, but is there any of what Mugabe is doing, suggesting that he takes these signals inwards and seriously? There is well now every reason to listen to the opposition, which the stronger and stronger begins to talk about the boycott of the forthcoming elections, a choice that the Minister of Aid long thought it would be possible to implement in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e879	With regard to the choice of instruments in relation to a country like Zimbabwe in the current situation, we have to note that it is a demanding task to find the right balance with regard to the instruments that should be implemented by us, and that is why we chose to send a wide-ranging delegation to the country to assist us in these assessments. The instruments we chose to use are in line with the recommendations of this delegation. We went a little further in relation to freezing parts of the state to the state-cooperation than the recommendations said. We thought that was right not least in relation to the need to ensure the legitimacy of the assistance in general here at home in our own opinion, but also because we believe it is an important signal in relation to Mugabe and his government. The government is now recording that the date of the parliamentary elections has been set, and we expect all parties to contribute to ending the political violence in the country. We are, as I said, very concerned about the situation. We must be able to see that during the preparations for this election, the opposition has been dealt with in a highly critical way, and the possibilities for a free and fair election are in view of this very small, to put it mildly. In the parliamentary elections there is a very large political violence in the country. 20 people must have been killed so far, while several hundred are victims of very serious assault. The vast majority of the victims are black political activists and agricultural workers. The Norwegian Government has therefore stated on several occasions that political violence is unacceptable, and we will continue to repeat this criticism of the regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e892	The Minister of Assistance repeated today that developments in Zimbabwe are serious and that one will keep a close eye on what is happening there and continuously assess responses in the light of how the situation will develop. In its statement last Tuesday, the Minister stated that the Government would come back to this issue in the context of the 2001 budget. In the Central Party, we are uncertain as to whether someone here does not grant too long a deadline, because what is now happening in Zimbabwe also means that the Norwegian authorities react quickly to what may be of serious abuse. If Norway hesitates to take up this criticism quickly, it will also easily have an impact on the national debate we have on development aid, because what is happening in Zimbabwe is very critical and helps to pursue Norwegian aid policy in the event of a failure to respond quickly and effectively. In my speech, I stated that one here should not allow so long – five months is quite a long time – and I would like to ask the Minister of Assistance if the Government is prepared to make an assessment of Zimbabwe’s status as a cooperating country in the past if this should be the case. I remember that Stortinget is still assembled in approx. One month, and that also during the summer holidays there are opportunities to consult the Storting in such a case, as I assume the Government will consult the Storting about. So my question is really whether the Minister of Assistance will grant himself or not and the Government will have a slightly greater room for action than what you could get from the statement on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e901	We do not intend to allow ourselves too long in the evaluation of this issue, and I fully agree with the representative Jacobsen's assessment on that point. We will, of course, come back to the Storing in an appropriate form, and the timing of this also needs to be kept under constant review in the light of the evolution of the situation in Zimbabwe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e906	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e909	I hope it is not premature to introduce other aspects than Zimbabwe into this debate. I want to draw attention to something completely different. Significant attention has been paid, at least in our forest areas, to the fact that the Minister for Aid has not at all mentioned the importance of the forest for Norwegian aid policy. Most recently in the forest report, treated as the Stortinget a year ago, this received a very broad focus. The size highlighted the recommendations of the ILO Forest Panel and the Convention on Biological Diversity in aid policy assessments. The size also said that environmental and natural resource management should be given high priority in Norwegian multilateral and bilateral assistance. Forest measures are central to this. The size also said that forest-related assistance should be targeted at work that builds on the development and implementation of integrated national forest programmes by beneficiary countries, including criteria and indicators covering both forest protection and sustainable use. The size of the forest notification highlighted the appropriateness of assigning a significant follow-up responsibility to the UN organisations dealing with forest issues to the international processes, and the Stortinget stressed the particular importance of supporting forest-related work in the FAO. A unanimous decision-making committee stressed the importance of setting up a separate international legally binding agreement on forests, under the conditions laid down in the notification. There are multifaceted business and environmental protection interests linked to forest management, globally and nationally. Therefore, a separate international agreement could help to clarify and balance international priorities and the development of a national forest policy. On the right, we stressed in the debate that it disappears annually from forest land, for example. in Africa, which corresponds to half of Norway’s forest area, and we underlined that wood accounts for about 75 pst. of all energy supplies in Africa. In this context, forests are also vital in developing countries for the conservation of soil and for the protection of drinking water. We were therefore careful to stress that, like the rest of the Stortinget, we supported the signals that had come from the then government to actively contribute to Nordic and international cooperation. I would also refer to the articles that have been in the press, especially in the nations, the last days on this issue. Director Tove Strand of the Directorate for Development Assistance has also stressed on several occasions that this is an important part of Norwegian aid policy, and it is important to promote their own sustainable development in developing countries themselves, which can remove them from this sad situation where they become passive beneficiaries without being able to develop their own business. Now I guess we get to be a little more loving to a relatively new government council the day before. So until the opposite is proven, I'm going to assume that this total lack of commitment in such an important area is not due to any desire to change the policy that was drawn up by the previous government and a total increase in the reporting of forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e926	Development policy had an important place in the Government's Declaration of Accession. Through development policy, we can work for democracy and human rights; we can work against sickness and poverty, corruption and crime. The Government will strengthen the Norwegian contribution, including: by actively entering the Global Alliance for Vaccination and Immunisation, called GAVI. GAVI assists poor countries in ensuring access to vaccine services for all, better use of existing vaccines and the development of new vaccines against diseases such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. Norway is estimated to be 10 million in the first place. kr to Gavi. The 2001 State budget will propose to make a greater contribution to this initiative. Development policy is also closely linked to conflict prevention and resolution. Today's debate has also confirmed this in many ways. Several African countries are in the midst of a development in which wars and violent conflicts prevent the fight against poverty. Zimbabwe is in a deep political, social and economic crisis, while continuing its controversial and costly military involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The extinguishment of the war between Ethiopia and Eritrea will undoubtedly exacerbate the humanitarian situation of a region that is already experiencing a major drought and famine. In this situation, we may experience humanitarian aid provided in the context of famines releasing funds used for war preparation and warfare. We must make clear that from a humanitarian point of view this is unacceptable. At the same time, our development policy measures must take into account the fact that victims in such situations will in any case need and require assistance. The situation on the Horn of Africa shows with all manner of clarity what dilemmas we all too often face in development policy. Since the conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea broke out two years ago, Norway has supported a number of initiatives to contribute to dialogue and to a peace settlement between the two countries. At the same time, we have seen need to reduce ordinary aid cooperation with both countries. Nevertheless, we have been able to continue the direct emergency aid to those affected by the ongoing famine. As a high-income country, Norway has a special obligation to provide assistance for the development and improvement of living conditions in poor countries. In line with the possibilities of using the funds effectively, the government's stated objective is to gradually escalate the assistance to 1 pst. of gross national income. It is also underlined in today's debate. With continued growth in the Norwegian economy, this means increasing appropriations for aid to the 2001 State budget. The estimate of expenditure on the stay of refugees in Norway has increased considerably since the 2000 budget was presented and dealt with here in the United Kingdom. In line with previous practice and in line with international standards in this field, called DAC, as is known, some such subsistence expenditure in Norway is the first year of ODA approval. Therefore, the revised national budget for the current year proposes to cover an additional total of 431.1 million. kr within the assistance framework. Originally, the Bondevik government proposed to cover 100 pst in the State budget for 2000. of the ODA-approved residence expenses, which were then estimated at 603 million. kr, within the aid budget. Now the estimate of these costs has increased to 998 million. kr. In addition, in order to maintain a high level of activity within the long-term assistance, the Government proposes new commitment mandates of a total of 400 million. kr. This is of particular importance for Norway’s main co-operation countries. The cooperation countries’ own strategies for combating poverty should be used as a basis for measures such as debt and other development cooperation. It is therefore important that the long-term objectives can be achieved through a significant increase in the framework of commitments and the mandates. The Government's Declaration of Accession and the statement by the Minister for Development point towards increased commitment to aid cooperation. Health and education shall be given priority as a contribution to poverty reduction. The government invites partnerships with industry, trade unions, research communities and other actors to achieve their development policy objectives. This can give development policy new and necessary commitment and active participation also from new forces in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e952	The debate has so far been marked by the conflict on the Horn of Africa and the unrest in Zimbabwe. This is not unnatural in the light of the media coverage of these conflicts. But as always, there are groups that don't simply attract the media searchlights, and there's one such group I'd like to associate some comments with. The Minister of Aid's presentation last week in Stortinget gave important signals in several areas. The Councils of State said, among other things:\t\t You ‘People with disabilities in developing countries are often among the poorest. Work to improve their situation is an important part of the work on poverty-orientation of assistance. The Government will therefore follow up Plan for the work of people with disabilities in the assistance.’» This is a right and important priority. Disabled persons and persons with developmental disabilities are often those who first fall outside poor societies. Creating quality of life for people with disabilities and developmental disabilities must be a top priority within Norwegian aid. Many Norwegian organisations, including Norwegian Association for the Development of Disabled, is currently providing assistance to support organisations for the development of disabled people in several countries. It is an important work done by these organisations to create an inclusive society for people with developmental disabilities. Norwegian assistance should in future focus precisely on these areas. Priority should be given to creating participation and involvement through democratic processes operated by organisations in different countries. The interests and participation of disabled persons and persons with disabilities in democratic processes must be promoted in the countries where Norway provides assistance. Work to include people with disabilities and developmental disabilities has continued for many years here in Norway. Similarly, it is now necessary to build up organisations in the Third World that have this objective, to include and contribute to the participation of people with development or disabilities. Many Norwegian organisations represent a significant competence in aid policy issues. It is important that this competence and experience are safeguarded by Norwegian assistance authorities. People working in non-developmental interest groups in Norway have insight and experience that it is important to disseminate to third-world organisations in a similar situation. Dissemination of this knowledge is an important element of aid work and therefore needs to be taken into account. Norwegian aid policy faces major challenges at the turn of the 21st century. People with disabilities and developmental disabilities are often the ones at the back of the line. It is therefore a great moral and political responsibility to lift these precisely in Norwegian aid policy. Combating poverty, which is one of the main areas of action for Norwegian development assistance, cannot be implemented if not all human fundamental rights are conscious. It is therefore necessary to include the rights of persons with disabilities in all forms of assistance, on the basis of which a part of the fight against poverty on which Norwegian aid policy is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e976	These days, Storting has sent out the smoothing message for managing. This message shows that the differences between people have increased in Norway from 1986. To fix it, the center management of that message had suggested a series of actions that would have seemed smoothing. Internationally, we are facing the same challenge. Differences between rich and poor countries only increase. This is largely due to deregulation without building up new governance mechanisms. The center management was very busy with this problem and took part. initiatives to establish a debt plan to eliminate the debt burden of the poorest countries. We worked hard to see that development aid would reach the poorest groups of people. Several initiatives were taken in the UN and in other international organisations. In particular, efforts must be made to establish a new common strategy for poverty reduction for the World Bank and the Monetary Fund. Active efforts have also been made to strengthen the direction of poverty in international assistance within the UN and the OECD. A major problem with which it has been difficult to get something done is to gain control of the free flow of capital. The fact that capital can move where it gives the largest return usually leads to that it does not end up in countries that really need capital for development. An important contribution to the raising of such capital would be the levying of certain capital movements. This fee could then be earmarked for development projects, the Tobin fee is a measure that has been discussed for some years. A more recent measure is the so-called currency transaction charges, which Canada has asked for. We're going to report this from the Center Party that we seem to be the rightmost looking interesting. So far, the Workers' Party government has not wanted to support this proposal. Perhaps this is because the EU has not yet positioned itself? I would urge the Labour Party to take its own initiative before the EU has clarified its positions. Taxing currency transactions would also create more stable economies around the world, because the cost of currency speculation would be too high for it to be interesting. Large currency fluctuations create big differences because large values change owners quickly. For countries that rely on imports, it becomes too expensive to obtain goods and services that are badly needed if the national currency has a drastic balance in value. It would therefore be very good aid policy to create financial structures that can reduce the risk of large currency fluctuations. And I hope the Minister for Development will take this with me. Tanzania, Benin and Ghana are countries that have a common debt to Norway. Tanzania is now allowed to be held indebted because it is to implement a poverty policy programme. It should also be done by Benin and Ghana, but these should not be cleared until they have gone through the international debt initiative, which can take up to three years. The Central Party will invite the Government to grant indebtedness to these countries as well from the time when the initiative was taken. This could be e.g. Notice when the Foreign Minister from Benin comes to Norway next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e993	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1007	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1021	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1026	Human trafficking is a growing, serious and very extensive problem of branching to most countries. The main way to tackle this problem is through mandatory international cooperation. This is why Stortinget has joined the Schengen cooperation and Norway's participation in international police cooperation. This is really the most effective way to combat human smuggling. It is important both for the matter and for our international credibility that we act in such a way that Norway does not become a loophole in the common European policy in this area. It is not easy to see what is meant by the present Document No. The 8th motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities is correct. The same applies to the lot comments in the setting we have for treatment. We already have laws in Norway to protect our borders against illegal immigration, and we have laws for the treatment of people who come to Norway to seek asylum. The way they come up with this is irrelevant. Everyone has a right to have the matter dealt with. An automatic expulsion will therefore be contrary both to Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act and to the 1951 Refugee Convention. If anyone disagrees with these laws, it should of course be suggested to change them. The denial of their existence, their application or their validity is not credible. Asylum seekers addressed to the Norwegian authorities are dealt with. We have to assume that people who are allowed to smuggle in and who are illegally staying in Norway without contacting the Norwegian authorities lack both a reason to apply for asylum and visas and other documents that provide the basis for a work permit. Such residence is already prohibited under the penal order in the Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, we have rules on the expulsion and expulsion of foreigners who have violated the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act. There is a broad political consensus that we should have strict restrictions on entry into Norway. That is why we are changing and adapting our legislation as needed, so that it is a most appropriate tool for Norwegian policy in this area. This was last done in connection with Ot. pp. No 56 for 1998-1999, where the Foreign Affairs Act was amended in connection with the Schengen acquis. The party of progress was part of the majority that supported the amendment. On these grounds, the majority of the Committee considers that the proposals in Document No: 8:31 are unnecessary, because the purpose behind the proposals is already covered in our legislation. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1043	There are currently no provisions in Norwegian criminal law that impose penalties on persons who are allowed to smuggle into Norway voluntarily and who are here as illegal immigrants. That is why this proposal should be topical. It is claimed that the proposals of the Progress Party are contrary to the Refugee Convention. That doesn't lead to correctness. All smuggled into Norway will have to come from one of our democratic neighbours. It is therefore not contrary to the first-country rule if these are automatically and immediately returned to the neighbouring country they first entered before they arrived in Norway. In the case of asylum seekers who have been refused their applications in our neighbouring countries and are therefore attempting to be smuggled into Norway, it will also not be contrary to the Refugee Convention to deal effectively, promptly and promptly with their applications and to introduce a practice whereby asylum seekers who have been rejected in other Schengen countries will also be refused their applications in Norway. When the Schengen Information System enters into force, a keystroke on a border computer will be sufficient to provide sufficient information to immediately reject the applications. I would therefore like to raise the proposal that the Progress Party has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1054	Sir. Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1064	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1099	Case No. 3 has no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1105	The President proposed that the statement by the Minister for Development on development policy, held at the meeting of the European Council on 9 May 2000, be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16.ana.ud848e1125	During the debate, Mr Simonsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
