ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e27	The following alternates have taken their seat: For the West-Agder province: Sigmund Kroslid For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For the Westfold province: Karin Lian The representative Annelise Höegh will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e44	On behalf of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Trond Helleland, Kristin Krohn Devold and myself, I am delighted to make a private proposal on the requirement of a certificate of good conduct for health professionals to protect children from contact with health professionals who are targeted, accused or convicted of sexual assault against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e49	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e52	On behalf of Per Roar Bredvold, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Lodve Solholm, Øyvind Korsberg, Inga Kvalbukt, Ivar Kristiansen, Jan Sahl, Steinar Bastesen and myself, I would like to propose a reduction in the licence fee for those who cannot take in the signals to see NRK2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e78	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik State Council Guro Fjellanger State Council Lars Peder Breck The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e97	I have a question for the Prime Minister. DnB reported on 28 February that the bank has purchased 10 pst. of the shares in the credit fund. The Bank does this in accordance with the Chairman's own statement to position itself. And this happens as the State Bank Investment Fund investigates different solutions to establish a strong Norwegian financial solution with national ownership. Political leadership in the Ministry of Finance has stated that the purchase was surprising, and it is further stated that it is considered not appropriate. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Is this not the expression that the Government has no control over what is going on, and is it really powerless?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e104	The answer to that question is no. The process of the future banking structure has been agreed between the Government Parties, the Government and the Workers' Party. When Stortinget dealt with the credit notification, the Minister of Finance explained the decision-making basis the Government wanted in view of the future banking and insurance structure in Norway. He explained to the Storting that he would ask the Bank Investment Fund to carry out an investigation as soon as possible, but also to use the time necessary for a sound decision-making basis. This was not contradicted by anyone in Stortinget as far as I can register, nor by the representative Hill-Marta Solberg. This race is laid. What the Norwegian Bank has done in relation to the Bank of Credit came surprisingly to many, including at the Ministry of Finance, but I would like to express and assure you that there will be no leads on what will be the government's perception of the structure of the financial market. We don't leave such a purchase to 9.98 pst. – as it is – by the Credit Bank governs the Government’s perception of what should be the future structure. I believe that it will not govern the Labour Party's attitude to the same. The working party has also not concluded, as far as I have registered from opinions anywhere, in relation to which structure the party considers the party to be the most appropriate. This has led the government parties to cooperate with the Workers' Party, and I expect the Workers' Party to stand by that cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e111	I thank you for the answer, but I must be allowed to say that it surprised me quite strongly that the way the government sees it, there is no problem that the structure changes while it is being investigated. The credit message was submitted in October, it was processed in Stortinget in good time before Christmas, and it was pointed out by the treatment that it was important that it did not take undue long. The Labour Party has after that time also asked for progress, precisely because we see things changing quickly. Then my question becomes: Has the government now taken any initiative to ensure that there is good progress, and is there a deadline set?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e116	I did not say that there was no problem that the Norwegian Bank has positioned itself, but I said that it will not be decisive, and it will not put any leadership in the Government's position on the structure of the financial market, and I am sure that it will not be for the Workers' Party either. The Bank Investment Fund has been made aware, through various contacts with the Ministry, that it is important that this decision-making base be established as soon as possible. But this is a big issue, and we also need to demand respect for the Bank Investment Fund's view that some time is needed to provide a proper basis for decision-making. The decision shall be taken as quickly as possible, but shall also be taken on the most appropriate basis. What the Norwegian Bank has now done has not been favourable in this situation, but it is not decisive and shall not lead to the Government’s position. I hope that I will not do that in the Workers' Party either. We have cooperated on this, and I expect the Workers' Party to support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e123	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e126	I think it is a pity that the Prime Minister does not look more seriously at this than that he will take an initiative in order to get a quick explanation of what Norwegian banking structure should look like. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Government has taken the initiative to clarify whether this has been acted on the basis of inside information. If this had been a private company, it would have turned upside down close to drawing such a conclusion. Here the state sits at all sides of the table, and at my discretion it only makes clear how hopeless it is when the state should have many roles and at the same time try to manage a ownership. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to explain a little bit more about his view of it and perhaps make a clearer deadline for when we can expect to finalise this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e131	I agree with the representative Siv Jensen that it is desirable – and I also said that in my two previous answers – with a clarification as soon as possible. This is the connection with the Bank Investment Fund. With regard to the absence of a specific deadline, the Minister of Finance has previously explained that it was considered that there could be adverse consequences for the work to be carried out. However, we expect that the position of the Bank Investment Fund will not now be so very far into the future, so that government and growth can handle this fairly quickly during the spring session. When it comes to the issue of possible insider dealing, we have, as well-known bodies in our country, to investigate and assess such issues, not least the credit supervision. I assume that they always do their job in such cases. We can, if it's reassuring, make sure they do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e139	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e142	Attempts to explore the Government's views on banking mergers and structural policies are a difficult job. The best characteristic I can find for the Prime Minister's answer so far is that the way is going – as a sort of guideline for the government's progress here. My question is: If it is that DnB's purchase was inappropriate, why would the owner not have given notice of this earlier, so that it could have been inappropriately prevented by the dominant owner of the Norwegian Bank? And question No. two: In the view of the Government, are there any limits to how far the Norwegian Bank can go in the influence of its competitor the Kreditkasse during this investigation process?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e147	As the representative Foss is well aware, the Ministry of Finance was not informed in advance of this purchase. It is also recognised that although the state is a partner in a bank, we do not go into the daily or weekly business decisions and report hypothetical issues that have not been addressed. As regards the extent to which the Norwegian Bank can influence it, it is known that the Norwegian Bank does not have the opportunity to purchase more than 10 pst. in the credit card. It sets a barrier, and in any case it will not be decisive for the Government’s view of the future structure of the financial market. I also think that Per Kristian Foss should be a little bit careful to say that it is impossible to find the views of the Government on this point. We expressed a position in the credit notification, namely that the two largest commercial banks should not be merged for the sake of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e154	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e157	The Prime Minister now confirms that the Ministry of Finance was not informed about the strategic purchase made by DnB in the Credit Fund. This directly intervenes in a process in which the Stortinget, the Government and the Bank Investment Fund are now in the middle of. It is quite obvious that DnB’s thoughts have been to distort the balance for the benefit of DnB — probably also with a long-term wish that there should be one commercial bank in Norway and not two, which is contrary to the signals that Stortinget has so far given. What's interesting is that DnB here actually makes such a strategic purchase without informing its owner. So the state owns 60 pst. in DnB – it is the totally dominant owner. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister believe that it is loyal to the owner to act in such a way? And has the Chairman of the Government's trust? Does the Prime Minister think that the government can continue after such an investment, which is obviously contrary to what the Government itself wanted?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e166	There's probably no doubt that DnB has done this to position itself. This does not mean, however, that it is crucial for the view that the political authorities will have in terms of the structure of the financial market. On the issue of merging the two largest commercial banks in Norway, the Government has expressed an opinion – contrary to what some claim that we have not done. Of course, I do not think it is lucky that this happens in such a phase and without the Ministry of Finance being briefed. But I think the representative of Djupedal will be fully in agreement with and aware that I am not answering his last question. I am not here to answer questions that have such consequences for the board or the board leader that Djupedal invites.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e175	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e178	The size has been said when it comes to structural policy and, of course, it stands by it. But now there is the initiative of the Government. Yesterday, the entire financial industry called for Hopland. But I feel here that it is important to ask for the Council of State for Restad. He now has to get on the track and say something about time and that we don't have a good time, until the whole structure takes care of itself without the political handling of this. It's not a desired cork from the Government's side, I assume, or from the Labour Party's side. That's why I want to repeat Hill-Marta's question about an initiative and a time when the government will come back with its recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e185	The president assumes that the representative meant Hill-Marta Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e188	That's what she meant for sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e193	I'm at least basing myself on it. The Minister of Finance does not need to be requested. The Ministry has contact with the Bank Investment Fund about this, without – as I have said several times before – setting a specific deadline. And that's the good reason why you don't do things that are so sensitive to the market as well. So the Bank Investment Fund has been made very aware that both the Government and the Storting want the decision base to come forward as soon as possible, while we cannot press the Bank Investment Fund to fail to provide it properly. That is how I expect the representative of Frøiland to agree that it should be. We're going to make sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e201	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e204	My question goes to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is well aware that the Right wants to use the gas resources for power generation in Norway — also because there are good environmental policies. European emissions are falling. I respect the fact that the Prime Minister has a different view of this. But now I see that there are so many recordings, plays and performances on the part of the government parties and so much activity in the scenes that I have to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister not really think that the Right should go towards an important point in his programme that we have been clear-cut over a longer period of time, when we now have the chance to have it adopted in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e213	I record that the Right has a different view on this issue, that they will go into a new century by investing in the technology of the last century, that they will increase pollution in Norway by at least 4-5 pst. in the case of CO2 emissions and hope that it will lead to reductions elsewhere. We could have an assurance of that if we had an allowance system in place. Nor does it have the right time to wait, so this is obviously not good environmental policy. It's enough to go a little backwards into the future not to bet on the modern technology that's under development. We don't agree on this. We have to respect that. Of course, it's up to the Right to decide what the Right wants. As far as I have understood Right before, the batch has gone in to change the pollution law in order to achieve its view that we are going to start with polluting gas power plants as soon as possible. This is, of course, a real procedure, because the Storting is the legislative authority. Now I understand that the Right has changed the strategy. They are not in favour of amending the pollution law, but are in favour of the Government converting a decision based on a decision of the professional body, namely State pollution control. One of Jan Petersen's predecessors, former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, has said very clearly what he thinks about, that he does not think it is particularly wise of a party that has often been the guardian of the constitution. It's going to be up to the right. In fact, I think that somehow it would have been more real if the Right had stood on what they were saying, namely, changing the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e220	The Prime Minister once again presents the misconceptions of environmental policy. As long as emissions go down, this is good environmental policy. But I record that the Prime Minister is now building a very significant height of fall, as a builder in Norwegian literature has done in the past. The problem with the Government’s attitude is that it accepts that Norway sells significant amounts of gas that release CO2. It's okay for the government to import electricity produced by highly polluting coal power. Yes, it is even accepted to buy back electricity from the gas sold from Norway. But producing the power here doesn't want the government to go in for. To be honest, is it not that the Prime Minister here simply has a double standard on environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e229	No, I don't. If we're going to bet on the environment, if we're going to bring down the CO2 emissions, we shouldn't start that process by strongly increasing it. There's no question of whether either building up or building down any height of fall, that's to say the same thing that we've been saying all along, and that I understand Jan Petersen seems to be the right way to pursue politics. I respect the fact that the Right has a different view, but unfortunately I don't think it leads to less pollution to build these gas power plants. At least I don't think one should have to be so hasty that one cannot wait for either a national quota system – which may not have to be more than a few years ahead – or a more environmentally friendly technology that becomes economic. There's no hectic activity in the corridors, as Petersen said, but we've openly invited the Right to join these proposals. The Right has said no to that, and we find that regrettable, but that is of course the Right's own choice. They themselves have opted for a different strategy than before, now they are no longer going to change the pollution law, but are going to reverse a decision taken by an administrative body.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e234	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e237	When the Prime Minister talks about gas power plants, he almost makes it sound like something sinful. Building gas power plants in Norway is almost morally reprehensible. At the same time, it's true, as Jan Petersen said, that you obviously think it's okay that we export most of the gas to Europe, let them fire up their gas power plants not only with today's, but also with yesterday's technology, and then we buy the power back. Is this a rash of the double morals of the center parties, or is it a logic that I didn't understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e242	When it comes to using strong terms, no one is going over the representative, Sanner. Double morals, sinful, morally reprehensible are terms that I have never taken in my mouth, until that I actually have too much respect for other parties and their position, but these are terms that Jan Tore Sanner has used and tried to push me. I think anyone can assess the level of that. As far as imports of force are concerned, it is quite right that we have imported a good deal of force in recent years. Seeing a 1990s as a whole, we've probably been a net exporter, in recent years we've been a net importer. Looking at the 1990s, energy has come from different sources, including coal. This does not mean that starting a strong pollution in Norway means that Denmark is shutting down its coal-fired power plants, on the contrary, one from the Danish team has said that it is not determined by what Norway is doing. In addition, they are building up wind and bioheats, so that our gas power plants can actually compete out of them as well. The SFT says that over time we are better served to wait and not build polluting gas power plants now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e249	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e252	The Energy and Environment Committee gave its opinion yesterday, and the despair of the Government and of SV is that the main perspective of the Energy Communication has become a struggle for pollution-free or traditional gas power plants, and not for the main thing, namely that Norway’s energy consumption is growing too much, and that alternative renewable energy must be used as a substitute for fossil energy. In the light of the position that has come, I would like to ask the Prime Minister two questions. To Stavanger Aftenblad on 7 October 1999, the Minister for the Environment said: ‘The construction of emission-free gas power plants needs to be assessed against renewable energy deployment. If this type of gas power plant competes with wind power or other renewable energy, there is no good solution.» Does the Government believe that the current situation is ex competition for other renewable energy sources, thus increasing pollution problems in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e264	The happy thing – to take it first – at the setting as far as I've been able to look at it after it was released last night, is that the government seems to have got broad support for the main lines of energy policy, such as. Considers a strong increase in energy saving and in the development of alternative, environmentally friendly energy sources, financed by an increased electricity charge – for today we have almost a record low electricity price in Norway – and this can also make sense in terms of energy consumption. So it's hard to give a total answer to what the setting in this way is bringing, whether there's a step forward in investing in more environmentally friendly energy technology – because there are elements in the setting that are wide open up, which implies such a bet. But it's clear that the majority of people put up to start with highly polluting gas power plants, in isolation, are not good environmental policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e270	Olav Akselsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e273	When the Prime Minister describes the plurality of this matter, I have to admit that I have a very difficult time getting to know myself. In fact, those who have been on the offensive and repeatedly have proposals for research to bring about new technology are the Labour Party and later the Right. In fact, the government has, at several conditions, prevented such research. by removing the Technology Fund, which was incorporated into the Labour Party's draft budget in 1997. In fact, the government party as late as in the fall of the committee was opposed to having comments that one should have more research in this area. So, in the last few years, the government is going to be at the bet that the Workers' Party has wanted all the time. We're happy, of course, but when you try to show it as if they're more offensive than the Labour Party and the Right have been in this area, it's impossible to recognize. It is actually so that nothing in this setting prevents neither the Government nor others from furthering their efforts to bring about new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e278	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time. There will probably be plenty of time next week [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e281	I think so, too. Now, Olav Akselsen is one of those who have turned the reel around in this matter; I understood it so that he was previously against highly polluting gas power plants, now he is probably the most eager one for. It's okay in and of itself, but I haven't seen any very reasonable explanation for that reverse operation. After all, I realize that there are nine members of the Workers' Group who are at the same position as they stood with the Axis before. If they are allowed to do so when it comes to voting, however, it seems more uncertain. I think the Axis should be a little careful to talk about who has been on the offensive when it comes to investing in alternative energy and for example. energy savings. I can refer here to a curve that Akselsen would like to take in more detail in view of the fact that the allocations to new renewable energy sources fell dramatically under the Labour Party regime from 1993 to 1996 – it was probably about the period Jens Stoltenberg was Minister of Energy, which is very interesting. In the case of the last harvest, the Labour Party and the Centre Parties agreed on the proposal for the 2000 budget. We have no problem with the comments made by the Workers' Party. The Minister of Energy said that she would give priority to these objectives in the allocation of the Workers' Party and the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e290	Well, let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e293	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a little basic question about the relationship between big business and government. Former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch wrote a very interesting article in Dagbladet last week, where he, as I interpreted it, decided with a broad pen that there is a great difference between ordinary deposit decisions à la type «The Great Government asks the Government to do something» and the decisions of the Grand Government that are constitutional and legally binding on the government. It is true that, in many cases, ordinary decisions are not legally binding in the same way and that a government has a high right to assess for itself the extent to which requests adopted by the Storting can be adapted to the Government’s work programme. Does the Prime Minister agree with the majority of the views expressed by former Prime Minister Willoch that the form of the ‘Size Asks Government’ is of a less serious nature, and in particular its less concrete nature such as that of a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e298	Yes, I think that former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has given consideration to this which is well worth studying for all parties, not least for his own. I have not thereby said how the Government will deal with the various proposals made in the position we received yesterday evening. We have to study those suggestions properly, use the time we have for it, and also look into the context of the comments. What is quite clear is that remarks are not constitutionally binding on a government, we have a long experience of that being agreed upon. Proposals are, of course, but it is right that Mr Hagen's representative states that proposals may also have different form and degree of commitment, but that they are binding, I will never doubt it. But the degree of binding will obviously depend on the design of the proposal, so we're going to take time to evaluate it properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e305	Let me first clarify a misunderstanding. I talked about a fundamental question, not about some attitude that should have been given yesterday. I interpret the Prime Minister as sharing some of these views. I would then like to go a little further on the more parliamentary governance system and ask whether the Prime Minister agrees that if a proposal that is relatively woolly and gives a job to the government without any kind of deadline is adopted, it will be quite common in parliamentary terms and use that the government itself steers its progress in that work. And if those who voted in favour of this decision were to be dissatisfied with the government's handling of it, it is within the parliamentary framework and use this majority who would then have to react in the event of replacing the government. So that as long as the government accepts a decision without any deadlines and anything concrete, the government may work on it as long as it wishes and until the majority of the population decides otherwise, if appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e312	Let me first allow me the remark that if Hagen wasn't thinking about any particular matter with his statements, I think he's about the only one who hasn't thought about a particular matter. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e317	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e320	Let me then draw in another particular case, namely the case of IT Fornebu, which raises many fundamental questions in the relationship between landfilling and government, and where it is expected that the bulk of the population, the Labour Party and the Advance Party, will specifically recommend a different developer of IT Fornebu than the Government has recommended for Stortinget. In these days, the Control and Constitutional Committee has three serious cases of ex-post exceedance. One is the extension of Gardermoen and Gardermobanen, the other is the extension of the Rikshospitalet, and the third is the extension of FATIMA – the mainland link to Nordkapp in Finnmark. The case of IT Fornebu raises quite major and important questions of principle regarding the responsibilities of the Government and the Storting. If I'm going to ask directly, the question is as follows: Is the government Bondevik prepared to take responsibility if the situation in five – ten years becomes a major scandal when it comes to the development of IT Fornebu by another developer than the Government recommended Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e326	I think it's hard, no matter what option is chosen at Fornebu, to say what will happen in five – ten years. And if Kristin Halvorsen was such to understand that the government of Bondevik has to take a stand for this in five – ten years, I see quite optimistically about the future, because then it is a relatively long-term perspective on this government's life. But from a little joke to more serious. We are clearly concerned about the alternative for which the majority of media have indicated that they will go in because, in our opinion, it does not give the state sufficient lasting influence through statutes and shareholder agreements. It may incur new costs to the government if it wishes to retain influence because of planned issues. The present value is very poor for this option, and on several other points it is the government recommended option, clearly better. As far as I know, the setting has not yet been given in this case – it does happen in a few hours – and I do not think it is right for me to pre-conclude on how we put ourselves in a case where the setting has not yet been issued. As usual, it's also going to happen in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e335	President, can I be allowed to clarify a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e340	That's no reason. Any misunderstanding may be brought to light on a later occasion, but not here. Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e345	I appreciate the fact that Prime Minister Bondevik is still reading Kåre Willoch. There he has a lot to learn. I would like to draw attention to one of Kåre Willoch's very firm thesis, the fact that the Stortinget is bound by decision, only by decision – no qualification of decisions other than that. But I do not understand this assumed modesty on the part of the Prime Minister. For example, he could. read your own articles in parallel cases. I would like to refer the Prime Minister to the speech by the Danish Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik in December 1988 on the Ring Medisinske Senter, where the representative Bondevik is arguing glaringly well in order to review an administrative decision taken by the government, precisely because it is an expression of a fundamentally different attitude between the bulk of the population and the government at the time. I think it has very good parallels. And referring to the current literature, I think the Prime Minister will also find in the recent position on the gas power issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e352	I have read what I have said myself about these matters, and I have no problem with that. Both in the Ring case and in the Mesnali case, which I see has been used in the debate, there are some parallels and there is something that is not parallel, among other things. because those institutions had received prior commitments that they had reason to believe would give an approval. That's why I actually see something different than in cases where such pre-commitments are not given, as it is not in the case of the gas power plant. On the contrary, a decision has been made here on specific emission requirements that the bulk of the population will now interfere with and transform. Otherwise, it is true that the Storting has no clear historical practice on such issues. It's always up to the Storing finally to determine how far we're going into the government's decision. As for Kåre Willoch, I have actually learned a lot from him both when I had the joy of sitting in his government, and before and after that time. It seems that the Right increasingly has something to learn from Kåre Willoch, not least the way they commented on his last principal, insightful article.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e361	Tom Thoresen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e364	In these days, it is unduly difficult to ask fundamental questions about the relationship between magnification and government without having a particular case in mind. I understand the Prime Minister's last answer now so that the Prime Minister does not in itself affect the right of the Grand Duchy to take decisions that express the will of the Grand Duchy, but I want to ask the Prime Minister whether it is not such that it is useful for a government in general – and perhaps for a minority government in particular – to consult with the Storting before making important decisions, to be sure that there is a reasonable backing in the Grand Duchy. It is not undermining the Government’s right of initiative, but it is doubtful that the Government’s own decisions have a safer foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e369	First to what Stortinget has the right to. Yes, as the body that will ultimately have the power of political exercise – in a ba-lancing with the executive, namely the government – the Stortinget has the right to define for itself where the border is going, I agree with the representative of Thoresen in that. I have sometimes said a little ghostly that if the Storting will decide that there should not be a single tier in my office, of course Stortinget has the right to make such a decision. But then we come to the crucial question that Grand President Kolle Grondahl raised an interesting debate about: No matter what the Greatness has the right to, it's a question of what the Greatness should do in relation to the balance of power between government and greatness. And that's where I have a perception that I'll probably stress Kolle Grondahl's warning, also into the current political situation. In the case of consultation: yes, it is useful to consult. There have also been contacts between the Minister of Environmental Protection, the Minister of Oil and Energy and the then head of the Energy Committee, Jens Stoltenberg, in this case, and after the decision had been made, Stoltenberg expressed himself in a way that could be seen as reasonably satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e378	The President has now consulted the clock and stated that the time has passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e381	Then I respect it, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e386	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e390	I have a question to the Council of State Fields, who, unlike the Prime Minister, might want to answer my question. In the debate on the availability of gas power plants with the best available technology, such as: Natural force has applied, rarely hears what opponents are for. Both the energy distribution and the government's own energy message show that we use more electricity than we produce in a normal year. This footprint will grow in the years to come. I'm not sure anyone wants to turn off the stream. In other words, the resistors of gas power plants will cover this footprint with highly impurityful imports. In NVE's concession to Naturkraft AS it's called: ‘If gas power is introduced, the immediate effect will be that... an equal production of coal and oil power will pass out. The environmental impact of this is roughly halved by CO2 emissions.» SFT and SINTEF are some of these. In other words, there will be more impurity if you say no to the construction of a gas power plant than if you say yes. I'd like to ask the Norwegian Government if there's a professional body in Norway that claims that the total emissions will rise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e408	It does. Among other things, SFT has clearly stated in its documents that the most environmentally friendly option will be to expect the development of more environmentally friendly gas technology up to ten years in order to build gas power stations with more environmentally friendly technology and import coal power in the meantime, and that it will come out plus in the accounts. With regard to the other investigations referred to, there is a consistent omission to draw attention to the assumptions made, and there are two. One is that you don't get to eat up the gas in increased consumption, but you get into a market where the consumption doesn't increase. The other extremely important assumption that is always made is that one must have guarantees that this will replace more polluting power, for example. coal power. And to take a simple picture: there may be good environmental arguments to buy a more modern and environmentally friendly car if you're sure that what you're replacing is an old car with larger emissions, but if what you're replacing is a bike, it's not more environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e415	The Labour Party has not yet begun to work on this matter. But what's the case, is that the government's main wager in the energy message they've submitted to the Storting, is increasing imports of highly impurising force. The working party may refer to a number of trade unions in Norway that claim that emissions will decrease if a gas power plant is now built and replaces some of the imports it has. In my view, SFT has said the same thing. Calculations have also been submitted to the Committee showing that until a quota system is in place, construction of gas power plants in Norway will be beneficial because one will then phase out or reduce the production of coal power in other countries. So I want to turn the question and ask it like this: is it that NVE, SINTEF and other professional bodies that claim that CO2 emissions go down are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e424	Let me first say that I have registered that there is disagreement in these professional environments, and at the latest today, Sintef's senior researcher is out in the paper and draws a different conclusion from the other from SINTEF's earlier. But one thing is quite clear in what the SFT says, and that is that you can import power for up to ten years – where there is also polluting coal power – and wait for the development of more environmentally friendly gas technology and get into plus also for global emissions. This is because gas power plants have a life span of 20-30 years and will continue to release even after entering an allowance system. Until recently, I would like to say that it is not true that imports are the main initiative of the Government. The government has provided an energy message and has agreed that over a ten-year period, we will spend NOK 5 billion on renewable energy investment. In addition, the Minister of Oil and Energy has also made an effort to reorganise an increased effort to make this more effective than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e431	There will be follow-up questions – Karita Bekkelem Orheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e434	The government holds the environmental tab high on the gas power issue, yes, it's a nation's environmental credibility that's at stake, at least if we're going to believe the prime minister. We have now heard that gas power plants will lead to emissions equivalent to half a million cars. This is immoral according to the Prime Minister. But I would like to ask where the same environmental morality is in terms of our own extraction of oil and gas on the base, which actually leads to quite large emissions of CO2 in Europe. This government has agreed to export gas equivalent to 100 gas power stations. Is it more morally acceptable, in the opinion of the Minister for the Environment, to export CO2 emissions out of the country rather than to use the gas nationally and thus to contribute to a reduction in emissions in the long term? I believe the government has a double argument in this case and uses the environmental arguments that it had to suit. This case has become an environmental policy alibi for an otherwise highly toothless environmental administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e443	Let me first say that when large parts of the environmental movement want this government to continue, it's probably not primarily because they think our environmental policy is toothless. Otherwise, the Prime Minister has already removed some of the power expressions that are now used about his position from this pulpit, so I will not go into that further. But let me say a little bit about what's happening on the Norwegian base. In fact, because we have had and have high CO2 taxes on a Norwegian base, it has been an incentive for technology development. This means that the extraction of oil and gas on a Norwegian base is currently the lowest CO2 emissions per year. unit of production. This shows that clear environmental requirements and clear regulatory frameworks are speeding up technology development. It is also such that a large part of the gas being exported is used directly and does not pass through transformation into electricity. It gives a higher efficiency and lower CO2 emissions per. the production of a unit of gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e452	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e455	The central government's proposals in gas power cases are better than the majority's proposals. SV supports three of the proposals submitted. But we have a major problem with a proposal, namely the proposal to build the so-called CO2-free gas power plant, because it easily leads to a weighty investment in alternative renewable energy. This policy also stood at Guro Mountains as late as last October. Does not the Minister for the Environment still think that the best solution is to invest in alternative renewable energy? And doesn't she also see that the construction of any so-called CO2-free gas power plant will destroy for this? Is this an expression of a good environmental policy, or is it actually a drag to sit in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e460	I believe the answer to the challenge we're facing is to have more thoughts in your head at once. I don't think the answer to the challenge we're facing is to rely on one energy carrier or one type of action. I believe that what the Government has agreed to in the energy message setting will mean that we will have a strong commitment to renewable energy and energy savings in the time to come. What we have proposed as regards the development of more environmentally friendly gas technologies is not at the expense of the efforts we are talking about here, but in addition. And I think that we are just getting a development where we can have a commitment to renewable energy while at the same time wanting to have a development of more environmentally friendly gas technology, which will not only be sensible environmental policies, but also sensible industrial policies in a slightly longer perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e467	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e471	In 1996, Norwegian imports of electricity increased sharply. In 1996, Danish CO2 emissions increased by about 20 pst. In the newspaper today, an NVE expert says that as we increase imports, activity in coal-fired power stations is increasing in Denmark. In other words, we contribute to the rise in Nordic CO2 emissions. I called for the logic of the central parties' attitude when it is almost made as a sin to build gas power plants in Norway, while it is absolutely OK that we sell the gas to Europe, and that they fire up their gas power plants there. Instead, I received a strong reproof from the country's prime minister. I want to ask the Environment Minister if she can explain to me the logic that it is problematic to build them here, while it is absolutely OK that we sell the gas to Europe and that they fire up their gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e478	Let me first grab hold of the last one, which I also tried to answer the previous question, where I say that it is actually that a large part of the gas we export is going not only to fire gas power plants in other countries, but also to direct use either for heating, cooking food or other activities. There is no doubt that this is a more environmentally friendly way of using the gas, because it results in less CO2 emissions from the effect you get. So there's one thing that surprises me in this debate, and it's that it looks like very many people have forgotten that something happened early in December 1997. That's when we got a Kyoto protocol. And this protocol not only demands Norway to reduce its climate and gas emissions, it also demands all the rich countries, including Denmark. That's also why Denmark says on their own, that they have to wind up large parts of the coal-fired power stations they have, and will start to wind up the worst. And to the extent that someone should provide evidence here, it is probably soon time that the gas-powered trailer provided documentation from Denmark saying that Norwegian gas-fired power plants will advance in the decommissioning of Danish coal power. It doesn't exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e485	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e488	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has been given training offices in the country, in cooperation with the county officials, to identify how much money the municipalities have allocated to school compared to the previous two years. In total, the budget reports now received by the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research show that in 160 out of 180 municipalities, schools receive an ever smaller proportion of the municipal budgets. Only exceptionally, municipalities have allocated relatively more money to school this year. My question to the Prime Minister is: in the municipal election campaign, there was a very high level of commitment among very many parents, teachers, young people and grandparents – a protest that the standard in school was too bad, and a protest that some of the things that matter most to the future are going to go for lye and cold water. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the results of this report?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e497	No, we're not satisfied, and I agree with Kristin Halvorsen that in several municipalities the school situation is not satisfactory or good enough. Now one should be a little careful with such numbers, as far as I understood, this was how much the municipalities spend relatively much on school compared to other sectors. And if, for example, one or two sectors are increasing sharply, e.g. due to a decision taken by a magnification, the share of the other sectors will necessarily decrease. We now know that the Stortinget has adopted strong escalation plans in the area of health and elderly care, and especially the care of the elderly is of course a direct influence on the municipalities. When the municipalities then necessarily use much more in the older sector, other sectors relatively, when dividing by 100 pst, will get less. This is not only a good answer to how things stand at school in these municipalities, it is the actual allocation to the school that determines it. Once I've said that, I'm going to give Kristin Halvorsen the right idea that in many municipalities, the direct appropriations for the school, regardless of how it is relative to other sectors, are not high enough. It is linked to a difficult local economy. In many municipalities, there is not enough free resources to provide adequate care for the school system. It's the government working to improve. We are in a very demanding budgetary situation and economic situation, because we are in a situation with a very high activity in the Norwegian economy and a very tight labour market that makes you have to exercise some caution generally. But in those areas where there is room for priority, the government has said that we want to satisfy the school increasingly. We added some increase especially in youth, ICT and the development of the teaching role in the state budget for 2000, and we want to move on in this way, and also take with us what comes from the Storting in connection with the recruitment message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e506	The Prime Minister is concerned about what is the pattern in the municipalities if you go through this report, that in order for the municipalities to afford the propensity to spend money on the elderly, you cut down on the school budgets. It's a pattern that doesn't apply to individual municipalities, it's a pattern that concerns a lot of municipalities, a majority of the municipalities in the country. This means that the government's legacy, which I see more and more beginning to talk about, in the school sector will be that under the government of Bondevik, the appropriations for the school and the investment in the school were significantly worse than it was before, while the vast majority of the Norwegian people believe that in one of the world's richest countries, we have to afford both to take care of the old and to invest in what is future, namely the school. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with such a legacy? I would also like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that he is also responsible in five and ten years' time for the decisions taken today, even though he is not in government. And if he's in doubt about it, he can only ask the Opseth or the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e515	The President is responsible for the time spent, and asks the representative Halvorsen to adjust within one minute!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e518	Now I'm not actually a participant in a discussion about my government's legacy, so that leaves me lying. Let's stick to the case. If you look at the government budget's appropriations for school, this is not as black as the representative Halvorsen gives the impression. We'd like to have room for a stronger increase, but it's been an increase in effort. But what's the problem, which Halvorsen also had in mind, is that many municipalities have such a difficult financial situation that they can't put enough money into the school in relation to their needs. We'll try to do something about that. We need to take responsibility for the whole of the economy – we cannot operate with budgets like those of the Socialist Left, to finance this, unfortunately we cannot – but within the framework that we believe is responsible, and with other purposes to be met, we must seek both to improve the local economy and to give priority to the school sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e525	There will be follow-up questions – Grete Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e528	I want to ask a follow-up question. In the documentation provided by the Government, Stortinget, it is not clear that the conditions in the school are bad in the municipalities. It is said that there are some differences from municipality to municipality, but the government determines that conditions are satisfactory. And then there will be a report, including: the last time that the Teachers team publishes, but that is done by the Government’s own agencies, namely the education directors, who say that nine out of ten schools have been heavily reduced in recent years. The question to the Prime Minister is whether he will come back — in the light of the fact that the education directors now produce such a report — with an up-to-date presentation to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e537	When it comes to the latter, I get to deal with the Minister of Education; I think it's right that I involve him in such a question. As far as the 2000 budget is concerned, it has been adopted in cooperation between the Government Parties and the Workers' Party. Otherwise, it's right, as the representative Grete Knudsen says, that there are different relationships between municipalities and municipalities. In many municipalities – and we have not hidden it – the situation is not good for the school, at least not good enough. In some other municipalities – because we travel around different municipalities all together – the situation is clearly better and satisfying. But the overall impression is that the school should be upgraded. The government has said that is our intention, and we will do so within the limits allowed by the Norwegian economy. At least we must not allow the Norwegian economy to come out of control, as both the school and everyone else will lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e547	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e550	Everyone is concerned about the Norwegian economy and will do well. If we have it at the top of our heart, school and education are one of the most important things we can do that can ensure our future. And it's the municipalities that are responsible for it. In 1999, the deficit is estimated to be DKK 10 billion, a doubling from the previous year – that means you had a bad enough economy from before. What does the Prime Minister give priority to the school, when the result of the budgets thus turns out, that the deficits increase from year to year, and that this is essentially going beyond school, which is going to be a field of activity? In what way can the Prime Minister now demonstrate that there will be an improvement in school and not a constant deterioration?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e557	While it is clear that the school’s financial situation is partly related to appropriations directly above the state budget, it may be even more related to the local government’s finances. It is true that there is a worrying feature, as the representative Karin Andersen pointed out, that municipal deficits are increasing. And we can't just sit there and watch that be added. This is what the Government will return to in the municipal economic proposition of spring. We also have an ongoing review of the income system, to see if it is accurate enough to satisfy the municipalities that need it the most. There may also be reallocation opportunities that allow the most disadvantaged municipalities now — which then go out of their way — to get better out of the school. There are certain grips that we can use. And we want to continue to increase the funding for the school directly above the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e562	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e565	Considering that the entire Storting morning meeting tomorrow is going to be about exactly the questions that have been raised, it may be a little surprising that this comes at the tame of today's spontaneous questioning hour. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question, since this is first raised: Is it the Government's view that the problems raised in the school can or should be solved by increasing the state overgovernment of the municipalities, or is it the Government's view that the division of roles between the municipalities and their responsibilities and the state should be like today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e570	No, I don't believe that a greater state overgovernment in general, and in school in particular, is a good solution. In the case of the school system, on the contrary, this government has provided for greater local freedom of action. That's a path we believe in. I think those who are closest to the problems are also the best ones to know how to solve them. We have a long way to go when it comes to school, turning the pyramid — less central orientation, greater local freedom. But the problem is of course for many municipalities that they do not have good enough finances to exercise this freedom within. It's related to the local economy, and we're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e577	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e582	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and in this context the President will refer to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Lodve Solholm to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Culture, who will direct him. However, the question is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Culture has left. Question 2, from the representative of Leif Lund to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Church, Education and Research, this question will be moved and answered before question 14, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 4, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister for Development and Human Rights, the question will be moved and answered in response to question 13. Question 5, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been removed. Questions 6 and 7 from the representatives Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and Ingvald Godal respectively to the Minister for Foreign Affairs are postponed to the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 17, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. At the request of the Minister of Health, this question will be moved and answered before question 26, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 23, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e603	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President considers that he has to be informed by reference to Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last 3 paragraphs have determined that only one supplementary question will be raised after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the current map to be completed within the scheduled time of the morning meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e616	This question will be answered by the Minister for Culture, who will address it. However, the question has been put to the next Question Time, when the Minister of Culture has left. Question 2 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e625	I have the following questions for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘The crisis centres are making a great effort to combat violence in society and in the work of relieving the harm and distress that violence causes. Many of the crisis centres work under very difficult conditions. Will the Council of State take initiatives to improve the conditions of crisis centres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e634	Both men and women, children and young people are victims of violence. Men are most often exposed to violence in public places, such as streets, restaurants and parks, while women and children are increasingly affected by domestic violence. Choices in the world come in many ways in a special position. Police figures show that violence against women is usually carried out by current or former husbands or partners. We also know that such a choice would last. The children are often a witness to parental choice, and some children are also turned off. Choices in the home frame both women and children. In order to improve women’s efforts at violence in the world, the Government has developed its own action plan. The Ministry of Justice has the coordinating responsibility for the plan. A coordination group with representatives from the different departments shall be established. A special position shall also be created in the Ministry of Justice responsible for the coordination of the State's action against violence against women. Although we already have a lot of knowledge of women's power, and this knowledge will be better coordinated, there is still a need for more and better knowledge. Several measures in the action plan seek to improve the quality of life around crisis centres, as requested by the representative Kvalbugt. The crisis response depends on an economic situation that is stable, in order to do a good job. As it is now, the state covers half of the budgeted expenditure of crisis centres, while the municipalities and others cover the other half. Last year, the state had a share of about 53 million. kr. The present system of advances is neither satisfactory for the state nor for crisis centres. It's in St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000 announced that the Ministry intends to present new guidelines for the early retirement scheme in order to ensure a stable basis for operations and to ensure the management of government expenditure. In the conversion of the proposal to crisis centres, it will be a primary goal to provide users with a good supply. The action plan also includes measures to increase the competence of those working in crisis centres, because they have a strenuous job. One reason is that there is a poorly developed professional offer around crisis centres. Therefore, provision should be made for guidance and training for those working in the centre. Trials shall also be initiated to develop new models in order to improve cooperation between different parts of the auxiliaries. The local authorities' work here is central. Efforts to help the victims of violence require wide-ranging efforts across sectors and disciplines. Studies conclude that crisis centres and ordinary auxiliaries face little of the psychosocial problems that result from abuse, whether for women or for children. For this reason, the Ministry of Children and Family has carried out an investigation, at NIBR, which looks at women's secrets of crisis centres, but also at the way in which auxiliaries function for their needs. Public authorities also have a great responsibility to follow-up contacts from crisis centres so that the children get the help they have right to. Selected against women cannot be solved with simple grips and is not just a question of their crisis center conditions. We must work on many fronts at once. Being able to live without power is a human right for women and men, children and adults. We have to work on this right to make sure that everyone is satisfied. It's a heavy and long-term, but a very important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e660	I thank the Council of State for a good, exciting and rich answer. How the future society is going to be depends on how we're doing today to get rid of the children first and foremost. Crisis centres are a first aid for many women and children who are in a very difficult situation and are subjected to violence, as the Council of State also pointed out. Therefore, it is important that these are guaranteed their working conditions. We know that many crisis centres, as the economic situation is today, have to shut down on vacations. But violence, we know, doesn't take a vacation. That's why I'm also very pleased with the signals that the Council of State gave, about the research and the knowledge they're now working on, which might in the longer term lower the level of violence in society. I thank you again for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e669	Question 4 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e675	This question, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Defence on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e678	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence, who will answer the following questions on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘According to several surveys in the Official Journal of Bergen, the establishment of the Globe II radar in Vardø has created significant uncertainties in Russia. Several American research and military sources claim that the radar can have a function in the construction of an American rocket defense. Can the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that information on this is incorrect, and what will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to resolve the uncertainty that has arisen with regard to Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e687	Since the first public information on the radar was released in 1998, it has been clear that Globe II will have three separate tasks when it comes into operation next year. For the sake of order, I repeat these: First, it's space monitoring, which involves measuring the exact position and path of objects in space. Unlike what has been said, Vardø is a very good location for such activities, because very many satellites go in northern orbits. Secondly, there is research and development, especially in space-related fields. Thirdly, monitoring of the Norwegian area of interest includes technical intelligence collection. The first two tasks, space monitoring and research and development, are carried out in full public. However, the intelligence section of the Globe II activity is closed to public transparency. I know that there is a great deal of understanding that this is necessary in the interests of national security and cooperation with other countries. The bodies of the Storting have been duly informed about the radar project, and the Stockholm Control Committee for the Secret Services has been informed and has been on inspection in Vardø. The fact that Norway has intelligence installations that monitor the Norwegian military area of interest is nothing new. Nor is it a secret that Norway shares collected intelligence with other countries. Norwegian intelligence installations do not represent a threat to Russia. I believe that this activity, on the contrary, provides some information as a basis for Norwegian defence policy decisions. The high concentration of Russian strategic nuclear weapons near the Norwegian area necessitates careful monitoring by the Norwegian side of the activity in this area. It is also relevant in relation to information for the verification of disarmament agreements. I can confirm that the issue of Globe II has been raised by the Russian side with the Norwegian authorities. In an address to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 13 January this year, concerns were expressed by the Russian side about the establishment of the radar in Vadsø. The Russians claim that the radar earlier, when it was deployed in the United States, has been used in such a way that the re-location in Vardø implies that Norway contributes to the intrusion of the ABM agreement. From the Norwegian side, the enquiry was answered to the Russian ambassador in Norway. From the Norwegian side, it was emphasised that we support the ABM agreement as a central element in the work of nuclear arms control and strategic stability. Of course, we do not want to contribute to the breach of the agreement. Nor does this happen when establishing the radar in Vardø, which does not conflict with the ABM agreement for the following reasons: The radar is disposed of by Norway, operates under Norwegian control and will be manned by Norwegian personnel. The radar is technically unable to search in large volumes or to follow several dimensions with large spread. In order to be effective as part of a missile defence, these characteristics must be present. It's not real-time, i.e. at the same time, transmission of data from radar to the United States of America. In order to clarify misunderstandings, we have provided significant amounts of technical information about the radar to the Russians. We hope that this will help to remove the unrest that some people in Moscow are expressing that they are feeling. We want to continue the dialogue with the Russian authorities. We focus on an open and trusting relationship with Russia in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e721	I thank you for your answer. In the opinion of this representative, some progress has been made in the information provided by the Stortinge, compared with that received in May 1998, when it was only said that this radar includes observations of space debris. After a press release on Friday, one goes away from it; one does not mention space debris at all, but now says that it is monitoring, among other things. satellites in outer space. The first follow-up question is therefore: Was the information submitted in May 1998 correct? The second is about the relationship to the ABM agreement: Is it so to understand that the Minister of Defense can tell me directly that it can't ever be used to monitor Russian missiles?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e730	Let me first take it as one here trying to make a point, that there has been a development in the information given around objects in space. Both the press release issued by the Defence Over Command in March 1998 and the publicly available information published in 1998 clearly describe what the objects in space are. So there's no new development in the information given about that point. I would like to provide that information to the representative of Langeland afterwards. When it comes to the question of whether this radar could ever be used: first, this radar has moved from the United States. The software which was in the radar was removed. A new software has been introduced to serve the tasks it will have in Norway. In the event of a change, political decisions must be taken to amend technical installations and it is under full Norwegian control.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e757	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e763	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘Flying charges amount to around 31 pst. by passengers who pay for an aeroplane ticket. In other European countries, the percentage is between 15 and 20 pst. This leads to a clear distortion of competition between the companies operating in Norway and those with the majority of their business abroad. This is also a breach of Storting’s 1994 premise when free competition was introduced in the air. ‘Competition shall be conducted on a level playing field.’ Will the Council of State ensure that this is done in the next state budget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e772	In the budget proposal for the autumn – St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, Tax, Fee and Customs Decisions – a relatively broad coverage of aviation competition was given, based on a report from a working group where the airlines were also represented. It appears from the report that an overall working group agreed that the Norwegian rules on taxes, charges and charges apply equally to Norwegian and foreign airlines to the extent that they fall within the scope of the rules. The working group focused on the competitive relationship between companies with the majority of their domestic activities and companies with the majority of their foreign activities. The working group emphasises that there is a high domestic market of the Norwegian companies which leads to a higher burden on Norwegian contributions than foreign companies do. The majority of the working group points out that the review of the charging rules by the Group shows that Norwegian companies will not be able to reduce the tax burden on domestic flights in Norway by moving their business abroad. The exemption is the investment levy. However, with the extensive exemptions established for aviation, the majority consider that this charge has relatively modest effect today. In the context of the totality of corporation tax, this suggests, in the majority's view, that today's Norwegian tax and tax level should not give Norwegian companies tax and tax incentives to move larger parts of the business abroad. As stated in the budget proposal, the Government considers that no changes should be made to reduce its revenues from aviation. Many Norwegian enterprises and industries can demonstrate that they are subject to higher taxes and charges than their competitors, and it would be neither possible nor sensible to adapt the corporate and capital taxation of individual industries to the conditions of different competitors. In general, however, I do not believe that there is any basis for claiming that Norwegian tax rules are more unfavourable to business in Norway compared to other comparable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e783	I thank you for the answer, which, of course, I am not satisfied with. There must be a conflict within the Government. I have two letters – one from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and one from the Ministry of Transport. In the course of a hearing, the letter from the Ministry of Transport states that: ‘The Ministry of Transport will point out the concerns in this regard, and in particular the transport policy unfortunate fact that the distortions of competition occur in the disfavor of companies which have their main business in Norway and will therefore also be detrimental to Norwegian aviation.’ The letter from the Ministry of Industry reads as follows: ‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is committed to ensuring that the conditions of competition of companies operating in the same market are as equal as possible. Such is the situation now, it is a favoritism of airlines which have the main importance of operating abroad.’ Two departments confirm this, but the Minister of Finance probably has not brought it with him: the fees in Norway are too high. I hope the minister can answer that he is ready to put them down. I'll recommend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e800	Over the last few years, I have received many questions from the representative Johnsen and answered these questions, and each time Johnsen has started his reaction by saying that he ‘of course is not satisfied with the answer’, and there was no exception this time. So it goes as normal. My assessment is that aviation is not particularly hard-treated – on the contrary. In the case of charging loads, aviation has been treated relatively sympathetically, or treated lightly. This applies, inter alia, to: in relation to VAT legislation, and not least in relation to environmental taxes. In view of the highly polluting activity represented by aviation, and in particular the high CO2 emissions from aircraft, the CO2 tax, which was introduced as late as 1 January 1999, is a message. It's 24 and 26 cents apiece. liters. There's only half of the CO2 tax on diesel, and only a quarter of the tax on petrol.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e810	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Defence: ‘Manpower ammunition for the Norwegian Defence Agency has been produced at Raufoss for more than 100 years. The company is now merged with the Swedish and Finnish defence industry, and this production has been relocated to Sweden and Finland in a restructuring plan. Military production shall take place in Sweden. How does the Council of State assess the possibility of obtaining the necessary supplies in a possible war situation, when Sweden is a neutral country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e819	I've been given the Defence Command to make an assessment of the emergency aspects of the shutting down of the production of calibre 7.62 mm on Raufoss. The FO has concluded that the closure will not impair the preparedness of the defence. The defense's chief command assesses the combat value of the small arms in general. This of course also applies to the corresponding ammunition. It is more important for the Defence that the production of intermediate-calibration ammunition remains in Norway. Norwegian ammunition preparedness is primarily based on the emergency storage of ammunition. Therefore, no pre-requisition or pre-pre-requisition contracts have been concluded by any ammunition producer for the production and delivery of ammunition on standby. Such production would be subject to the availability of all raw materials, intermediate products and components for the ammunition types concerned. The industry concerned does not keep such raw materials and components in stock, but is based on relatively frequent inputs from subcontractors in the process of production. Where appropriate, the costs of acquiring and keeping stocks of raw materials and components for the production of preparedness would be borne by the Defence and constitute a large part of the price of finished ammunition. When the lead time, i.e. The delivery time of the primary and sub-contracting components, at the same time long, explains why the defence has chosen to base its ammunition preparedness on ammunition stocks. Our emergency stores are intended to supply conflicting departments with ammunition until allied supply lines are established. The first measures on the ammunition side, if necessary, are the maintenance of contracts already concluded, or the triggering of options with our ammunition suppliers in several countries. Nammo, as a larger Nordic ammunition company, has a significantly broader product spectrum than Raufoss’s ammunition had before the merger. Since Nammo necessarily has several alternative subcontractors, the company has better prerequisites for supplying its production than smaller national companies. In the case of the possible purchase of calibre 7,62 mm produced by Nammos factory in Sweden, in the event of a crisis or war, this is sought through a contract between Norway, Sweden and Finland for security of supply for ammunition. Negotiations are in progress between the defence and foreign agencies in Finland, Sweden and Norway with a view to establishing such a network. A security of supply contract will mean that the authorities of the three countries accept a certain degree of mutual dependence in relation to supplies of ammunition. It will also address the need for prioritisation between contracts and customers if one of the three participating countries is in a state of emergency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e835	I thank you for the answer and am pleased that the FO has expressed itself on this side of the standby, and I am also pleased with what they have said. But I'm still worried. Because I know that the defense and the company at Raufoss have a close cooperation. AMK and HFC have staff stationed with premises in the company, which have their own test centre and are approved as a supplier to our allied NATO country. It's not the other companies in Nammo. They must be given such NATO approval. When moving handgun ammunition, other related products, such as: 12,7, be in danger of being flagged out. Thus, competence and experience will disappear out of the country. It also belongs to the story that there was a profit of 20 million. kr in total in Nammo last year, while Raufoss had a surplus of 22 million. kr. [[The President clubs.]] In other words, Raufoss contributed to the positive results in Sweden and Finland. I was not going to ask my question, but I hope the President will accept that I am asking for an answer when the agreement with the other countries is expected to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e842	The over-command of the defence has expressed itself on the basis of preparedness related to how important they believe that small arms, and therefore ammunition for small arms, are in a crisis situation. So they're saying it's more about making 12.7 and 57 mm is produced in Norway. But that's not a question that's up now. The whole issue of Nammo, both the industrial policy and the preparedness aspects, will be brought before the Grand Duchy by the Minister, through the Government, in a proposal to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is promoted by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The agreement with the three Nordic countries is under development. There's going to be a meeting here in Oslo in March-April, where you're going to be able to go another step towards getting such an agreement in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e852	I will be allowed to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: «In budget entry. S. No 7 reports to the Defence Committee after meeting with the Ministry of Defence that ‘the assumptions of the size do not appear to be present in the organisation of the Gardermoen flight collection’. [[1999 - 2000]] On 17 February 2000, one of the country’s most beautiful flight collections is described as the ‘Flying Collection Nobody Can See’. Will the Council of State ensure that the staging conditions are met, so that the collection of flights is 72 million. can finally be opened to the public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e861	First, I have to be allowed to comment on the last paragraph of the question, namely, the ‘Aeronautical Collection of 72 million. crowns’.» Very familiar is not the flight collection taxed so that we can specify any value for it, but what is the case is that the flight collection is in a warehouse building that cost 72 million. I should like to make a statement. For the sake of order, I would also like to mention that this is a warehouse for the remaining part of the flight collection at Gardermoen, which did not fit in the Air Force Museum in Bodø. The representative, Mr Smedsrud, takes as his starting point the budget entry point. S. No 7 for 1999-2000, but to look at this with assumptions, it is necessary to go back to the Netherlands. S. No 303 for 1996-1997, and the leadership given there, inter alia, ‘that the Ministry of Defence provides the Foundation with a satisfactory opportunity for the Military Historical Forum in Eastern Europe to design, develop and operate a public-adapted exhibition in the hall’. On this basis, the Ministry of Defence has been working all along. In 1998, an agreement was reached with the Foundation on the rental of the service building and a cooperation agreement was concluded in 1999 between the Foundation and the Defence Museum on the public-service activities. The Cooperation Agreement shall specify that the meeting shall be open to the public by 1 June 2000. I'm excited that it's going to be a reality, because it's a great collection, where from a number of enthusiasts there's a very big effort to bring the planes to the standard they have today. I am aware that the Foundation has already committed itself to financial commitments to facilitate the activities of the public, and that this work is also under way. In my view, it is therefore difficult to claim that these assumptions are not met. From this I am now working to find practical and organisational arrangements where the Military Historical Forum Foundation in Eastern Europe can still play a role in the audience-adapted activities at the meeting. Nor can we ignore the fact that, as mentioned earlier, binding agreements have been concluded to which the defence must also relate. Since the State v/Ministry of Defence is the owner of the aircraft, it is clear that the Defence Museum, as the Special Command of the Defence Department responsible for the military museum activities, will have overall responsibility for the management of the aircraft collection. It is a well-known matter that there is some concern about the flight collection, and more enquiries have been made and several letters have been sent to depositors, to the National Audit Office and to me, where different views have emerged. However, we are working to find a solution to protect the public's interests, namely that the meeting is being opened until the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e881	I must be allowed to thank the Minister of Defence for the answer – an answer that immediately makes me very happy, an answer that I interpret in the sense that the Ministry of Defence has now changed its view on whether these expectations of the Foundation have been fulfilled in relation to the promises made to the Defence Committee before the budgetary procedure last year. My question to the Minister for Defence becomes quite simple: can the Minister for Defence guarantee the public, not least those who work at the Gardermoen and invest money in this, that the opening date set, 27 May, can be followed in their work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e888	Until recently, I have said that I am working on it as a goal, and that is the guarantee I can give so far. But we're working to meet the Biggest assumption for that. With regard to the statement that the Ministry of Defence has changed its view, it may be referred to the Committee's comment given in the Budgetary Statement. S. No 7 for 1999-2000. There it has been said from the committee that we should work for an organisation that makes this collection of flights available and that it will be a proper operation of the facility. That comment on the failure of the committee, and it was repeated in the debate, was not a criticism that the Ministry of Defence had not done its job. The criticism was whether the Foundation had contributed the five million. which they had promised during visits to the Committee. They are now acknowledgment through the Foundation and contribute to the development of the public sector. So I can't see that they've broken their promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e898	I will ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: «Through the Kongsberg Centerparti I am informed that in the construction of Kongsgårdmoen Jugendskole, the municipality needs construction land which can either be obtained by redeeming more houses or by taking care of the areas of one of the Defence Garage Plant. According to my information, the garage is to be closed in a few years. What will the Council of State do to enable the Municipality of Kongsberg to acquire that area from the Defence Office, in order to avoid that the municipality will have to go to the forced redemption of people's dwellings?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e907	The existing control plan for the expansion of Kongsgårdmoen secondary school in Kongsberg includes an uninhabited area of Defence property Kongsgårdmoen clay. However, the plans for expansion require the redemption of two or three housings. In order to avoid the redemption of dwellings, the municipality of Kongsberg addressed the Ministry of Defence in 1995 where it was expressed the wish to take over part of the property of the Defence, which, however, is built with five garages. The garages that are permanently planned to be replaced by a larger common store elsewhere are still in use for the storage of defence equipment and cannot be disposed of without replacement buildings, permanent or, where appropriate, temporary. The enquiry was usually sent to the Defence Building Service, and I am aware that the Defence Building Service has discussed the matter with the municipality on the basis of a wish to be as responsive as possible. However, it is clear that the construction of temporary stocks will be a relatively costly solution for the municipality, which therefore chose a different solution in its regulatory process. Another option that the municipality has assessed and rejected is to wait with the development of the Defense within its own resources to build a new central repository, which may take a few years. In that case, the municipality would be able to buy the area relatively reasonably. Another possible solution could be to move the garage buildings to another place on Kongsgårdmoen camp. The cost of moving is estimated at approx. Six million. kr and will, if appropriate, be significantly cheaper for the municipality than building new warehouses. I am aware that the Swedish Defence Building Service has agreed to meet with the municipality about approx. 14 days to discuss this. If the municipality is interested in covering the removal costs, they will have the opportunity to purchase the property at the normal property price. In the light of what I have said, I find reason to point out that the defence's claim for compensation for any waiver is not only about the price of the land or empty buildings without any use, but also about the replacement buildings for the activities of the storage facility. In the current economic situation, the defence itself does not have the opportunity to build replacement buildings with the first and must therefore invest in using the garage for some years to come, if the municipality does not see fit to cooperate on another solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e920	I thank the Council of State for the answer and see that the matter is under way in various instances, as I also mentioned in my question. But I have to say that it is very worrying if the defense, i.e. the state, is to put obstacles in the way of the municipality being built the school that is so absolutely necessary. I'm familiar with students in Kongsberg being moved around, because there's not enough room for them today. I hope that the defense will now do its utmost to reconcile with the municipality, so that one can solve this problem. To me, it's completely incomprehensible if it's going to go so far that there's private homes that have to be expropriated, because then we've set ourselves up so that the individual actually means less than the interests of the big community, and that doesn't matter. So I hope the Minister of Defense will do his thing so that it can get a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e927	This is actually an old thing. Since I myself was rapporteur on Kongsberg quite many years ago, this has been a matter. But it has not necessarily been so that it is the defense that has prevented it. It has also been the municipality’s priority for school buildings that have been part of that discussion. My position is, and I have also informed the rapporteur at Kongsberg, that I hope that it is possible to find a solution locally that can meet the local authority's potential need to build this school earlier than if the defense is to wait until they move to a central warehouse. For that to happen, there has to be another dialogue. It's on. I have the option that we must be able to find a solution, but then the municipality and the defence will find a solution locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e937	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘How do the Councils of State see two state actors involved in legitimizing gambling in what today’s business calls ‘game bulls’ for financial and sports crooks to spend money on people’s ‘game madness’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e944	State gambling is administered by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Agriculture and is operated by Norsk Tipping AS and Norsk Rikstoto. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for the private lotteries under the Lottery Act. According to the media, SportCafé is to be developed into a chain of non-alcoholic sports and gambling venues funded by private investors. Before each SportCafé can offer state games, the sites must be approved by Norsk Typing and Norsk Rikstototo as commissioners in the usual way. This implies that companies will require gambling activities to be carried out within a sound and controlled framework, including: are not applied consistently to the marketing of the venues. Games may not be offered on vending machines in the premises until the police have given permission to set up. Authorisation may only be granted to non-governmental organisations and associations for social or humanitarian purposes. If the rooms are searched for the vending machines, having the character of a gambling hall, the matter shall be referred to the ministry before the police grant a stand-up permit. This practice has been put in place to ensure that there are uniform conditions for the operation of gambling halls, including: requirements for age-limited access to premises. However, the fact that private investors and companies make money on owning premises where lotteries are held for income for social purposes, I do not consider it problematic. However, the starting point should be that as much as possible of the revenue from the lottery goes for the good purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e953	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I'm sorry that parts of my question about an incursion have fallen away. There we're probably going to blame for the new technology that we're now using, PCs and not spring pens. As usual, the Council of State had understood the intentions of my question. I would like to remind you that the majority of the Justice Committee in the Lotterilova setting pointed out that a plan should be presented on how this market is exploited by state games and voluntary teams and organisations, and that no more state games or others should be introduced until one has had this plan or the distribution of treatment here in the Stortinget. We see that there are also financial and sporting scandals in this concept, not just to give the humanitarian actors a share in the income, but there are private interests here also to make money in a state market. I hope that the government can confirm that it will review this matter before granting permission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e962	The representative Nistad has now been involved in some merit in the treatment of the Lottery Act, which was sent back to the Ministry of Justice, asking for an overall assessment of both state and private lotteries and games. But until that is done, the present legal order exists. What I can assure the representative is that this work is under way. However, on the basis of the priorities of the Committee on Legal Affairs, there are two issues that first go with great urgency this spring. One is to have the Lottery Authority established, in respect of all fees. The second thing is to look at the automatic instructions. But the work of watching games in the context will be done. Then exactly the challenges that have arisen will be part of it. The main question will be: Do you now adequately secure voluntary and non-profit organisations in Norway? There is the representative and I agree with what is an important approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e970	I want to ask the Minister of Justice a question again: ‘We see that there is money to invest in lotteries when listed Norwegian Lottery Business AS is bought up by Swiss UBS Capital bv. which is again a wholly owned subsidiary of one of Europe's major banks, the Union Bank of Switzerland. Today, many of our volunteer teams and humanitarian organizations are buying services from Norwegian lottery operations. What comment does the Council of State have that foreign listed companies have such a dominant place in our voluntary organization?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e979	Permits to hold lotteries may only be granted to socially useful or humanitarian organisations. Organisations have the right to use the contractor for the conduct of the lottery. Norwegian Lottery Business AS assists organisations to carry out lottery activities through the provision of vending machines. Lottery contractors operate on the basis of commercial interests. However, the proportion of revenue from the lottery assigned to the contractor is limited either by the rules laid down by the Ministry or by the conditions laid down in the individual lottery permit. Police shall approve all agreements between the contractor and the organisation before authorisation. As Minister of Justice, I have no further comment that Norsk Lottery Business AS is operating so that the company becomes an interesting investment object for foreign investors. The detailed rules for the foreign acquisition of Norwegian limited liability companies are the responsibility of the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e988	Once again, I thank the Council of State for its answer. I have noticed that he does not go into the problem that there is money in it when a company is listed and bought up by foreign capital owners. In this way, some of the capital in this form of industry is moving out of the country. I would like to ask him to comment on one of the proposals that are also in the Lotterilova setting, to just mark from the Labour Party – how he looks like to create a state-owned entrepreneur company that takes on the task of helping the small teams and organizations with the launching of slot machines, to bring the surplus of such a company back to the voluntary teams and organizations. I hope that this is also more in line with the way we think, humanitarianly, in relation to this form of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e997	The background to my previous reply was that I was pleased with the Justice Committee's call to see games and lotteries in a context, and I think that the experience of Storting was just a little bit behind me – and I also believe that Storting's experience – that the ideal organisational life has come a little bit behind me. They have used the contractor, and there is nothing bad about it, but of course it raises the question whether it could have been done in another way. I have noticed the Labour Party's proposal, but I have also noticed another proposal, which is that voluntary and non-profit organisations can join forces on games, so that they organise themselves in such a way that they can benefit from it. However, if you want to go further, you need to consider issues of access, for example: to the Commission services, and I see this as one of the questions that you have to face openly when you look at the whole. The representative Nistad and I still have a common starting point, although we may have a different view of the solutions: we are concerned that the ideal and voluntary Norway is forced on the defensive. And to put it this way: it's almost in parts of the country now that you need to have government science majors to know what a volunteer organization is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1006	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1012	This question, from the representative of Leif Lund to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of the Church, Education and Research as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1015	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘There are 13,300 employees in the municipal fire and celebration services, of which 3,200 are full-time employees. Is it only the full-time employees in the municipalities who are offered further training at the Norwegian Fire School?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1024	No organised and joint training is currently provided for part-time fire workers. The training of part-time firefighters is regulated by the regulations on professional qualifications for firefighters' personnel, laid down by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in July 1977. This requires only part-time firefighters to have received initial training in their own or other fire services in the first year. However, Norway’s Fire School offers a voluntary letter course as well as a practical five-day course which is intended to be a practical part-time training course for part-time staff after completion of the letter course. It is clear that this training is not good enough. A working group consisting of my Ministry, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Directorate of Fire and Explosion Protection and the Fire School of Norway was therefore set up in 1996 to identify training needs and to provide solutions. The working group has proposed a training model based on modules. Training consists to a large extent of self-study, evening education, Saturday collections and a final weekly collection. This means that training will take place locally and spread across the country. However, it is proposed that Norway’s Fire School in Tjeldsund should be a central coordinating unit and be responsible for the development of teaching materials. Norway’s Fire School has started work on the preparation of curricula and the coordination/development of teaching materials to be used in the training of part-time staff. Teaching materials used for the training of full-time staff will, as far as possible, also be used by part-time staff. Part-time fire workers will be able to start with the first part of the training, self-study, in the autumn of 2000, when the teaching material is available. Training more than 10,000 part-time firefighters is a demanding and comprehensive reform. In addition to developing teaching materials, Norway’s Fire School shall also train training instructors responsible for local training. Part-time fire workers must therefore be trained step by step and over some time. This means that letter courses can be started in 2000 and thus one is in the process of providing training also for part-time fire service staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1037	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I am a little surprised, because this is almost identical to the answer given by Minister of State Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad to Mr. Andersen of the Progress Party on a similar question – then these plans would be completed in 1999. Now the Council of State says that the plans will start in the autumn of 2000. So my question to the Council of State is, when is this going to start, and when are we going to give a usable training to firefighters in Norway, actually one of the countries in which it burns the most? It is no longer possible just to frame up, among other things. This regulation from 1977 – we have passed that millennium. Something has to be done, and I would like to hear if the Council of State has something more to say about progress than just coming right away as was said by Queseth Haarstad, and that what was to happen in 1999, now is to happen in the autumn of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1042	If I was the representative of Lund, I would probably dampen the volume a little bit, because I can then show that in the new era in the autumn of 1999, the government proposed the first run in the field of part-time fire education. It was because one had received the money because one had sold M/S "Sjövegen", and then the government suggested that these funds could be used for that purpose. The Committee's plurality, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Socialist Left Party, opposed the pledge and chose to use the money for other purposes. The government party insisted that one should use it for what had been proposed by the Government. So I'm going to say that we've already done something. I'll be concrete when education starts: the first part of this education starts in the autumn of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1049	We're now going to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1056	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1059	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions to be answered by the Minister for Development and Human Rights: «According to the Norwegian Mission in the East, there are widespread violations of religious freedom in Turkmenistan. All churches, with the exception of two, must have their registration revoked, believers arrested and deported, religious services interrupted, etc. Special concern is expressed regarding the fate of Shagilly Atakov and his family. Will the Government help to clarify the fate of Atakov, and what will it do to address the violations of religious freedom in Turkmenistan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1068	The representative Danielsen is quite right that developments in Turkmenistan are worrying. Reports of serious violations of human rights in the country and the appointment of Nijazov President in his lifetime clearly show this. Last autumn, the Minister for Foreign Affairs was the OSCE President in Turkmenistan. In a meeting with President Nijazov, the Minister for Foreign Affairs raised topical human rights issues, especially the difficult situation of Jehovah’s Witnesses in the country. We know the Atakov family's history from a recent letter from the Norwegian Mission in the East and a report from the OSCE's office in Ashkhabad. For Norway, as a member of the OSCE leadership troika, it is natural to raise the matter in the OSCE. Through the OSCE, we have the best opportunity to influence countries like Turkmenistan in a positive direction. We will now address the issue of the OSCE Presidency and the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights, ODIHR, in Warsaw. In addition, we will take the initiative to address the OSCE Office in Turkmenistan with a request to pursue the matter further and report on developments. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that under the Norwegian OSCE Presidency, we paid particular attention to strengthening the role and involvement of the OSCE in Central Asia. There is no doubt that the region faces very major political, economic, environmental and social challenges – many of which have a direct impact and consistency in relation to the human rights situation in the countries. If the countries are to be able to lay the foundations for democratic development and respect for human rights, the international community must be active and focused.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1081	I would like to thank the Minister for a very positive response and for having already pointed out the problems that are there and for continuing to point this out via the OSCE. With regard to Atakov in particular, I can also mention that he is a prisoner of conscience at Amnesty International, and that Turkmenistan has previously refused to provide information about Atakov. I am therefore pleased that this is being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1088	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1094	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘The Church Council of the Norwegian Church has decided to provide financial support to the Kristent Forum for Help among Homofiles. KFHH believes that homophilia is a cureable disease. Thus, the Church Council has made the situation of lesbians and homosexuals more difficult than it already is. Does the Council of State think it acceptable to give of the Church's common resources to a group that legitimizes spiritual abuse of lesbians and homosexuals?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1103	The Church Council is for the current year given the opportunity to dispose of 18.5 million. the return of the Fund of the Information Society. The funds shall be used for various ecclesiastical purposes. During the examination of the State budget for 2000, the Church, Education and Research Committee presented the Open Church Group as particularly supportive. After I have been informed, this organisation has received an additional payment for its operation of NOK 110 000. At the same time, the application from the Kristent Forum for Help among Homofiles has been received with NOK 40000. When it comes to the distribution of these funds, I ask you to understand that we do not have an arrangement that allows the Council of State to instruct the Council of Churches to reject or grant individual applications. The Council of State cannot and will not, at its discretion, repeal decisions of the Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1110	I thank the Council of State for the answer, although he did not answer my question. I didn't ask him to cancel the decision, I asked him how he looked at this. I wanted his evaluation. I would also like to point out what the Director of the Council of Churches, Erling J. Pettersen, has said. He says that supporting KFHH will be a signal that the Church is putting the brakes on in the homophilic dialogue. The same thing also says Open Church Group for lesbians and gays, who take a strong distance from this. Then I'll try again: how does the Council of State view this? Does the Council of State think that attempts to change the homophilic orientation of people are in line with our values of acceptance and non-discrimination of minorities? How does he view this support? Would it have negative effects on the dialogue in which the Church should be involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1119	What I did in my first answer was to clarify the status of the Church Council in relation to the management of the funds transferred from the Information Society's fund, and that it is a delegation that is final. When it comes to the question from the representative Dørum about what I mean about this organisation, it is not that the Council of State assesses each and every measure provided by the Council of Churches and assesses whether it makes sense or not. I record that they have followed up what Stortinget wanted to strengthen the dialogue by supporting the Open Church Group, and I think it is good that they have taken seriously what came from Stortinget in that way. Then they have also chosen to support one more group. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1129	‘The Council of Churches has been asked by the Council of State to advise on the dismissal of Olav Berg Lyngmo and Arne Thorsen should be appealed. Based on a look-up in our country on 22 February 2000, the advice given is to be withheld from the public. The report shows that the Church Council itself has no wish for this. What is the rationale of the Council of State that the opinion of the Council of Churches is to be withheld from the public?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1136	When I refer in the case of the representative, Ballo, have asked for a statement from the bishops and the Council of Churches, this is meant as a council in the department's internal consideration of the issue of whether the state should appeal the sentence of Alta court. The Advocate General's assessment of the judgment and of this office's recommendation on the matter of appeal followed as an annex to the ministry's letter to the Council of Churches and the bishops. By making such documents public, the Department could face a situation where one could be responsible for prosecuting matters in the media. This is an issue to which I think we need to pay attention. After an overall assessment, a result was that in this case it would be right to use the law of publicity § 5 to make exceptions to the general rule of publicity. I would also like to add that the department in a press release made it clear that a would seek advice from the ecclesiastical bodies, and that the letter of transmission to president, Bishop Bondevik, was public from the day it was sent. This shows that it has never been a goal to have a secret process, but to act in an orderly manner. When it turns out that several of the bishops have not found the basis to hold their advice from the public, and that all the statements have now been sent to the ministry, the ministry has come to the conclusion that the statements of the bishops and the Council of Churches in this matter will no longer be kept from the public. But the government attorney's assessment and recommendation will still be held back from public opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1143	I thank the Council of State for the last part of the answer. It's obvious that you no longer need to exclude from the public the advice you get. Although I have problems in following the reasoning and logic along the way, at least I understand that attention from the media and the press in relation to the ministry means that it will now be exempted from public opinion. I would like to ask the Council of State in the extension of it: is he now reasonably ready to appeal the matter that is here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1150	I am pleased that the representative Ballo is satisfied with the conclusion. It never meant anything but that it should be known what advice came when the decision was taken, as I also made public the advice that had come in the previous round when I took over as the Council of State. In relation to the process, there may be a lot to say about it, but from my point of view, it has never been intended that the public should not be able to see what the different organs mean. That's what processes you should have, which was my point. When it comes to the follow-up question from the representative of Ballo, I have to say that I do not want to deal with this matter from the Stortinget Chair. But of course, it should be clear before the deadline for appeal expires, and then I will of course also make it known.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1162	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: «In the autumn of 1999, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research appointed members of a working group to investigate the organisation and dimension of the State special educational support system for hearing impaired persons. What is the background and purpose of the appointment by the Administrative Board of State Special Educational Centres of two other working groups to explore co-location and the centres of expertise in the Bergens area and Oslo, respectively, before the Sunå Committee has examined the scope and needs of the hearing centres?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1171	The foundation for the creation of these two working groups, to which the representative Dørum refers, was the reduction in staffing from 1 August 1999 adopted by the Stortinget in the management of St.meld. No 23 for 1997-98. The aim of the two working groups was to allocate different models of interaction and possible co-location in Oslo and Bergen, so that savings in administrative costs and rental costs could be made professionally and financially. The Administrative Board of the State Special Educational Support System is responsible for the management of allocated funds in such a way as to maximise resources for the production of services for children, young people and adults with specific training needs. The board must therefore ensure that the operation is rational and effective. Operating costs that a saver saves will be transferred to increased service generation at municipal level, so that they can benefit users. As you know, one took in St.meld. No 23 do not raise the question of the reduction of the manning of hearing centres, and I would like to stress that there have been no plans to change the maning of these centres before the Sunå selection presents its setting. However, reduction of additives, including: at two centres for complex learning difficulties and a language and speech problems centre in Oslo and Bergen from 1 August 1999, a smaller area need for centres in these cities. Experience so far shows that it is possible to achieve substantial reductions in rents by making better use of the land. At the same time, it was possible to look at closer professional and administrative cooperation between neighbouring centres. Already in the spring of 1999, the board started a preliminary work on renegotiations of the rent agreements throughout the enterprise, and one of the tasks was to look at different models for a more rational operation of the four centres in Oslo and the two centres in Bergen. As part of this work, two working groups were set up at the Management Board meeting in September 1999. The Oslo Group was led by former Head of Mission Oddvar Vormeland and the Bergens Group by former Director of Education Per Kvist. The report of the two working groups shall be managed by the Management Board in March of this year. to look at possible measures to rationalise the rental and operation of dwellings in Oslo and Bergen. Although a group was set up on 12 October 1999 in order to eliminate the State special education system for hearing impairments, the so-called Sunå Committee, the Board nevertheless saw it necessary to continue its work on the assessment of resource use in general and land use in particular after the large reduction in the number of added centres on 1 August 1999, including: in Oslo and Bergen. The Ministry sees it as important that the Board of Directors continue to work to ensure that the allocated funds are used to the maximum extent possible, and that costs of administration, operation and housing are kept at a rational, efficient and defence level. The reports from the two selections are now available, and the Management Board will advise the Department on what to do. The Ministry maintained that the Management Board's work on the evaluation of the administrative and operational expenditure of the Centre in Oslo and Bergen did not entail measures that would bind the work of the Sunå Committee. I see it as little time to make significant changes at hearing centres before the Sun Sun selection submits its setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1192	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I welcome the fact that the Council of State will be completely free to assess the location and future of hearing centres, that there should be no binding on the two investigations now available. As far as I know, there is a concern that the centres should be co-located, as proposed by the two working groups. But the Council of State must understand that this is causing great unrest in a sector where there has already been a lot of concern. That is why his answer was so reassuring. I also think it is right that resources should be used as efficiently and as well as possible, and in this respect I would like to ask the Council of State to take a closer look at the means of operating the board, the secretariat, etc. As far as I know, it amounts to 20 million. And there's a lot for administration. One should perhaps consider this, that more should go to the efficient operation of the centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1201	I am pleased that the representative Dørum was satisfied with the answer and has confidence in our work process. I agree with the representative Dørum that it is understandable that it is easy to worry after quite so many years with some insecurity in this sector. Now I have to say that this has been less alarming in recent years, but I feel absolutely safe when the representative Dørum here comes along and assures us that we are not making any mistakes. When it concerns the amount the representative mentions is used for administration, it speaks out large. Now I remind you that in a transitional phase, there were some people who said that one should continue from both Hamar and Molde. There's also a lot of other issues that lie at stake, but I promise that we'll also look at that piece in conjunction with the other conclusions that we're now going to draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1208	Question 17 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1214	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘A small group of young people are dependent on taking their schooling in a warmer climate outside Norway because of their health status. Although such stays are recommended by a specialist and this significantly improves the quality of life and opportunities for learning, there is no public support for those in this situation. It also appears difficult to fall within the system of vocational retraining. What will the Council of State do to help these young people obtain the necessary training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1223	This issue concerns several aspects. It concerns, inter alia: the study funding scheme, medical rehabilitation benefits and occupational rehabilitation benefits. In the case of the training aid scheme, the general rule is that no aid may be granted to non-Nordic education at the level of secondary school in Norway. Derogations have been made, including: so that aid may be granted to upper secondary education in Norway when the applicant is resident abroad because of sickness. Furthermore, exceptions may be made in other cases where there are strong grounds for reasonableness. This derogation applies primarily to social cases, such as: students who have been subjected to heavy bullying at secondary school in Norway. I have obtained further information from the Minister of Health regarding benefits during medical rehabilitation. Rehabilitation benefits may be provided when the working capacity is reduced by at least 50 pst. due to illness. It is a condition for the person to receive active treatment. Rehabilitation benefits are usually provided for one year and the age limit is 18 years. The money is paid only during stays in Norway. On application before departure, this requirement may be waived for a limited period of time. Children and young people suffering from psoriasis, revmatism, asthma and lung diseases are currently able to participate in the State treatment scheme abroad administered by the Rikshospitalet. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health investigated in 1998 the possibility of providing financial support for stays without treatment, to which this issue would be comparable. State aid for residence in the South would, in the case of non-medical measures, be supported. On this basis, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health would not be in favour of financial support for such stays, as this would mean a new principle. In 1999, a sample was set up to assess the treatment travel scheme abroad. The selection would include, inter alia: assess whether the current system includes those patient groups that are most in need. The investigation shall be made subject to consultation. Access to training as part of vocational rehabilitation is known to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. From there I have obtained detailed information on the legislation governing re-employment that regulates the right to study abroad for a youth group in upper secondary school. It is a condition for entitlement to benefits in the course of vocational training that, because of sickness, injury or infirmity, the person has his/her ability to have a permanent job reduced or his/her ability to choose a profession or profession is substantially reduced. Recruitment benefits may be provided in connection with measures necessary to enable the member to obtain or maintain appropriate employment. In order to qualify for recovery aid, he must have reached the age of 16. In order to be entitled to recovery, he must have reached the age of 19. Younger persons in school, including: in secondary education, would normally not have earned rights under the Law on Social Security and would not have any loss of income to be compensated. In the case of persons under 22 years of age, school benefits may only be granted to a member who is in a situation which differs significantly from that of other young people because of illness, injury or negligence. Thus, there are relatively limited opportunities for young people in the relevant secondary school age groups to qualify for regular schooling as a vocational rehabilitation. This also applies to education provided in Norway. In addition, the general rule is that reintroduction is to be carried out in Norway. This is both due to control considerations and to the aim of reintroducing the work in question in Norway. This review shows that we have more and better arrangements to ensure that students receive education and training, even if they are in a difficult situation because of illness, injury or rehabilitation. The Ministry is therefore willing to see whether there are groups that need specific arrangements and that are currently falling between or outside existing schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1251	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The group of young people mentioned here is a very small group of disabled people. To struggle with, for example: Revmatism and other disorders from childhood are, of course, a major stress in themselves, both in terms of quality of life and the ability to learn — yes, it has a long way to go in life. I have been in contact with young people who are engaged in such schooling abroad, but who must stop if they are not given financial help. And it shouldn't be that it's the parent's economy that's going to be crucial for who gets the opportunity to do this. I understand it then so that the Council of State will take a closer look at this. I would ask the Council of State to try to clarify this so that the treatment can go quickly, and people with a diagnosis where the need is unquestionably get the application granted quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1260	I believe that one of the main problems in such matters as this is that there are few, and that there are few who know what kind of arrangements exist and how they can be combined. Of course, I only see that now when I've started getting information from at least three departments to try to get an overview to answer Arnesen's question, that this is difficult. And if you've seen the education going on before you've been able to figure this out, I think there's a new problem. We have strong demands for non-discrimination and good administration in relation to the rules of law that govern us, and it must be weighed up against an individual concern. Since this is about people who have a specific problem, I ask that the matter be sent to me, I will try to get it addressed to the department that most naturally belongs to. I can't promise support here and now, but at least we have to be able to look at it. So I encourage the representative Arnesen to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1272	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘When will the announced notification/proposition of the Church’s economy be submitted to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1279	During the treatment of the 1999 State Budget, the Stortingeten decided to ask the Government to present a comprehensive assessment of the economic situation in the Church following the introduction of new ecclesiastical legislation. The matter will be submitted to the Size View in the form of a separate message. In Stortinget on 15 December last year, I said that the message would be delivered in the new year, and in the orientation that the government sent to the Grand Duchy about matters in spring 2000, it says that the message about the economy in Kirkja comes in March. I can confirm this today by saying that if nothing unexpected happened, the Storting will receive the message during March.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1284	I'm happy with the answer that the Council of State here gives. But the Storting, or the Committee, was at that time also concerned that this should not necessarily be a message, because it would take time for you to get the economy properly, but that it should be a proposition. I'm asking if the Council of State also evaluates it, possibly a combination of this, so that we can secure the economy at an earlier date than what we can with just a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1289	First, I'd like to express joy at the representative Knudsen's commitment to the economic situation in Kyrkja. So I would say that of course I am prepared to come back to the Storting in the way that the committee wants me to come back. When you read the text and the decision that Stortinget made at the time, I still believe it is obvious that there is a message you have asked for. But I will try to make it possible to draw the consequences of this message as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1299	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘According to my information, the municipality of Oslo has sent letters with three other major cities, dated 13 August 1999, with subsequent reminders, concerning the coverage of the additional non-refundable costs of the municipality as a result of the implementation of the 6-year reform. [[Reform 97]] Will the Council of State ensure that answers are given as soon as possible, and that the municipalities of Oslo and the other municipalities of the country will be covered by the additional costs resulting from the introduction of Reform 97?’ I must be allowed to correct the date of the letter I am requesting. The correct date shall be 17 February 1999. I have informed the Council of State about this, and I regret the possible additional work this has done to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1310	It is true that the department has received a letter from Oslo, Kristiansand, Trondheim and Tromsø municipalities which are concerned with investment support in connection with Reform 97. I am sorry that the municipalities have not yet received a written reply, but one had to wait for the Stortinget to handle the Riksrevision's report. I want to make sure they get an answer as soon as possible. When it comes to the question of whether these and other municipalities have incurred additional investment costs in connection with Reform 97, which should have been covered by the state compensation, but is not, I would point out that Reform 97 is a particularly well-known investment reform. The compensation for local authorities is based on an investment framework based on objective criteria and a calculation basis. In other words, it has not been up to any reimbursement system. The case has been brought before and dealt with by the Storting at several times, and the Storting has joined in this way in compensating for reform-related additional investment costs. The Ministry has informed the municipalities about this. The National Audit Office submitted an administrative audit report before Christmas, Document No. 3:10 for 1998-99, the National Audit Office’s study of the school facilities grants and the reform 97 school leisure scheme, which was discussed by the United Kingdom on 3 December 1999. I would like to quote from the Riksrevisionen's question about this case: ‘The Court of Auditors notes that the Ministry and many municipalities have different views on what are reasonable and reasonable assumptions for full compensation,... and that several municipalities in different contexts have called for more clarification, deepening and clarification of the assumptions for the compensation model.’ The National Audit Office also points out that it is important to take into account the experience gained from work on Reform 97 in future reforms involving several levels of government. I totally agree with that. When it comes to the financial compensation for additional investment costs in connection with Reform 97, I look at the case that ended after the Stortinget’s examination of the Riksrevision report.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1328	I thank the Council of State for its positive response, which means that the municipalities will now receive an answer as soon as possible. With regard to the details of the content of the answer, we have to wait and see what specific details arise there when we have to assess whether the answer will be satisfactory. Because it is a fact that there is a great deal of disagreement between the majority of municipalities in the country and the Ministry of Coverage has been given. Among other things, the Control and Constitutional Committee has pointed out that it is right for municipalities to have full coverage of the additional expenditure incurred by the reform. There has also been criticism from the National Audit Office for the way in which the follow-up to Reform 97 has taken place. The National Audit Office has also found that the Ministry and many municipalities have different views on what are reasonable and reasonable assumptions for full compensation. But this we will come back to when the answer is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1342	First I would like to comment that the representative Danielsen said he was sorry that the letter was using the wrong date, and of course I appreciated that it was corrected. Then I will confirm that when the Riksrevision report was discussed here in December, the answer should of course all have been sent from us. Therefore, I repeat that it is going to happen ‘fastest advice is’. When it comes to the realities of Daag Danielsen, it is important to maintain that there are two types of government funding principle. One is reimbursement, the other is according to objective criteria. There was a selection of Hervik, which went through it, and the department has remained completely in line with the selection. Then there is an unsavory, as the representative Danielsen says. This has been pointed out by the National Audit Office, but it has not drawn any consequences other than that one has to look at the administration at a later date. That's what the Department will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1352	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Railway traffic through the Drangsdalen on the Sørlandsbanen is very risky. As a result, trains, among other things, have to go at a very reduced speed. What plans have the State Councils made to implement the new tunnel project in the Drangsdalen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1361	The Drangsdalen is a racist party on the Sørlandsbanen. There is a approved 1995 master plan for the conversion of the line into a tunnel in order to resolve this safety problem. The railway works are now performing a quality assurance of the current plan and costs. This work is not finished. As pointed out, it is correct that trains have to pass at reduced speed beyond the razed parts of the Drangs Valley, so that trains can stop if a race has passed. This helps to maintain the safety of the train running. I can inform you that the Railway Agency will conduct a specific risk analysis for the Drangsdalen in connection with the approval of tilting trains on the route by the Railway Authority. The work on this risk analysis has not been completed. The Drangsdalen is one of several racially exposed parties on the Norwegian rail network, and I would like to return to the sections on which it would be appropriate to give priority to racial protection measures as well as to the scope of these racial protection measures in the context of the submission of the National Transport Plan 2002-2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1370	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I might have wished would have been more forward-looking and more offensive than it was. The situation in the Drangsdalen is now that trains run 20 km an hour down, 40 km up. This applies even to the new signature trains. But the main point is security. We know that the line goes 80 to 85 meters up in the lia, with E39 on the bottom, and you can imagine the dimensions of an accident that might happen. This with an assessment of the risk situation, quality assurance, etc. Is well and good, but the starting point is that this has a job with a very long time. There have been several periods since the Stockholm Transport Committee visited the area. So my question to the Council of State is: Will he make sure that this comes into the national transport plan at the first treatment we get in spring in Stortinget? For reasons of safety, this is the most required.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1381	As the representative underlines, this is not a new situation. It has existed for a long, long time – we should always say, ever since there was traffic in the area. Now we're going to deal with this in connection with NTP, the National Transport Plan. This will then be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way. I would therefore expect the Stortinget to also make the necessary priorities in this context. For this route, as for some other sections, it will be necessary to clarify both priorities, costs and a timetable for implementation. In the meantime, we are taking the necessary safety measures so that accidents do not occur. This means that we have to adapt the speed to the conditions, and then we get to follow the Railway Authority's instructions when they have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1391	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘According to the World Gang on 24 February 2000, Lambertseter Social Office has surrendered a social client $478 595 of debt despite the fact that the man had wealth. He now owns two apartments and has the rental income of one in addition to his disability pension. He has also received social assistance for three children while they were in Pakistan. What will the Council of State do to ensure that not ordinary people, who have worn out a whole life to own housing, lose faith in Norwegian social services, and to create more equality between social clients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1400	The main responsibility for social services lies with the municipalities. The laws give municipalities the freedom to use discretion when deciding whether to require reimbursement in social security payments. At the same time, they must stay within the framework of social services laws and administrative laws: the social services must – as any management body – ensure that matters are informed as thoroughly as possible before they can take decisions. I have been in contact with the Municipality of Oslo about the case representative Nesvik refers to, and the municipality confirms that the matter is largely properly produced in the daily press. It's clear that the social services routines have failed. The municipality states that it is now discussing the need for a review of routines and powers with a view to tightening up the current routines. The rules of procedure shall include: prevent us from getting unreasonable results. Unfortunately, there is no guarantee that errors occur from time to time. That's why we have complaints, control procedures and systems to fix such errors. In the courts where someone deliberately provides incorrect information or teats with information in order to get a higher opinion, social services laws have rules on recovery. In such circumstances, the social service must also assess whether the cases should be reported to the police. I have been informed that the Municipality of Oslo is already following this case and that the procedures will be tightened up. In order to sustain the welfare state, it is important that people trust him. At the same time as the social service needs to be able to address individual needs, it is an objective that the social service has the most common practice in municipalities. In St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99, the Anti-Smoking Communication, suggests that the Government introduce State standards for economic support for life support. I think this will reduce any differences in the level of benefit between municipalities. Normalised rates will also be able to streamline the management of the case so that the social service will have more time to follow up each individual beneficiary in a defence way. I would also like to draw attention to the ‘Knowledge and Brewing’ action plan, a plan we have put in place to equip them at social offices to do an even better job. Through this work, the Ministry aims to increase the quality of the social services management. One of the objectives is to get a more uniform practice when it comes to financial support around the municipalities. This will now be followed up by the community through the implementation of targeted training and the provision of qualified guidance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1415	The social director of Lambertseter City said to the VG that she was the one who granted the client's application, and that there was no illegality on the occasion of the case. It is not acceptable for some social services to be able to make these kinds of decisions, and the Progress Party will come back with a Document No. 8 proposals that could contribute to better control and popular governance of social services, so that they cannot be paid out or abandoned to some large sums without proper control and review of matters. Can the Council of State really accept that Norwegian social offices can grant what amounts to be, without conducting necessary studies on the client’s relationship – is it really enough to believe that there is no money to collect, as it says in the VG? The Council of State will look into this matter and ensure that an in-depth assessment is made of, among other things, whether or not it is necessary. Are the correct surveys around the relationships of a social client, which are completely deficient here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1422	Paragraph 17 of the Administration Act states the following: ‘The management body shall ensure that the matter is as well informed as possible before a decision is taken.’;» I have already underlined the contact that has been with the Municipality of Oslo just to get information about how things have been handled by the municipality. It's clear that the social services routines have failed. The municipality informs us that they themselves are now going through routines and powers to prevent us from getting such a case again. I have also pointed to it in both the Equalisation message and in the Knowledge and Bride Building, just to stress that there is a need for further work to improve the handling of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1435	This question, from John I. Alvheim, to the Minister of Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1438	My question then goes to the Minister of Health: ‘In the evening post of 17 February 2000, one could read that 4 out of 10 revenators cannot afford to obtain the most effective medicines and follow recommended medical treatment. Around 100,000 revenmatics suffer unnecessarily from poor economics, according to a study by the Norwegian Revmatikerbund. I think it is a paradox that a rich country like Norway has a health service that favors them with the best economy. Can the Council of State consider contributing to these and other patients getting the offer that the doctor thinks is best?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1447	The study referred to in the question asked by the representative Alvheim shows that chronically ill people may have some significant costs of health care in addition to the system of capped costs of abstinence. Self-employment includes medical and psychological assistance, blue prescription medicines and sick transportation. Revmaticians will also often need physical treatment and medicines on white prescriptions, including: for pain management. Many will also benefit from stay at training establishments or treatment trips abroad, with physical treatment and training in hot water. Social security contributes to upkeep, but the proportion of it can be significant. In the case of processing trips abroad financed by the State budget, there is an excess of DKK 100 per year. 24 hours. In addition to state-organised treatment trips, organisations organise health trips to the South. I can mention that the Norwegian Revmatics Association is establishing a modern treatment site with 185 places in Spain. In such health travel, public health can contribute to physical treatment at a fee rate, i.e. without a special interest for the patient. The referenced study provides evidence of economic conditions for groups of scratches. As is well known, the Ministry, on the basis of the decision taken by the Storting at the 1999 budgetary procedure, has undertaken extensive work with a view to assessing better protection arrangements for chroniclers and other major healthcare users. I expect that this work will identify the areas where the needs are greatest, and thus provide a basis for assessing measures. In addition, as part of the follow-up to the rehabilitation notification, the Ministry has launched a separate assessment of the funding mechanism for the training institutions. In addition, I have just received suggestions from a sample that has reviewed the arrangements and the treatment travel arrangements abroad, which also concerns the issue of excesses. I will come back to Stortinget with the results of this work on the submission of proposals for the 2001 government budget, and my aim is to arrive at schemes that better protect the large consumers. I am aware that new anti-revmatic medicines are on their way into the Norwegian market. The drugs are so new that none of them have yet received a marketing authorisation in Norway. However, they are available through the exemption scheme, where individual doctors apply to the State Medicines Control Authority for a provisional prescription for one or more patients. Non-market products are not included in the blue prescription list, but may in some cases be refunded on an individual application. In a short time, these medicinal products are likely to be granted marketing authorisation in Norway. I assume that there will also be an application for inclusion in the prescription scheme, which will then be assessed according to the applicable guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1458	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer and am pleased that the Minister of Health is taking a positive view of protecting the large consumers. The problem of poor finances and high health costs among different chronicler groups is not unknown. Only in the last four years have excesses in health services and medicine increased by about 10 %. 40 pst. The increase is not dramatic, says State Secretary Malme to the Evening Post. No, with a State Secretary's salary, the increase may not be dramatic, but for chronically ill people who have income equal to one quarter of a State Secretary's salary, the increase may be life-threatening. This disease tax now represents a quarter of the total hospital expenditure. Does the Minister of Health think that this disease tax is fair and in line with his own notification of health care values?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1465	I assume there were statements from State Secretary Holme and not State Secretary Malme's representative Alvheim referred to. State Secretary Holmes’ points were linked to the self-proprietary increase in the state budget treatment for 2000, and then, as you know, an adjustment was made approximately in the pay and price bill. What is, however, a common concern of the representative, Alvheim and I, is that today we have a self-share system that does not protect the large consumers well enough. I believe that it should be possible to find protective arrangements that allow the few who have large expenses to pay less, and then I think that the many who have small expenses can pay something more. It will be more consistent with the values I want to stand for in health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1473	I want to ask the Social Minister the following questions: ‘As early as 1998, the Minister of Social Affairs took the initiative to clean up the war child issue. This has led, inter alia, to a thorough monitoring of the best possible basis for upliftment, including in relation to financial compensation. Now the mass media reports that seven war children who have filed an action for damages against the state do not reach out because the state has invoked the limitation of the case. How can there be consistency between these actions?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1482	In November 1998, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health commissioned the Norwegian Research Council to develop a knowledge status on the situation of war children in Norway after the war. The background of the mission was the extra attention on the children of war and their growth. There were claims about, among other things. public understatement of means, harassment and abuse of power. The report ‘Children of the Enemies?’ by the Norwegian Research Council was ready in June 1999. Although some of the claims made are rejected in the report, or at least somewhat weakened, the report also shows that many war children have suffered a great deal of harm. A main message in the report is that we need more knowledge about this part of our history. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is working on the design of a new assignment to the Norwegian Research Council to continue the work started. The work is in close contact with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Education and Research. The government is investing in a more comprehensive documentation work here to find out what happened and how this has been done. These are complex questions, and to get on track, one needs to look at both political and professional views and more popular views of the war children of their time. Documentation will include: provide a completely different basis for the claim for legal compensation — also known as ‘qualification’ — than the war children have had at present. Seven warborns have brought legal action against the State claiming compensation/repudiation for human rights violations. In these cases, the state asserts that the requirements have expired. The background is that the situation is so far back in time that it will be very difficult to prove it. The government has no doubt that those who have now filed an action against the state have had bad experiences during the post-war period in Norway. However, we cannot fail to show that the cases as legal proceedings have expired. I can't find it right here to go into this matter which is now to be dealt with in the legal system. I am fully aware that it may be difficult to see the difference between, on the one hand, the research and investigation work that has been undertaken by the Ministry and that applies to all children of war, and, on the other hand, the legal requirements that seven children of war have faced. In these difficult cases there are two ways forward towards the creation of the harm the war children have been exposed to. The one way is within the legal system, the other outside. The way of the courts is, in my opinion, the heaviest way of walking for the individual. The cases are so old that it is very difficult, if not impossible, to provide proof that is good enough for a judicial trial of liability. The other road is through political follow-up. This road includes acceptance, documentation, moral upliftment and, if necessary, financial compensation. The size of the institution manages legal compensation, i.e. ‘qualification’. Here, there are completely different and somewhat more ‘mild’ evidence requirements than in the courtroom. In its work on applications for legal compensation, the government will take into account its own interpretations of its experiences, as well as the evidence currently being provided. The fact that the government has now taken hold of this matter, means that we have given the war children accepted. I would also like to show that the Prime Minister in his New Year's speech has given moral upliftment on behalf of the State. Once the research work has progressed, we will have the basis to assess whether it is time to set up a separate selection to look at a replacement scheme. Well, in that case, I'll have to get back to you. I will finally learn that the ministry has had and has close contact with the war children's organizations. Their views and attitudes have been of great help to the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1505	I thank the Minister for the answer. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister of Social Affairs and the Government for addressing this matter. It is the first government that has taken this question seriously and tried to give up and excuse our war children. There have been very many unfortunate press releases in this case, and I must say that there has not been any good will to distinguish between getting a discount from the legal system and being able to get an upliftment, as the Council of State here mentions. I would like to ask that the research that is now under way go quickly, and that a person get a real and concrete plan for how this compensation and upliftment are to be done. I think there are clear indications that there should be such an uproar and a financial reward, and that one also looks at whether there should be a separate sample that brings this case to a close. With the response the Council of State gave today, it cannot at least be said, as a newspaper said in the leadership here today, that according to the Minister of Social Affairs, war children cannot be compensated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1512	I want to confirm the last thing that Mr D. Glötvold said here. The government is already involved in identifying more people according to the need for documentation. We have allocated responsibility among the departments to help with this – everything from baptismal certificates to other documents and information, and there is also a clear White Paper with a collection of public documents, after the first research round. I was criticised that I had had such a hurry with the first assignment. I gave the Norwegian Research Council four months on the assignment – and they managed to get a lot out of it – because we wanted to take a first step on the road. I want to confirm that the research will take a short time, but that it will be as extensive as it is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1523	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «A resident of Conrad Svendsen Center shall be moved from this centre to the municipality of his parents for his own sake. [[CSS]] He is deaf and has widespread mental distress. Today he has a good treatment offer in a sign-language environment. Unfortunately, the municipality cannot offer similar arrangements. Governments have expressed understanding of the problem in letters to parents. What will the Council of State do in this matter, and will the Council of State ensure the rights of this very marginal group of disabled persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1532	I have recently responded to a letter from parents to a resident at Conrad Svendsen Center – CSS – who is afraid to lose this offer. I understood from the letter from my parents that the municipality had not yet taken a decision to build a local offer. Any decision will be considered to be a simple decision in relation to the rights attached to it, as well as the right to complain to the county councillor or county doctor about the offer given. I don't think it's right for me to go closer to this special case than this. I can add that I know that the centre and the municipality are working on the matter. In view of the future of the CSS, I'm going to do a little bit of good for the work currently in progress on what status CSS is going to have. CSS is an institution with 80 places for deaf people with different additional disabilities. Many people need extensive specialised services in a custom sign language environment. The institution is located in Oslo, is run by the Foundation Home for Deaf and is at Oslo Municipality's health plan. The CSS currently has the status of a specialised hospital and is regulated by hospital law. The Ministry suggests that a new law on specialist health services replaces the hospital law as of 1 January 2001. Most CSS services are not defined as specialist health services. It is thus possible that, from that time on, the funding of places on the CSS will no longer be defined as a municipal responsibility, and that from the same time the municipalities will assume responsibility for the care services, the primary health services and the social services, or at the same time find a practical solution to the financing of the specialist healthcare services. This is a consequence of the setup in connection with the rehabilitation message, St.meld. No 21 for 1998-99 Responsibilities and meistering, where the Government, in line with the recommendations of NOU 1995:14, County long-term institutions, suggested that specialist hospitals should gradually be decommissioned. In connection with the handling of this message, the Social Committee gave the Innst. S. No 178 for 1998-99 expression, etc. this: ‘The Committee considers it important that clarification be made as soon as possible regarding the further operation of this centre.’ I think that in practice it would be difficult to provide a good enough supply locally for many of the people with disabilities who are currently receiving a CSS offer. This is particularly related to having to communicate in sign language. Most places in the country do not have a sign language environment. In many cases, the assistant does not have the ability to communicate in the language used by the deaf. It is therefore important that the good competence of the CSS has been built up, maintained and maintained even when the CSS is no longer regulated as a specialised hospital. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently actively working to find a solution to the question of financing the supply of the group of disabled people who currently live on the CSS. Representatives from the Department have been visiting Conrad Svendsen Senter in February, and it has been a special meeting with the Municipality of Oslo and CSS. I cannot go into detail about the work that is going on in the ministry. But let me stress that I want to make arrangements for the municipalities to choose to give the users who want it and need it, an offer of services at the Conrad Svendsen Center. When it comes to the problem, the municipalities decide on the services, but the service provider should be formed as far as possible in cooperation with the user. This should be in relation to, inter alia: social service laws place great emphasis on what the user thinks. The financing of specialist health services must also be ensured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1550	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to stress that I am trying to avoid raising questions about individuals. But we're talking here about such a marginal group that it's almost impossible to touch on individual cases when you're dealing with rights issues. I want to ask a fundamental question. I believe that even people in such a situation must have respect for their own views, especially when it comes to the choice of place of residence and other aspects of the situation of life. I do not think that, in my view, this more solar court is well taken care of in this specific case. I would like to ask the Council of State whether there are any reasons why people with disabilities in such a situation need to have a more real influence on their own situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1559	I'd like to pay tribute to Bendiks H. Arnesen's representative for addressing a question like this. I share his commitment to ensuring the best possible services. I share the concerns he's coming with in relation to even better than today to pay attention to the user's own opinion. The first point was a decision in the municipality as the basis for which the municipality wanted to, wanted and could set up. The next is the relationship with Conrad Svendsen Senter and per. today also the relationship with the county. I know that this is a matter that is now being worked on, and I am going to go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1566	We're going back to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1572	This question, from the representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1575	«Norway Research Council has rejected an application for research into genetic risk. The Norwegian Research Council is currently funding no projects on health risks related to genetic food, and worldwide research has been largely carried out by producers of gene food, and where it is linked to economic self-interest with the results of the research. What action will the Council of State take in order to carry out public research in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1582	The research funds of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are allocated to the Norwegian Research Council, NFR, which then deals with all applications on the basis of scientific criteria. The letter of award to the Research Council of the Ministry sets out certain guidelines in which areas the Ministry wants the Research Council to give priority, but this remains at a general level and not in relation to each application, so that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health does not normally decide which research projects should be supported. The funds of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health go largely to the field of medicine and health. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health provided a direct grant for the operation of the Norwegian Institute of Genetics in 1999. Studies carried out by this Institute include studies on the risks involved in the application of genetic engineering and genetic modification. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has obtained information from the Norwegian Research Council on current research on genetic health risks. Within the research prioritised by the Research Council, there are several possibilities to support projects with health and environmental issues related to genetically modified food, so-called GMOs. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is a prerequisite for the Research Council to receive applications that address research questions about GMOs. To date, the Council has received relatively few applications from research communities on this topic. The few applications received have come to the field of bio-production and processing. The field of medicine and health received no applications under this theme for 2000. With the limited resources available to the Research Council, the majority of applications considered to be highly professional must be rejected. Only 15-20 psts are granted within the scope of the initiatives relevant to GMO applications in the field of bio-production and processing. of applications received. The Research Council emphasises the use of strict rules relating to the stability of the decision-making procedure. The government submitted in St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000 a new research programme for food and health followed up by the Norwegian Research Council in the fields of medicine and health, and bioproduction and processing. The Research Council received 13 applications, but no applications related to gene food. Nor has the Research Council received any applications for health and environmental effects of GMOs from the Norwegian food industry. It is the Council’s view that the food industry in Norway accepts the scepticism that Norwegian consumers have for genetically modified food and therefore does not intend to develop such products for the Norwegian market today. I consider it important that the research area should be stepped up and given priority in the future, and that framework conditions should be provided to enable this. This depends on the decisions of many actors, such as: individual research institutions, industry, the Research Council and several departments. The challenge is to get actors to move in the same direction. I refer in this context to St. gemeld. No 39 for 1998-99, Research at a time gap, which was recently treated in Stortinget. This Communication draws up guidelines and strategies for research policy which will also be important for this field of research. I will initiate a dialogue with the Norwegian Research Council on how best to strengthen research efforts in this area. In addition to the active research carried out, the Government has set up a public body to assess the knowledge base with regard to the health consequences of the use of genetically modified food and food ingredients. One of the tasks of this sample is just to point out knowledge gaps, and I expect that the setting of the sample, which is due on 1 October 2000, will provide a basis for even more precise assessment of the concrete research needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1605	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I would like to stress that SV and the Government hardly have any cross-cutting interests in this matter. I would like to refer to a headline in the Class Fight on 25 February of this year, where the Medical Association comments on statements made by the head of the Norwegian Research Council, Christian Hambro. Terje Vigen of the Medical Association says to the Class Fight: «I feel that the Research Council has a very one-sided focus. There is little room for critical analysis’» In the same newspaper, and in the same article, Christian Hambro was interviewed as head of the Norwegian Research Council. He believes that the Government’s critical consultation notes on directives – in this case on patents on life – have ‘began to lead the debate on wild roads’. In addition, Hambro states: ‘The government must accept the EU Patent Directive, otherwise business will be forced to move from Norway.’ I am aware that the Patent Directive does not address the exact same issue relating to genetically modified organisms. But what you see here, in my view, is a position of the Research Council which makes you ask yourself: are there such reasons that you are not willing to go in and research on genetics, i.e. close to business?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1624	I can confirm that I initially have much of the same commitment in terms of genetically modified food, as I have seen that the representative Ballo has expressed it. However, I cannot participate in the kind of public criticism of named officials to which he is now inviting, and it is on the basis of a completely different matter than what this question-time question is about. I agree that it is the Government, based in the United Kingdom, that draws up the guidelines for research policy. On the basis of what has been drawn up in the Research Communication and the State Budget for 2000, I want to have a dialogue with the Norwegian Research Council on how to strengthen research in this area, and I assume that there will be a good dialogue with mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1629	So we go to question 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1635	I will ask the Minister for Health the following question: ‘An attempt to change the homophilic orientation of people is contrary to the values underlying the attitude of the Norwegian society towards minorities, acceptance and non-discrimination. In particular, it is when organisations and health professionals use their competence to legitimise such abuses. Have Christian health workers been reported to their respective county doctors for participating in the ‘sexual recovery of homosexuals’, and what is the Council of State’s position on this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1644	In the February 3, 1999, Question Time, I made it clear in a reply to the representative of the Eyegen regarding homophilia that it is not a disease. It's been many years since homophilia was removed as a medical diagnosis. Thus, it is not a condition that is relevant for the health care system to treat. I am dealing with this as Minister of Health. Of course, homofiles have the same right to health care, with the same requirements of soundness, as any other. For officially approved or authorised health professionals, the professional law limits their activities. When exercising their health profession, they must remain within the scope of acceptable health requirements within that profession. Health professionals shall meet patients with respect. As far as health professionals are concerned in relation to the legislation and standards to which they are subject, there is a matter for the supervisory authorities, as in other areas. Health surveillance, as the supervisory authority as a whole, does not know that health professionals have been reported to county doctors for participating in activities involving attempts to change the orientation of homosexuals. If such a case is brought to the attention of the county doctor, it will be treated as an individual supervision case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1653	I'm glad that the Council of State here again expresses its position, which is contrary to the attitude that the Council of Churches shows by going across the ethics of our society. I am also pleased that the Council of State here can confirm that no health professionals have been reported to the county doctors. This has flourished like a rumor, but has now been canceled by the Council of State. However, I would like to ask the Council of State a question, and it is whether the Minister of Health has received an application from the same organisation that the Council of Churches has now provided support for the cure of homophilia.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1658	I choose not to go into the premise either for the main question or the supplementary question that Grete Knudsen is now asking, other than in relation to what is my responsibility as Minister of Health. But I will respond to that, and my information is based on a letter from the State Health Authority, which states that the Health Authority does not know that health professionals have been reported to county doctors for participating in those activities. So to the question if I have received an application. You should always be careful to answer such questions categorically when you run a large department with a comprehensive correspondence, but I don't know any such application, here I stand, and to the extent that I should receive one, I can't see that I would be the right address for such an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1668	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Med 3 AS in Ålesund applies during these days for the establishment of 5 overnight/observation beds. They mainly see the need for increased surgery services in the area of ear-nose neck, eye, orthopaedic surgery, general surgery, plastic surgery and gynaecology. In all these areas, they have their own specialists, and they have made agreements with qualified anaesthetics. Will the Council of State take a positive view of this application so that this offer can be launched as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1677	Media 3 AS in Ålesund applied in 1991 for approval of daily observation post with up to five beds. Their application was rejected in 1993. The reason for the rejection was the Ministry’s assessment that the approval of Medi 3 AS as a hospital ‘would lead to a conflict with the national objective of an equivalent and satisfactory healthcare for all due to competition for health professionals in the area’. A new application for approval of the daily observation post of Medi 3 AS has since been submitted to the State Health Authority for professional evaluation. In this context, the County Board of More and Romesdal has recently been inspecting the premises. With a 24-hour observation post, Medi 3 AS by law will be considered to be a hospital. The application will therefore be dealt with in accordance with the applicable rules for the approval of hospitals based on the Hospital Act and the Mental Health Protection Act. The authority to approve the establishment plan, or substantial changes, of the hospital's activities is situated in the Ministry of Social and Health. As of 1 January 1999, the hospital law has acquired a new section 2a, which formalises regional cooperation and obliges the county councils which constitute a health region to draw up regional health plans. Regional health plans will be drawn up in 2000 and will be adopted by the Ministry during February 2001. An interim system has been established to be in place until the regional health plans have been adopted by the Ministry. In cases where an authorisation is required by the Ministry of Social and Health, which, when an application is made for authorisation of a daily observation post by Medi 3 AS, the plans for establishment or change shall be examined and evaluated in a regional perspective. When the matter is submitted to the Ministry of Approval, the main elements of the functional programme shall have been submitted to the Regional Health Committee. The opinion of the Regional Health Committee shall follow the case and a description of how each measure is related to the regional plan, if any. I ask for an understanding that I cannot or do not want to take a decision on such individual matters in the Questionnaire until the Ministry has received all the information on the matter and dealt with the application. However, due to the length of the procedure in this case, the Ministry will give priority to dealing with the matter. However, the Ministry presupposes that the application is processed under the applicable legislation. In the assessment of the case, consideration of the total capacity and needs of the county municipality, including specialised health professionals, will also have to be central.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1690	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I did not expect the Council of State to say yes here in Stortinget. In any case, there would be a new record in the department's proceedings, and such records are hardly likely to be experienced in Stortinget. But there was one thing the Minister of Health was not in his post, and that was that on April 17, 1993, a complaint was filed against the department's rejection of it with observation beds. There you never experienced any answers, and you've reminded me repeatedly. In particular, a letter was sent on 14 May 1998 asking for the answer. At least I hope that you really want to start working on this matter, so that you get a trial period that is to live with this institute in Ålesund, and that the citizens of the city and the county get this offer. It must be possible to ask questions when the documents relating to the appeal itself are not even available, either in the ministry or in other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1697	I can agree with the representative Nesvik that some record in short time does not represent this matter. It wouldn't have done that no matter what I had answered here today, because it has a long history. The Ministry considered the letter of 1 November 1995 from Medi 3 AS to be a new application and sent it to the State Health Authority, and we have in letters both 1998 and 1999 requested a response from the Health Authority to this application. I say that because there is a clear trace of follow-up from the department in the proceedings. But I now want to take an initiative to get this case settled and settled, because it has been going on for too long in the system, and there are no parties that have earned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1707	I will again ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘Until now, a liberal distribution of the ‘aggression’ has been practised, mainly through health centres, midwives and health sisters. State health surveillance has now reinforced the fact that the ‘injection’ is prescribed and can only be prescribed by a doctor. Will the Council of State take an initiative against the producer of the ‘injection’ in order to remove the prescription?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1716	The issue of the withdrawal of the prescription of Tetragynon, referred to as an ‘attackille’, has been assessed by the State Control Committee for Medicinal Products, SLK, which concluded that the product could safely be sold without prescription, and a decision was taken to sell Tetragynon free of charge from 1 January 1997. The manufacturer opposed this Decision and threatened to withdraw the product from the market if the prescription was lifted. On this basis, the implementation of the Decision of the SLK was suspended so that the preparation could still be available on the Norwegian market, but on prescription. The Ministry contacted the manufacturer in February this year. The manufacturer made it clear that the non-prescription sale of the product is still not appropriate. The initiative called for by Mr Alvheim has thus already been tried. In the wake of the discussion on the prescription waiver for Tetragynon, the Health Authority received several enquiries proposing how the product could be made more accessible. One of the proposals was that pharmacies should be able to delegate the power to deliver Tetragynon without medical consultation, provided that women completed a form on their own health status. The completed form would then act as a prescription. These enquiries led to a reminder of the current legislation by the Health Inspectorate: only doctors can print prescriptions. But once the prescription is written, the doctor may delegate the extradition to others. Prescription of Tetragynon without the doctor having seen or talked to the woman would be contrary to the Medical Act § 25 on Good Practice. Thus, health surveillance did not tighten up on practice, but on legislation, as they do on a number of other occasions. The health oversight position and the legislation they administer have been the same throughout this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1725	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. I again experience that the Minister of Health is a bit ahead of myself in such matters, and that is nice. I hope that the product currently available for sale, for example in France, will be approved as soon as possible in Norway. There may be divided opinions on the use of the ‘infested’ as a contraceptive, but as long as this is used to prevent unwanted pregnancy, it is correct that the tablets are readily accessible and available in midwives and health centres. My question is: is there any reliable evidence that the number of abortions has decreased as a result of the use of the ‘infection device’?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1734	It's a pleasure to be in front of the representative Alvheim as long as he appreciates it himself. And we're going to try to keep going. With regard to the questions put by the representative Alvheim, it is correct that there are different views on the use of the ‘infested person’. However, there is a legally binding administrative decision here, which is also based on a majority in the United Kingdom, and then it is a task to seek to implement it as far as possible. However, when implementation can mean that the product is not made available on the market at all, it has not been put into action. I think that has also been a proper assessment, which has been widely agreed. I cannot here and now explain the documentation that may be present regarding the effect of the use of this drug in relation to the prevention of abortion. However, there is a controlled trial of the distribution of pills in Trondheim, following prior treatment here in Stortinget, and the current trial will be carefully evaluated. In this context, we will also be able to get answers to related questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1746	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘For many years, the large number of Corridor Asians has been a stumbling block to our healthcare system. Is there a large number of Corridor Asians due to a lack of clean physical space for beds, or to a lack of nurses or assistants to serve the beds?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1755	The representative of Gundersen asks a good and precise question, but it is not a question to which a simple answer can be given. Overlays and corridors in the major hospitals are a significant problem. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health included this in the 1998 letter of allocation to the State Health Authority and asked for a monitoring of capacity and operational conditions in a selection of hospitals. This issue has been addressed by the Health Inspectorate, and a report from November 1998 and a new recent report from December 1999 show the extent of this issue. As regards loading and overcoating, the report concludes that, for a large part, there are the same hospitals that now have corridor Asians, as in 1998. However, the survey shows that county councils as owners show different levels of involvement to change the situation. While some municipalities have made considerable efforts to improve conditions, others seem rather passive in addressing this serious problem. In addition to the Health Inspectorate, the county councils follow up on supervision and system audits. The Health Inspectorate's general report on overcoating is now being followed up by the Department both in relation to the Health Inspectorate and in relation to the hospital owners, precisely because we see that the hospital owners' own efforts actually matter. The emergence of new and improved treatment approaches is not least an important reason for problems with Corridor Asians, which is a growing demand for hospital services. When Stortinget adopted the introduction of input-driven funding, it was primarily to encourage hospitals to treat more patients. From 1997 until now, payments for input-driven financing have increased by around DKK 1.8 billion. And it's worked. In this period, hospitals have had a significant increase in activity. The breaches of the new waiting guarantee have fallen significantly. It's a development that you can be satisfied with. Furthermore, assessments of efficiency developments in Norwegian hospitals show that the overall use of resources now appears to be better than in the 1990s, particularly due to better use of bed capacity. On the other hand, the growth in treatment activity in Norwegian hospitals has been greater than expected by both the State and the county authorities themselves, which pressure the economy of the county councils because the free income framework has not taken account of such an increase in activity. At the same time, there is much evidence that we have had a cost increase in the hospital sector that reinforces the problems. This is one of the starting points of the proposals that the Government is now working on. At the end of this month we will present a proposal for the Storting, where we will look at the financial framework conditions for county municipalities and their hospital operations, and get a better basis for input-driven financing and management of this scheme. The main challenges of the health service are to improve resource use in terms of money, personnel and equipment, as well as to address organisational issues and improve internal governance. Lack of land is likely to be of minor importance in this context. The health and social sector seized 8 pst 25 years ago. by the labour force. Now the number is 17 pst. During the same period, the use of doctors and nurses by hospitals has increased by more than 70 pst., while there has been a marked decrease in the use of other groups, e.g. auxiliary caregivers. The allocation of personnel and the use of human resources need to be given greater attention. We can't keep using personnel that's scarce, for tasks that other groups could do just as well or better. The Ministry is actively following up these questions to hospital owners through the ‘Hospital Organisational Development Forum’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1768	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This was actually a problem even in the period when I was on the Social Committee, from 1981 to 1985, and I have never fully understood what it means that there is a lack of beds. Now I understood the council so that there is no lack of a physical bed and a place for a bed somewhere in the hospital, but there must be a lack of someone who can look after the patient and serve the bed. My question is, wouldn't it usually be better to place a patient in a normal hospital under the supervision of an assistant nurse than to leave him lying and being shy of traffic in the hallways and corridors? My question is further: is there a lack of help caregivers in this sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1777	I can imagine that given that it is an open-ended hospital, given that it is an accessible assistant, and given that the patient's condition warrants it, the solution the representative Gundersen now prescribes will be the best. But as a general answer to a complicated question, it becomes too simple. For my part, I would like to insist that, in addition to spending money, personnel and equipment, this has some to do with resource access – I come back to that in the proposition in March – but it also has a great deal to do with how to organise the business at the individual hospital. It shows the fact that there are differences between county municipalities that have engaged as owners of this problem and counties that have not engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1787	In any case, I would like to try with my cold-suffering voice to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A number of Norwegian schools have asbestos-containing building materials. Asbestos is a highly harmful material which has been prohibited from being imported, produced and sold in Norway. The odd school in Kristiansand was recently closed when asbestos detection was found. If schoolchildren are exposed to dust exposure from asbestos, this is a very serious matter. Can the Governments explain their views on this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1796	It is possible that in this my seventh question time response today will show that I have the same diagnosis as the questioner, but I will still try to answer it. Asbestos was introduced in the late 1800s, but its prevalence in Norway was greatest between 1940 and 1980. Only a small part is now renovated from buildings and installations. Asbestos has carcinogenic properties. The concentration of asbestos fibres in air outside the working environment is usually very low. Even in buildings where asbestos-containing building materials are present, fiber concentrations are low so that they do not represent a real risk of developing cancer. This is why, in 1996, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health gave Folkehelsa the task of updating the professional basis for the standards of indoor air quality. Folkehelsa published the report 'Recommended professional standards for indoor climates', including standards for asbestos. Practical advice on the management of a possible exposure situation is also provided. These standards are an important part of the professional basis for the supervision of healthcare in municipalities. As mentioned above, not all asbestos has been decontaminated from the existing building stock. However, well maintained asbestos materials do not emit asbestos. Sources of measurable asbestos fibre concentrations in indoor air have usually been materials where the surface is not sufficiently sealed, e.g. as a result of direct mechanical action, moisture damage or neglected maintenance. The handling of asbestos and asbestos-containing materials is regulated by the Working Environment Act, the Product Control Act and the Asbestos Regulation. The Code is managed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. All work on and remediation of asbestos materials shall be notified to the Labour Inspectorate. I understand that it is the Working Environment Act that is the basis for the measures recommended for the school to which Andersen refers in his question. An effect of prolonged occupational exposure to asbestos is diffuse connective tissue formation in the pulmonary tissue. In long-term occupational groups, a safe relationship has also been established between high-grade asbestos exposure and lung and respiratory cancer, or in the pleural and peritoneal system. However, the concentration of asbestos fibres in air outside the working environment is usually very low and does not represent a real risk for the development of cancer or other asbestos-related lung disease. Normally low background values, however, can easily increase dramatically and now unacceptable levels of risk, for example. as a result of poorly maintained products containing asbestos or in the case of improperly refurbished asbestos. There is a legitimate suspicion of asbestos exposure in the school environment, for example: damaged asbestos materials in school buildings are the responsibility of the municipality under the Local Health Services Act and the associated regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools to initiate sampling and maintenance deficiencies. For asbestos fibre exposure above a certain level, appropriate measures must be taken. This may occur from time to time, for example: involve the temporary closure of a school facility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1813	The President noted the Minister's state of health and the state of the questioner, and the President probably suspects that more people in the Chamber too are affected by this. And that might be why there are relatively few people present in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1816	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to remind you that the Labour Inspectorate's regulations for asbestos state that there is no lower safe limit to the asbestos content in the air. There is no doubt today that we are facing a very dangerous material, which is therefore prohibited both imported, produced and traded in Norway. However, it is a fact that a large number of Norwegian schools are made up of precisely this health-damaging material both inside and outside. The point is that in the event of inadequate maintenance, rehabilitation or warfare, this dangerous material is easy to release, and it spreads around the indoor climate of the school building. And the question I'm asking myself is, do we really know enough about what I would call an unexposed environmental bomb in Norwegian schools? Wouldn't there be a need for a separate, thorough national study on this problem? I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about it, because I see this as a problem that we to now have actually not taken really seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1823	We have a very recent report from Folkehelsa on the professional basis of indoor air quality standards. And I have no reason to say that we need some sort of update in terms of standards and guidelines and the professional basis for them. On the other hand, it is important that these standards are known to those who administer the legislation, be related to the Working Environment Act or to the Local Health Act and related regulations for environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. I expect that responsibility to be followed up by the municipalities. However, we have now had a review of how the municipalities follow up their responsibilities in relation to the indoor climate at the schools, and it will give us an opportunity to consider the questions that the representative Andersen now raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1833	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Ministry of the Environment practises the temporary stoppage of new purchasing centres and commercial areas in different hard-handed municipalities. How long does a Council of State, as a representative of the Left, want to act as a superintendent and practice detailed regulation towards each municipality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1842	The national provision on temporary cessation of establishment for major purchasing centres outside central parts of cities and agglomerations was established at kgl. Res. of 8 January 1999. This provision entered into force on 1 February 1999 and applies for up to five years. The aim of the shopping centre stop is to strengthen central parts of cities and agglomerations and to limit the strong urban sprawl and car-based transport development we have witnessed for many years. Trade in goods and other service functions should be localised to existing urban and urban centres, urban centres and other local centres, i.e. close to where people live, work and carry out daily tasks, and where conditions allow for walking, cycling and the use of collective means of transport. The establishment stop has been put in place pending the state being given the necessary level of planning to ensure better regional coordination of policies for the establishment and expansion of major purchasing centres. Once such plans have been drawn up and approved, the stoppage of establishment will be lifted. I would like to remind you that there was a majority in Stortinget that went in to apply the provisions of the Planning and Building Act to temporarily prohibit specific construction measures based on national interests, in this case purchasing centres. This provision implies a time-limited state governance of the municipalities where no regional plans exist for the location of purchasing centres. That is also the purpose of the stoppage of establishment. The main problem has been that municipalities individually have taken decisions on purchasing centre location that have had effects far beyond their own municipality, without the consequences being assessed in a regional context. The Ministry of the Environment consistently practises the national policy provision on the grounds of non-discrimination and respect for the planning now taking place in the counties for regional guidelines on the localisation of trade in goods. It would be unfortunate for these processes if the Department of En route would allow establishments which are contrary to the provision and which would require a more comprehensive regional assessment in the context of the state plan. Half of the counties are in progress with such sub-plans, and the remaining ones are expected to start up during the year. It is now up to local and regional planning authorities, industry and other interested parties to find good solutions for the localisation of trade in goods and other central functions within the framework of existing national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1857	I am disappointed with the answer, and I think there are probably more municipalities too. It is completely incomprehensible that the Council of State may have such a view of local development, which shall last for five years. When the Left Party still claims that it is the good friend of business, it is for the small traders. It is the general traders that make up the base pillar of the malls. In this context, regional and local development is hampered by the need to operate as an overall authority. Now there is not much autonomy for the municipalities to find in such an attitude as the Government and the Left Party choose to exercise. Regulated areas of activity are depleted, and often dreams of new homes intended for families with children, young people or the elderly are squandered in the context of stopped economic development. My question is: how many jobs, and the accompanying housing structure, will the Council of State be prevented from being set up before changing the anti-diversity policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1866	Let me first say that I disagree with what I saw as a very signified picture of the situation. I will also be allowed to stress that the number of cases that are decided locally and in which the central authorities intervene has fallen below this government. At the same time, business is also served by balanced development. We know not least that smaller companies and shops in the city centre have major problems with the uncontrolled establishment of large purchasing centres. What we've been saying about the temporary stoppage is that it lasts for up to five years, but at the moment you've managed to put in place a regional plan that also takes into account the potential of a whole region, not just in a single municipality, it will be possible to start building such a centre. I believe that what you do here does not prevent the creation of jobs, but rather ensures that you still have jobs and homes in the city centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1876	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘A hydrogeologist believes that environmental impacts can be significant if a civil airport is constructed in Rygge. Watershed, which is the source of drinking water for thousands of people in the Mosse region, can be contaminated by de-icing fluids because they need to sink into the ground and reduce water quality. Does the Council of State consider civil aviation on Rygge to be compatible with an acceptable water quality on the source of drinking water?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1885	In the context of the plans for future civil aviation at Rygge Main Aviation Station, Østfold County has launched an investigation programme to clarify the consequences. In the context of the investigation programme, the State pollution monitoring body has made proposals on the environmental aspects to be assessed. Among other things, the SFT has requested that an environmental risk assessment be carried out for water and soil as a result of the use of de-icing chemicals on aeroplanes and runways. Alternatively, SFT will have to request such an assessment to be carried out in the context of an aerodrome needing a new emission permit. The impact assessment currently carried out and the assessments of the emission request under the pollution law will answer the question posed by the representative Hedstrom. Last year the SFT received an application from Rygge Main Aviation Station for an emission permit for the use of a new de-icing agent on the runway. In addition, authorisation was requested to increase the total use of de-icing chemicals in order to take account of the assumed additional consumption of any civil air traffic at the aerodrome. The application lacked an assessment of the impact on the recipient of an increase in the use of chemicals. Therefore, the SFT cannot finalise the application until this information is available. However, I would like to stress that there must be a prerequisite for civil air traffic in Back that at the same time we are able to maintain an acceptable water quality in Lake Van.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1896	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I understand that it is difficult for her to give some more concrete and precise assessment before the actual investigations have been carried out. Nevertheless, this is a very important question. There's a huge attention around a possible civil establishment on Rygge, but there are special geological problems here. It's ants, and the same hydrogeologist who's been inside the picture here and made his assessments, did his doctoral thesis on the basis of what happened on the Gardermo. There were also certain conditions regarding de-icing fluids, etc., but we all know how it has gone. Therefore, it is also a matter of concern to be able to balance traffic with environmental considerations. I don't know if the council can say anything more, or if she will provide some supplementary information on a broad basis based on her knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1901	Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1904	Let me first say that I am very concerned about the same issue as the representative Hedstrom is in his question. I would also like to stress that the fact that access to safe knowledge is precisely the background to the studies that are currently being carried out, which will also be central to any renewal of the application for an emission permit, which will have to be made in the context of the transition to civil aviation. I am not well acquainted with the basic conditions and comparability between Gardermoen and Rygge, but I agree with the representative that the experience from Gardermoen underlines the importance of having great certainty about what could happen in situations of extreme weather conditions. Finally, let me stress that I believe that there must be a prerequisite for civil air traffic on Back that we can at the same time maintain an acceptable water quality in Lake Van.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1916	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘Today there is a major shortage of health professionals in many hospitals and in hospitals in the municipalities. At the same time, I record that the department is considering a ban on hiring health professionals. The ability to hire labour has effectively solved many difficult situations in most industries. This can also be done in the health care system, for example by taking ‘tops’ in the amount of work. A ban will continue to contribute to a difficult manning situation. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1925	As the representative of Solholm is aware, a new code of employment in December 1999 empowers the King to ‘forbid the rental of certain groups of workers or in certain areas where important social interests so require’. It was stressed at the Stortingen hearing that such a prohibition should only be granted when there are important societal considerations and that it should be granted for periods. No sector shall be permanently excluded. In my view, the concept of "important social considerations" must be interpreted in such a way as to allow the law to prohibit the taking-up of rentals where this may have an adverse effect on the labour market. I think, among other things: in a labour market where there is a significant shortage of labour, or where the willingness to pay is high so that renting can be wage- and cost-effective. These issues are now being considered by the Government in relation to the new provisions on labour renting. Once the Government has decided whether it considers it necessary to ban rentals for individual groups, for example: in the health sector, where appropriate, a proposal to that effect will be sent to the relevant organisations and institutions for consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1938	As usual, the Council of State is very elusive and vague when it comes to hiring out labour in the health and care sectors. The size of this task did not allow the Government to keep some workgroups outside. That is what it would initially like when we deal with the laws on the right to rent out and hire labour and private employment services. A prohibition, if any, would have to be in the condition that there is enough labour available, so that there was no disparate competition. But in this case, when it comes to the health sector, we lack health workers, we lack people to care for the sick and the old to get them better. And then I thought it was strange that the Council of State – I dare to make that claim – only to protect their own civil workers' group all the time talk about introducing such a requirement, but when you get specific questions, give away one. My question is: is the Council of State now willing to introduce exemptions from renting in the health sector, or is there still only vague wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1945	The reason why the answer is not direct yes or no is that the department, as I said in my post, has this under assessment now. There should be no need for the Government to take an assessment of the point of whether to establish regulations or not for any of these groups of workers after the decision to increase the number of employees. It is important to make the best possible arrangements for access to labour which can help solve the major tasks such as: the health service is required. And on the issue of access to rental, we also need to be sure that the different measures, including for example: access to rentals, which really means that the supply of labour is actually increasing. If not, you also have to take into account and look at the cost question associated with this. I can once again repeat that we have this under assessment now. It will not be long before a decision is taken, and it may come to a hearing, if that is the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1957	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘The Norwegian government mainly uses the Microsoft operating system Windows, a system that costs the state millions of dollars each year, and which is not particularly good. An operating system that many have considered better, and which is free, is called Linux. Several nations consider whether to continue to support the world's richest man by buying Microsoft products or switching to Linux. Will the Council of State initiate an investigation into switching to operating systems other than those provided by Microsoft?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1966	Microsoft has had a remarkable success with the Windows operating system for PCs. I don't want to decide which system is most suitable. But the large spread that Windows has got in the world scale, makes many people think it is a de facto standard in the market. Windows has therefore become a platform for products from the data industry in many countries. Many of these products are requested by establishments also in Norwegian administration. Following the current standardisation policy and the practice of public procurement legislation, individual activities decide for themselves which solutions they will acquire for their tasks after assessment of quality and price. Due to Microsoft’s market dominance, the US Department of Justice has carried out a review of the company’s practices based on US antitrust legislation. It is still uncertain what the outcome of this review will be. But the process has, among other things, contributed to increased awareness among businesses in a number of countries about their dependence on Microsoft products and opportunities for competitors, inter alia. based on the Linux platform. On this basis, Statskonsult has already started a project to assess the suitability of this type of software, including Linux, for the public sector. The project will assess, inter alia: the use, supply independence and economic impact of selecting this type of software. The report of the State Consultant is scheduled to be available in the fourth quarter of this year. The report will then be assessed by the Ministry with a view to making any recommendations concerning State activities in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1984	I thank the Council of State Davøy for the answer. It was a very positive answer, which goes into what is actually the most important thing, because this is basically about a struggle between democracy and diversity online and the monopoly – in this case by Microsoft. They also have a system that is very flexible, and it's also very expensive. That is why a number of European countries and also the United States are now assessing whether it is possible to use other operating systems as a buffer against Bill Gates" hegemony. The Danish Parliament, the French Parliament and also the European Commission are now assessing whether it is possible to access so-called open source software, i.e. operating systems available online, which do not have the same patenting protection as Microsoft’s systems. That means I'm very happy with the answer. I had hoped that it would have been possible to get such an investigation before the fourth quarter, but if that's the time that's needed, we'll just have to accept it. My final question is: will the Council also consider whether it would be appropriate to undertake an investigation into the education system, i.e. the school system, because we are going to invest large amounts of money in data in the coming years? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1993	Then we'll have to give the pulpit to the Davay State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e1996	It's actually that we have to spend some time on this investigation, and we probably have to move forward step by step to see if this is appropriate in the administration. It is also true that if you are going to switch to such a system, you cannot, if it does not work, send a complaint to someone. It is also dependent on having the skills to develop this system on your own if you want and need changes. When, for example: as regards state proceedings, we need to be sure that we get appropriate instruments. Within the Linux system, there are also not as large connecting software products as we want to need, as we do, for example. has within Microsoft today. But all of this will be evaluated. When it comes to the last question, I take it back to the department. I can't really answer confirm whether it's relevant to include it in this context, but I'm taking the question back to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2007	I have the following questions for the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘From New Year onwards, a regulation has been issued requiring enterprises to report prices per year. the unit of measurement of the sales goods. Shops in the Mosse region have not followed up the legislation on unit pricing, which is designed to make it easier for consumers to compare product prices. This inhibits the competition between shops. What will the Council of State do to ensure compliance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2016	The case referred to by the representative relates to the rules of the Competition Authority Regulation of 6 December 1999 on price information for goods. It implements Directive No 1/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council. EC 98/6 on consumer protection in relation to consumer price information incorporated into the EEA Agreement by decision of the EEA Committee. Article 11 of the Directive requires Member States to bring into force the necessary provisions by 18 March 2000. The Norwegian regulation entered into force on 1 January of this year and requires goods to be marked with a unit price in addition to the sale price. It will help to make it easier to compare prices of different products, irrespective of the size of the package. Enforcement of the regulation has been added to the Competition Authority. At this stage, supervision has focused on extensive information activities. A number of meetings have been held with the large food chains and other trade organisations and the supervisory authorities give talks as requested and needed. An information sheet for distribution has been developed and detailed information on the new regulation, its scope and practical importance, including questions and answers to relevant issues, is available on the Internet. However, following a phase of information as the main instrument, competition surveillance will carry out the first checks during the first six months in order to monitor compliance with the regulation in practice. In addition to the harvest, controls will be intensified to ensure compliance with the rules by operators. Based on the dialogue with relevant organisations and business, I have the impression that any lack of follow-up two months after the regulation came into force is not due to a lack of willingness to comply with the legislation. The commercial industry, like consumers, appears to see the benefits of good and correct pricing and is adapting to the new rules. However, operators must make some technical and practical adjustments in order to comply with the requirements of the regulation, and this takes some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2031	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and do not have any follow-up questions at all, but will make a brief comment. It is quite clear that all businesses, including some large businesses with significant resources, will not be able to reach the intent set out in the regulation of 18 March. But I made it clear that the authorities are concerned about this. And why I might be particularly concerned about this as an Eastfold representative is the huge commercial leakage to Sweden. We have to get a competitive pressure at all stages of the value chain, including at the stores, so that customers can compare prices. Those who are price conscious want to trade where it's cheapest. This will be one term in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2041	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘Following the lookout in Nordlys on 9 February 2000, the Minister for Fisheries plans to locate the new Secretariat for the Valuation of Fisheries of Oslo. Does the Government consider this to be in line with the Government’s objective of relocating state functions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2050	Norway is now one of the world’s largest fish exporters, with a total export value of Norwegian seafood in 1999 of DKK 30 billion. More than one third of this comes from farmed salmon, and the proportion is increasing. Several professional environments have recently found that the main potential for increased value creation in Norway in the decades to come lies in fisheries and aquaculture/sea grazing and in the exploitation of marine resources in a broad sense. A number of scenarios are outlined, and the conclusion that can be drawn is that the value creation potential in the marine sector is significant. However, we face demanding work in a number of fields to realise this potential. In particular, this recognition must be established in all the departments concerned, so that the overall framework and the instrument move in the same direction and provide a basis for a competitive business. Increased R & D investment is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition to trigger the value creation potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industry. Important issues such as the organisation of legislation, market access, access to land, organisation and evaluation of the instrument are also very important in order to ensure the necessary foundations for further development and growth for the industry. In this context, it is important that the Ministry of Fisheries in its organisation has a sufficient focus on the marine value creation potential. I have therefore chosen to redeploy resources in the department and thus establish a separate unit consisting of two-three key persons in the department. The aim is to coordinate the daily work of the departments in this field. The Secretariat will be an important tool in the ministry's efforts to develop a comprehensive policy, and I would like to stress that the main reason for establishing this Secretariat is to strengthen the department's competence and capacity for long-term work. I am of the opinion that this overall perspective is well taken care of with the proposed organization of the secretariat, compared to the other ongoing work in the department. In order to succeed, significant involvement of all relevant actors in industry, research and different management bodies is assumed. As the newspaper Nordlys pointed out, there is a well-established and competent research environment in the marine sector in Tromsø. There is a broad consensus on this. It is therefore important that this environment, such as other important R & D environments around Norway, become a constructive contributor to the work of increasing value creation to be carried out in the Ministry of Fisheries. I would like to stress that the government's policy is to use the whole country, and especially Coast Norway will be at the heart of the future. I see no contradiction between this policy and the desire to target and upgrade the Ministry of Fisheries' own efforts to realise the value creation potential in the marine sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2069	I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I interpret very positively. I agree that there is a need for a comprehensive policy to trigger the great potential of marine resources. And we have just dealt with a research report that, among other things, reports a strong increase in marine research. I also agree with the Council of State when he says that, for example. there is a need to assess the instrument. When I raised the question in the questionnaire, there was a background in a press release that launched a completely new and own secretariat, such as, among other things. would carry out investigation work. If this is just about reorganizing work in the ministry, yes, if he has chosen to hire a two-three people, then the council would have to do so, but if it had been about building up new environments of competence and administrative bodies, I would expect the council to agree that they can and should be located outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2076	I think we agree very much – fortunately. For here it is a matter of developing a new and great industry together and, not least, of using competences around the country. The misunderstanding that was, of course, came from the fact that Nordlys did not investigate the matter well enough, or did not want to investigate the matter well enough. Now, hopefully we've put that thing in place. Here I redispatch resources within the department to do a better job in the department, and of course that job has to be done in Oslo. But in the end, I would say that I fully agree that if it had been a big, new secretariat and new administrative body, the government would consider deployment somewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2084	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘In Rogaland County, shellfish production is now heavily invested. The inspection shall be carried out by the Veterinary College in Oslo. The lack of control bodies in the district leads to waiting times and subsequent production problems. Will the Council of State work to make it possible to carry out effective control of production by means of a control facility available within Rogaland County, as well as to increase research efforts to find a reliable chemical test that could render current animal testing superfluous?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2093	The only approved method for testing shellfish marine algal poisons is in the use of laboratory animals — the so-called mouse test. Such surveys are currently carried out at the Norwegian veterinary high school. In order to increase the capacity of such tests, money is allowed to establish a decommissioning offer for museum testing. This will be located in Trøndelag and will be available within a few months. The capacity for mouse tests shall then be sufficient to meet the needs of the shellfish industry throughout the country. It would not be appropriate to establish similar offers for museum testing elsewhere in Norway. For ethical reasons, we want to minimise the number of mouse tests and switch to chemical methods of analysis. The aim is to carry out most of the oxygen control using chemical testing methods. The new offer of mouse testing — localised to Tree layers — will therefore be discontinued when the need for mouse tests is gradually reduced as chemical analytical methods are taken over. In the future, mouse tests shall only be included as a security check on the chemical methods for, inter alia. to prevent one from ignoring any new algae toxins. The methods of chemical analysis that are under development show good consistency with the so-called mouse test. The methods are operational at the Norwegian veterinary high school today, but some development and adaptation of the methods will still be necessary before they can be used by official or commercial laboratories in the shellfish community. Rapid tests, which growers themselves can use in their plant, are also under development. These are not yet commercially available, but are expected to be a useful tool for shellfish farmers, and will also contribute to a reduction in the number of mouse tests. The Norwegian marine algal poison research environment in shellfish participates in EU expert committees and is working to get the EU to approve the use of chemical methods of analysis for control of shellfish. In order to strengthen the Norwegian research environment and develop the chemical methods of analysis, increased appropriations will be allocated to the research environment of Norway’s veterinary college for marine algal poisons. The Government will return to it, if necessary, in the context of the revised budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2110	For shellfish producers, the time gone by carrying out the check is a significant practical problem, because the goods cannot be exported until the check has been carried out. I am not so sure that it solves the problem for shellfish cultivators in Rogaland that you can now do a test in Trøndelag instead of Oslo. It is not given that it will go faster. I had therefore hoped that the Council of State would be willing to do a greater degree of decentralization. For example, there is a veterinary station on Højland in Sandnes, where it could be possible to carry out some tests using mice. On the other hand, what I am more satisfied with in the Council's response is that research is now being strongly invested in providing chemical tests. It is important not only for ethical reasons, but also because it leads to significant efficiency, and then I am satisfied that this work is taken seriously. If we can solve these problems, we would be able to create a significant new growth industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2117	As I said, it is a transitional arrangement to establish a new environment in Trøndelag, pending the establishment of chemical testing methods. I'm glad that we can agree that the most important thing in the future is that we are able to develop new methods that are also sensible for ethical reasons, so that we do not use live animals in such testing. I think that the shellfish industry will have a great potential if we manage to reduce the time period, as mentioned here, in relation to the markets. The time period for testing is important for entering the markets in a timely manner. In any case, I believe that the representative Simonsen and the Minister for Fisheries are largely in agreement with the work that is now being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2122	The President sees it as safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2128	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘For a long time there has been a conflict between the large autoline boats and the coastal fleet fishing within the baseline and inside the fjords. The large seagoing autoline vessels have displaced the sarcfleet in their own core area. An autoliner sets and draws the same amount of use in 24 hours that many jacks spend one year on. It is obvious that this has led to serious conflicts that have lasted for several years. What does the Council of State intend to do to solve the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2137	Fisheries authorities have been following the conflict between the autoline fleet and the coastal fleet for many years. For the longest time, the authorities have awaited the results of voluntary schemes initiated by agreements within the Norwegian Fisheries Team, including: it is recommended to autoline vessels to take account of the needs of the smaller coastal vessels for their area and stable operating base in their neighbourhoods. As it turned out that the recommendation agreement was not sufficient to resolve the conflict, the Ministry of Fisheries found it necessary to amend the legislation. In June 1999 a temporary regulation was adopted, on the limited basis available to the Ministry today, prohibiting autoline vessels over 28 m from fishing within a limit of four to six nautical miles from the baseline in West Finland. In autumn 1999, the Ministry of Fisheries appointed a working group composed of members of the Norwegian Fisheries Team, the Norwegian Coastal Fisheries Team, the Institute of Marine Research, Fisheries Research, the Coast Guard Inspectorate, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Ministry of Fisheries. The task of the working group was to assess where a permanent maritime boundary along the coast of seagoing vessels fishing with fixed gears should go and the vessel sizes to which it should apply. The mission was to focus on the sustainable exploitation of local and stationary coastal bottom fishing laws, not least on the smaller coastal vessels and on coastal communities. In January of this year, the working group presented its position. The suspension concludes that fishing within a limit drawn along the whole coast four nautical miles from the baseline shall be prohibited for autoline vessels above 21,35 m. This limit shall apply throughout the year, with the exception of two areas outside Finnmark and Troms and one area outside the Nordic region where, for a period of the year, the limit is drawn to 10 nautical miles from the baseline. The suspension has been sent to the hearing by 25 April of this year. I consider the proposals in the vote to be a good basis for border crossing, and I intend to lay down a regulation on a country-wide border crossing as soon as possible. Since there is a need for a clearer basis in the Seawater Fishing Act for such a borderline as is proposed in the suspension, the Ministry has already prepared a draft resolution on the amendment of the law. The proposal proposes a new provision of the law to authorise the introduction of territorial restrictions for fishing with larger vessels using gear other than trawls. The draft has been out for consultation in industry and in the relevant departments. I intend to make a proposal on the amendment of the law to the Storting within a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2150	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was so clarifying and positive. This conflict has developed over a long time. When you're as old as I am, you've been allowed to live with accusations that northerners were unable to get out of the sea. They had to be in trouble to fish along the coast. When you find out that the same exponents of this expression come into the North's herring fox and fish the fish that the North would have, it's going to be wrong, and then people, to put it mildly, become very irritated. It is high time that this problem was solved. It is a regrettable fact, unfortunately, that there are a few skippers who have been able to provoke this change in law, which is now likely to apply to all seagoing vessels, including those fishing with nets, which have never been a problem for local fishermen. But it's often like when some people can't act like people, it's going to be wrong for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2157	The President has some doubts about all the expressions used by the representative Bastesen were particularly parliamentary, but the President also appreciated the juicy dialect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2160	When do I and Steinar Bastesen not live so far apart, but I'll try to avoid that kind of concept. However, I know his pictorial language and I think it is good that we can use it here. What is important in this case is that this demarcation is now being implemented. It was the first thing I took care of after I became the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2170	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘When Stortinget repealed the law on guidance services in the fishing industry, it was provided that the provision of services for the industry, local and regional, was not to be reduced. State Consultant has now submitted a report proposing the closure of a number of local offices in the Directorate of Fisheries. A full review of the External Ethics Department is also proposed in Bergen. Will the Council of State follow the recommendations of the State Consultant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2179	The process of reviewing the Directorate-General for Fisheries' external offices took place for several years and was dealt with several times by the Stortinget. New organisational model with nine regional offices in a common external establishment and repeal of the law on guidance services were adopted by the Stortinget on 19 February 1998. Following the decision of the Storting, the reorganisation in the Fisheries Directorate started with the organisation of a new department, the Quality, Control and Regional Management Department. It was then implemented at regional level and is now working to establish a final structure and localisation. In the Stortinget documents, the department clarified, among other things: the local staff resources of the external fisheries management shall not be impaired as a result of the new model. Attention shall be paid to the local maintenance of the service provision and to the continuation of an external fishing network which is service oriented towards the industry. The above and the Stortning assumptions are always taken into account in the work. Fisheries and aquaculture, communications and technology, as well as external framework conditions, etc. have, however, undergone major changes in the period following the establishment of the office structure of the guidance and control services. An example of this is, for example: the commitment to veterinary border controls in the case of deliveries from third countries. These conditions may indicate that the future need for skills, professional standards and local offices may be different from before. The Fisheries Director considered it appropriate for the local office structure to be assessed by an independent body in some places. In September 1999, an agreement was reached between the Directorate of Fisheries and Statskonsult that the latter should carry out an assessment of the geographical location, the division and organisation of local offices in relation to the tasks involved, the possibilities for flexible use of personnel and the overall interaction, etc. in the region. State Consultant was specifically asked to look at the regions Nordland and More and Romesdal. During the performance of the mission, the State Consultant has been in contact with the directors and staff of the Directorate and the EEAS, the trust-elected, the County Fisheries Team, the Breeder Team, the SND and the Nordland County Municipality. State Consultant submitted its report to the Director of Fisheries in February of this year. It is now out of consultation in the Directorate-General for Fisheries with a deadline for its opinion on 17 March. The Fisheries Director will then prepare his recommendation to the Ministry. Since the Statskonsult's report has been prepared on behalf of the Director of Fisheries and will be dealt with by him, I do not find it appropriate to comment on or decide on the report before the Director of Fisheries's recommendation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2198	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not an answer to my question. When Statskonsult has presented a report that concludes with the closure of a number of local offices and the full review of the main administration in Bergen, it testifies that the Statskonsult proposes a huge reduction in the administration. The Minister for Fisheries' own statements that the Ministry of Fisheries is going to be the largest department in Norway are very poor. Then I have to repeat my question: will he follow the Statskonsult's report, which concludes with closure and a smaller department than his own, which is to make the ministry the most possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2205	I would like to stress once again that when a matter is at the hearing, and when we wait for a position from a departmental office, I would like to await that setting before a concrete answer is given. But I can express a principleal view of the matter, which is independent of the judgements in Northern and More and Rome's valleys, among others. has now been completed. It goes without saying that if we are to make good the growth of the fishing industry that Bastesen also underlines, we cannot make a reduction in the control unit, a reduction in the advisory system. It is at the bottom of my work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2215	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The paper on archives, libraries and museums informs us that the fishing industry is one of the few industries that do not have a State responsibility museum. When will there be an initiative to create a State-owned fisheries museum?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2224	The Storting message about archives, libraries and museums, which is produced by the Ministry of Culture, does not benefit the museum of state responsibility, nor does there currently exist a museum with such a label. It is true, however, that coastal culture and fishing industries are not as well documented in the form of museum activities as is the case with inland culture and agriculture. In retrospect, it seems strange to me in a country where the long coastline with its population and a lack of business is such an important hallmark. In recent decades, however, many good museums have been built with coastal culture, fisheries and maritime transport as a central documentation area. The government has called for an extensive strengthening of the state's efforts in the museum area, while at the same time providing for an organisational clean-up in the highly fragmentary institutional structure that characterises the Norwegian museum landscape. The message shows that in this context, it would be natural to give more institutions with a professional focus in the field of coastal culture, fisheries and maritime transport. As Minister of Fisheries, I want the Ministry of Fisheries to be more involved in the cultural heritage on the coast and in documentation of fishing industry and shipping. However, I would like to stress that it is the Ministry of Culture and Norwegian Museum Development that must be responsible for the professional evaluations when it comes to which museum and institutions it is to be invested. The message also shows that one here will see closer to national coordination, so that one can obtain a functional and professional division of work between consolidated regional museum units. The message states that the Ministry of Culture will continue its work on regional consolidation and national coordination in the area of coastal culture, fisheries and maritime transport, and that this will have a particularly high priority in following up the message. As Minister of Fisheries, I am very pleased with the special priority given to the fisheries sector to which the Government is committed. It is now up to the Stortinget to confirm the strong state investment in the museum sector in general, and museum activities for the fisheries sector in particular, as the Government has suggested here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2237	I thank the Council of State for the positive answer. The Council of State noted that the study of the State Liability Museum is not available in St.meld. No 22nd@item: No well, but it is equally valid – or to use the words of the Council of State: ‘national coordination within the museum area coastal culture, fisheries and maritime transport’. This work will now be given a high priority, as the Council of State said. And that's joyous. The condition is, of course, that the Storting joins the message at this point. On such a background, can the Council state what time horizon will be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2246	I don't think the concept practice is the most important thing. I think we agree that there should be national coordination, and that one should have some museum to preserve this important cultural heritage, and work on it. We're lucky to have developed some of those museums along the coast in the last few years that are good, that are good, that are capable, that can do such a job. I am very happy that this matter is taken up in the Questionnaire. This is an important matter, and I want the Ministry of Fisheries to focus more on this area in the future as well. But I would like to stress that here we need professional advice from the Ministry of Culture and Norwegian Museum Development on what kind of museum we're going to bet on. I hope that the Storting will be in favour of the Government's proposal, and that we may thus have the opportunity to get ahead of it. It's hard for me to put the time work into practice, but at least I want a lot of focus on this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2253	That being the case, it is no. 1 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-01.ana.ud2380e2262	There is no record available.
