ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e42	The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Kurt-Arne Langeland, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the delegation of power to the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, signed by the chairperson of the delegation, Mr Blankenburg, on leave on 24 and 25 May to attend the meeting of the EEA Parliamentary Committee in Oslo of the representatives of Carl I. Hagen, Morten Lund, Siri Frost Sterri and Haakon Blankenborg of the representative of Mr Ingvald Godal on leave on 25 and 26 May to attend a Wilton Park conference in Stockholm On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Uppland County: Kjell Ivar Fossnes.For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet.For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen.For South Trondelag County: Tove Kari Viken and Michael Momyr.3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e102	The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e105	I will be allowed to make suggestions to change the principles of registration of the municipality of residence for students, so that students are given freedom of choice between the municipality of residence and the municipality of study.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e110	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15.00 until the current map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President’s proposal – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e126	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e137	The new information society gives us exciting perspectives on value creation, industrial development and empowerment for the entire Norwegian community. As politicians, it is our responsibility to make sure that we maintain some overall policy objectives and steer towards those objectives in a changeable and complex reality. The centre party is committed to ICT as a means of maintaining and improving the welfare society for all, irrespective of residence address or social affiliation. ICT shall contribute to ensuring high-quality education, increased democracy and effective communication between the population and public and secure value creation throughout the country. Task No 1 to ensure the participation of all the country's citizens in the ICT society is that the necessary infrastructure is in place. The development of broadband networks throughout Norway is a fundamental prerequisite for ICT policy and for the realisation of digital all-man rights. There were therefore disappointing signals from the State Council of Knudsen during the IT statement. In her statement at the NHO Conference on 27 April this year, she points out that the Government will follow a competition line, a demand line, and not a State investment line in physical infrastructure. I quote: ‘The physical infrastructure should be developed and established by commercial operators in competition with each other. It ensures low prices and modern infrastructure. The State should therefore refrain from such tasks.» It has become difficult to understand what the Workers' Party really means. On 6 March, just before the central government had to go, the leader of the Workers' Party, Torbjørn Jagland, said: ‘We have long been a driver for the development of a so-called broadband network — a high-speed data transmission network — across the country. And we've thought that it doesn't last to leave this to the private players in the market – it has to be government governance to." So it was said on March 6th, and it's like I should have said it myself. We are in the process of establishing an A and B teams, a distinction between cities and districts in terms of infrastructure for ICT-based business. Both mail, telephone, radio and television were made available in due time through public investment in infrastructure. There is no reason for any other assessment of the high-speed network. It is also important to ensure that price differences do not arise between different parts of the country. Today, there are very large differences in the price of leased broadband lines. The company Digidoc in Inner Namdal found that it would cost about NOK 300000 more this year to rent a 4 MB line to Røirvik than to Oslo. Here the Government needs to insert measures quickly. Norway must aim to be a world leader in the use of new technologies. Governments spent a lot of time referring to eEurope in their presentation. Although the EU objective of linking all schools to the Internet by 2002 is affordable – I also recall the desire of the Centre Party to link all primary schools in Norway to broadband networks by the end of 2001 – eEurope is extremely little concrete in terms of instruments, not least in terms of infrastructure. The EU, with the exception of Nordic members, is far behind the US and Norway in broadband. In fact, the EU is lag behind in broadband policy. I would therefore recommend Knudsen to engage more in how Norway will achieve the digital rights of all people than to stick Norwegian targets against the EU. It's not necessarily the most offensive thing. The centre party welcomes the signals on the deliberate use of ICT to renew the public sector. The potential for better service and information for citizens, efficient use of resources, healthcare, etc. is large, and ‘daily management’ is a ‘win-win concept’ both for the public and for the users. But the Council of State does not at all problem the fact that much of the public service is under municipal control. There is still enormous variation between municipalities in the extent to which they benefit from ICT. This is also about economics. What will the Council of State do to stimulate municipalities to such an increase in investment? The existing Høkom scheme, which is intended to stimulate the demand for services by municipalities, has proved unsatisfactory. Firstly, the scheme cannot be used for infrastructure; secondly, lack of advice for municipalities is an obstacle that must be provided before the municipalities are able to stimulate their own demand. The Labour Party Government is now proposing a broadband policy on market premises that will increase centralisation and greater differences between people. It does not hold the central party when Knudsen signals that the Workers' Party will follow market developments closely. The central government has already carried out the necessary investigation. The report ‘Broadbands for the whole country – proposals for national bets’ was submitted before Easter. The central government ordered this report last autumn, and it is now important that the workers' party government quickly submit a bid for broadband policy to follow up this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e170	It was as expected that a representative from the Central Party, now the committee leader, Morten Lund, would address the issue of expanding the telecommunications network. Norway has for a long time had the best telecommunications network in the world, but that we may be somewhat behind us is suggested in broadband. Personally, we believe in the Progress Party that it should be the market that governs this and that public incentives should help to make it attractive. I would like to remind the representative Lund of what has happened with regard to the energy grid, etc. We cannot extend this to the «extremely naked island». There'll be an impossibility, it'll be equal to lifting gravity in Norway. But the fact that we have to go far in order to be competitive is important. I'm going to ask the representative Lund about another thing, which he said little about in his post. These are the framework conditions. We know that the big ones in Norway are now moving out because of the taxes on wealth, and that it is completely different in Norway from the countries we compare with. It is also the option tax model that has been chosen in our country to date. We have no higher corporate tax than the average in Europe, but precisely these two elements stand out and are very negative for the new economy. What does the Centre Party intend to contribute here to make it attractive to establish Norwegian and international companies in this area and make Norway more competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e179	It is not surprising that the Progress Party has a different view of public infrastructure and the need to help the market in this area. The centre party is not satisfied that we should have an infrastructure that is good – we want us to be in the front line in this area. That's what we've done in a number of other areas as well. The representative Hedstrøm speaks of us trying to ‘repeal gravity’ if we are to bring infrastructure out to the ‘extremely naked island’, as he says. But that's what we've done in all of the areas that we've built up in the past – in terms of mail, in terms of telecommunications, in terms of roads, in terms of electricity. It's not long since the Storting confirmed that where there are people living, there should be electricity. I think it's just as obvious that there should also be access to ICT services where there are people living. When we've done what we've done before in terms of infrastructure, why on earth shouldn't we do it now? When the Committee visited Ireland, the message from the Irish authorities was that the market is not alone in controlling this. Ireland had purchased infrastructure for broadband capacity, all of it, to distribute it to companies with demands for what to do. And Ireland is considered to be a leading country in the field of industrial development and everything related to ICT. I think it was instructive. The centre party wants to improve the option arrangements for the companies that are entrepreneurs, who are growing up and who really need the improvement and the scheme, because they cannot afford to secure the best labour force by paying high wages. There we want to make great improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e190	The center party never denies itself. So now the Center Party had the opportunity to do something about the broadband network when they were in government, but what happened? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. Now, all of a sudden, the Center Party is so eager to demand that the Workers' Party and the Government come to the Stortinget. Of course, it is absolutely necessary to do something about the broadband situation so that businesses can exist around our vast country, but it is actually a little too tempting to ask what the Senterpartie itself has done to remedy the situation of District Norway in terms of the broadband network. They had the option, but now the Workers' Party has to sort it out again. Also in this case. There are more than one member of the Labour Party who has reason to rejoice over the change of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e197	I'm glad to have the opportunity to say it again. What we're doing now is defending what was the Workers' Party's vision as late as March 6. Then said the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland – and I expect it to be the Labour Party's view: the market is not doing this alone, we have to make sure that the state is on the investment side, and we want broadband connections to be available throughout the country. The central government was in no way passive, and what we are now saying is a continuation of what that government said. What has happened is that the Workers' Party is changing. The term digital universal right has been introduced into the common people's speech since the president of the Centre Party began to use the term. The government has investigated what is going to happen in this area. The previous government put a great deal of pressure on market players to increase investment, and investments increased very much during that government. And I'm assuming it's going to continue. This is not the case in Norway alone. If we do not succeed in continuing the efforts that have been made, we will soon be overrun by many other countries. For the whole of Europe, the whole world, is committed to exploiting the opportunities we have. I hope the Workers' Party's new signals do not lead to large parts of Norway not participating in this, among others. those parts of Norway which may have special assumptions and which have special needs for this initiative. And the special assumptions are, among other things, that new enterprises can generate stable labour at a lower price and are really concerned with developing new things at their place of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e208	I'm worried if the Council of State were to find out about listening to and taking to heart some of the central party's principal speakers are expressing themselves here in the Chamber. Then you really are involved in developing an A and a B team in the ICT industry and in IT Norway. I think we're already getting an A and a B team. How can it be that the Central Party is doing everything it can to prevent the companies that are ready with billions in hand and want to go out and develop broadband networks in Norway? I have not seen that the Centre Party in other areas where communication and transport have been involved has been able to give priority to a single ear, rather on the contrary. In the transport sector, it has been cut down and cut down precisely in the areas of the country where today it is becoming a spokesperson for investment and development. If you want to do what the Center Party here adds up to, you're going to do a clean B-layer thinking. For we must then wait for state capital and government governance, we must prevent competition. And we have enough examples in the telecommunications sector that prove that this increases speed and reduces price. I assume that the Council of State does what she has said in her statement, and ensures that the State in its policy and work and in its role prioritises the areas of the country that are not commercially interesting, and that she intervenes and does the necessary work in those areas of the country where the commercial job is not otherwise capable of developing such a network.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e219	It is, in my opinion, gross when the Right Party accuses the Centre of being the party that wants to bet at least on the movement of different measures on the outskirts. It is a good idea to create a long list of proposals from the Right and suggestions from the Center Party and compare them, but I don't think that's any reason. People know exactly what it's about. Right wants to bet on the tribal roads where the Center Party wants to bet on county roads and highways. That's one of the pictures. So the representative Kristiansen warns the Council of State not to listen to what the Center Party says. The centre party says what the Workers' Party said as late as March 6. The centre party says what is Ireland’s strategy for broadband betting. In Ireland, they gain control of the lines of communication in order to redistribute them and sell them to commercial companies, but with the possibility of making demands on where to invest. And Ireland is one of the largest software exporters in the world. It was to make sure they had the opportunity to continue taking that grip and making the big investment that they were sure was going to be profitable for Ireland as a society, because in this area they would be in close proximity. We've looked at what happens to investments if the market decides. This has happened with regard to state investment in road and other areas. We don't want it to be like that in this area. The actors themselves have said that if they are to determine only what is profitable for them, there will be too little investment in the outermost regions of Norway. It could be a large part of Norway. We don't know how large that part will be. The center party doesn't think we should take the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e231	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e234	It is not possible in a brief statement to comment on more than a few essential points from the presentation by the Council of State. The government’s nine IT policy points provide a good overview and points to important challenges in the field of IT policy in Norway in the coming years. Ensuring broadband access across the country is a major task and crucial if information and communication technologies are to be a good thing for everyone. It is therefore right for the Government to adopt State measures, as the statement warns, if it should be demonstrated that market players are only developing in key areas. This is to the extent the same strategy that Ireland has chosen. In Ireland, too, the goal is to reach all parts of the country, or, as they themselves say, every single green spot of the island, and they believe that the players in the market, after the state has sold out, will be able to do so without any State intervention. So the central party representative Morten Lund's interpretation of the minister's statement is wrong. It states that measures to ensure broadband for all may be relevant. It is difficult to see that the public sector can be simplified and streamlined without extensive use of information and communication technologies. It is therefore right for the Council of State to focus on the need for public bodies to be at the forefront and not brake blocks in the use of information and communication technologies. However, there are indications that the public sector is currently lagging behind in exploiting the new technology. There is not necessarily a shortage of machinery and equipment; it is also possible to make use of the opportunities it lacks. If broadband access is to be the option for many applicants for efficiency and growth, broadband has to meet three requirements: sufficient capacity, high stability and a reasonable and roughly equal price must be provided. The government must follow closely so that these three requirements are met. Otherwise, what is initially a good thing can be a disadvantage both for the public sector and for enterprises outside the main centres of Norway. Should it also prove necessary for the State to take measures to cover the country as a whole, it is essential that this is done quickly. Established enterprises in the districts can have considerable competitive disadvantages by not having access to broadband at about the same time and at a reasonable price, as other firms will receive. In the worst case, there may be competition due to a lack of infrastructure on the technology side. Strongly growing online commerce, both with products that are supplied in retrospect and with knowledge that can take place on its own and on its own on the Internet, also depends on good access in the electronic network. As a point 1 of the statement, the government has an information society for everyone. This is a bold goal, and it is vital that it is achieved. If this is taken seriously by all actors, it can bring us great and new progress. Consider the potential for new opportunities for people with disabilities through a reasonable use of information and communication technologies. This applies whether the reduction is congenital, has been delayed after an injury or an accident or is a natural part of the ageing process. The point is to create universal solutions that everyone can use, not first to create solutions that satisfy the health of the function, and then to create special solutions that are gradually adapted to different groups of people with disabilities. This applies to IT equipment itself, but also to equipment that has new technological solutions as part of its function. Making universal solutions in the first place will in the long term also result in financial savings. Only a small example from another sector of what universal solutions can lead to. In Lillehammer they have invested in low-floor buses for transportation in the city. This greatly facilitates access and disembarkation. Passenger numbers increased by 30 pst. after such buses were put into service. So Lillehammer put on a universal solution that didn't need different devices to get people on the bus, and thus gave new groups the opportunity to use collective transport. Research also shows that people with disabilities get a better quality of life if they have a daily job to do than if they are unemployed. The new technology will give us more jobs. Many of these may be filled by people with disabilities, whether they are inhibited by movement, vision, hearing or anything that has prevented entry into the labour market. Now is the time to use IT consciously to also create a greater equivalency in working life and thus in society for these people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e255	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e258	In the presentation, the State Council presented the Labour Party's future IT policy. It was an interesting account that contained a lot of exciting news, among other things. in the direction of the market and industry. Among other things, it was said: ‘We must therefore build on the will and ability of business to self-regulate and not create too many bottlenecks in the development of the new economy.’ It was also said that welfare policy and industrial policy are closely linked. Several examples can be found in the report. These are new notes from the Workers' Party, and I ask: What concrete results can be expected from the Workers' Party as a result of these fundamental political changes in course of action? Or is it just talking about beautiful words? The revised national budget may indicate that the latter is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e268	This reply was as much addressed to the State Council statement as to my post. But the Workers' Party has realized that the new technology gives us new opportunities, and then we act. I am myself employed in a computer company for the day, and I know what possibilities exist. We know that this is completely demarcating. We can't regulate all parts of that business. It's going to be a completely impossible problem. But we see the opportunities that this will provide in the future, both for the public sector and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e275	In the past, this kind of presentation that we are debating today has been made by the Minister of Education. It has been according to the wishes of the former governments. Now you have chosen to add this to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Then it is obvious that the weakness of both the presentation and the debate that has so far been here, that it is very focused on the narrow sections of the information society and not on what is perhaps the Bigholding's most important role in such a debate, namely to facilitate our education system's ability to take the new world inward. It is therefore interesting that the representative of the Workers' Party does not affect training in a single word. So if you really want to create a digital society for everyone, the possibility of education and the possibility that educational institutions are at the same level as the technology that's around them, is one of the most important things. Let me therefore be very specific on the question to the representative of the Workers' Party. This is where we discuss broadband networks. Broadband networks are good and good, and broadband networks are required. I don't think there can be any doubt that it is not possible commercially to add broadband networks to all parts of Norway. If we want to, it is a political task that politicians obviously have to go in and co-finance. At the same time, it's no use for broadband networks if you don't have machines, if you don't have software, and if you don't have teachers who are able to exploit it, now that all the schools that it says are connected to the broadband network. What measures do you want to take to make it possible to offset the enormous differences in Norwegian primary schools, related to software, related to hardware and machines? All the studies carried out show that there is a huge difference both within the municipality and between municipalities. This is a political task. The second statement on education relates to the following: Educational institutions are now to be redispatched, more flexible in higher education places, in order to facilitate this type of new place of study. Does the Workers' Party really mean that? Does the Workers' Party really believe that it is the educational institution itself that is going to redispatch study places and that there should be no overall government plan for how to facilitate them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e284	First, a little comment on that with the Internet to all parts of Norway. I think we politicians should be careful to say that it's an impossibility, as Djupedal now said. We don't know what it is that could be the final technological solutions. Perhaps in a few years' time you can sit with the TV screen and your cell phone in front of you, and then you have full access all over Norway. So we don't know what the final technology is. And it's going incredibly fast. As far as education is concerned, I agree with the representative of Djupedal that it is incredibly important that we have an education in ICT. It's happening today. It's not like it's not happening. Enterprises with ICT as the main tool have their own education over a low shoe, and it is also education related to the secondary school. So a large part of the education is already going on today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e291	It's true that you don't know what the technology of the future will bring, and all that we now have around us of ICT, none of us knew about just a few years ago. That means that a one-sided bet on broadband networks is not necessarily right in all parts of the country, and especially where there are little people living and the distances are long. It is possible to imagine that signals are gradually transmitted through the air, which will be more able to facilitate ICT. Therefore, it is surprising to see that the Council’s presentation contains a long harange of broadband networks and not alternative technologies. I also think it's right to say that if the Storting actually wants everyone to have the opportunity, that means that of course you have to think about more technologies, but also that the state should play an active role in it, and not as this statement says, that here it's business alone that is to sort out. But then to what was my important question. The data industry itself says that they lack 12,500 places of study each year. 50,000 places of study will be needed over a few years to meet the needs of business — and it is only business needs and not the need we have in the public sector for a large-scale investment in information technology. That's why the weakness of the statement becomes so obvious. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade shall have a statement of such an important field as is deeply concerned with education, which is profoundly concerned with the possibility of everyone — and the primary school is not mentioned at all in the statement. Neither in the representative's reply is the primary school mentioned in a single word. That means that the class distinctions we already have in primary school would be reinforced if we didn't actually make plans and goals on how Kommune-Norge is going to be able to meet this wonderful new world. All of us who have kids in primary school know very well what this is like. You have a couple of machines in the library that are up and running. A lot of the other equipment is old. So the pairs of machines in the library cannot meet the need for an entire school. In some municipalities, much more offensive efforts have been made, and there is a better deal. But the differences are enormous. If this tool is so infinitely important, do you have no ambitions for it? Will the differences continue to evolve?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e300	I can't leave broadband properly yet, because I'm not sure if Djupedal and I fully agree on what broadband is. A broadband isn't going to have to be physical wires that go into the ground anywhere. It could be electronic signals that go through satellite. It is the access that is important – that you have enough access to such capacity that you can be online. That's why I say that all of us can suddenly get into the living room if the technology evolves so that we might be able to operate from a mobile phone and a TV screen. As far as school is concerned, the statement has a content on that with primary school. All primary schools may be required to be online within a certain period of time, not just for school purposes, but for further development of the network, so that it becomes available in all parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e307	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e310	Today’s debate, based on the presentation by the IT Minister, is really about how Norwegian policy authorities are dealing with the technological developments that are changing the whole of society. Therefore, it is important to analyse and discuss the political and societal implications of the IT revolution and to propose what authorities should do to succeed. In this respect, it may be wise to listen to the countries that have done the best in the new economy. Ireland and Finland have been the two countries in Europe that have found successful policy solutions in this area. A third example, outside Europe, is the United States. The common experience that can be gained from these three countries is the importance of proper prioritisation in order to achieve success. Another important observation and recognition in the middle of this is that in recent times the national authorities have never had as little opportunity to influence developments as they do today. This changes the rules of the economy and creates new conditions for industrial development and thus the basis of industrial policy. It doesn't have to be a problem in itself. However, the problem is that political decisions are increasingly perceived as irrelevant by many people. The traditional policy solution is to use taxes as an instrument in the policy of distribution. But the traditional solutions don't work anymore. The reason is the globalisation of the economy, which means that resources are moved where conditions are best. And it happens to a greater extent and at a higher rate than before. Thus, traditional distribution policy instruments can prove to be an obstacle to innovation. One example of this is the property and option tax. The case of Opticom is generally valid for knowledge companies. Opticom had a turnover of about 14 million last year. kr and went with a deficit, but had at the turn of the year a stock exchange value in the billion class. The owners and managers have had to move out of the country, because with their modest earnings they have no means of paying the property tax. In the view of the Progress Party, this is a very unfortunate development. It must not be that we retain the IT competence here in the country only as long as the companies do not have significant success, and then move out their real main business when they succeed. Therefore, fiscal instruments need to be changed so that businesses remain in this country and new ones come into existence. Improvements should be made to make Norway an attractive area of establishment for the international knowledge industry. If Norway is to succeed, political authorities need to understand their scope for action and the instruments that work. And this needs to be followed up with action through a policy that is suitable to meet the new challenges. What should the Government do? Firstly, it should contribute to the creation of international cooperation solutions – a globalised economy requires supranational solutions – and secondly contribute to the standardisation of tax regimes across borders. In the United States, work is well under way to look at how the tax system of the industrial community can be adapted to the requirements of the information society. There is also a need for new standards for the dissemination of payments and the standardisation of the international business language. And thirdly, governments can influence development through incentives. Ireland and Finland chose to prioritise and to invest properly and in the long term. It was focused on education on a broad front. Finland prioritised R & D at a high level. The choice was made to invest in knowledge centres through interaction through education, research and business. One example is Technopolis in Oulu, which has so far been successful, and which is in the midst of a dynamic development with the establishment of high-tech enterprises. The establishment of an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is part of our national initiative to enable individuals, businesses and institutions to be at the same level in our country. Norwegian business is too much commodity based, and over 50 pst. of which exports of goods are raw materials. At the same time, we find that some traditional Norwegian companies are on the one hand confused, on the other hand merging and, on the other hand, moving out of business. So if we're going to do the necessary renewal and get more legs to stand on here at home, where the new economy can be given a prominent position, as it deserves, we have to lay the groundwork for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e331	The presentation by the Minister of Industry clearly calls for a minister who is ambitious in relation to the theme we are discussing here today, and most of the distribution is absolutely a reason to join. What I may be missing a bit, is a recognition that there is actually a broader policy here for which there was a good basis, and that there was also an ICT minister in the central government who actually did it very well in this area. I would like to quote Per Morten Hoff, president of the ICT companies' association. He said earlier this year: ‘This has happened more in IT policy in the last two years than in the ten years before that.’ One leads it further, and one has ambitions as well. That's good, but I actually thought one could be out of the question of saying that here leads a lot of things that have been there from before. I am pleased with the way in which the Minister acknowledges the eEurope proposal, and that one will create a programme adapted to Norwegian conditions, but at the same time follow developments in Europe. So what's important in the future? I think our head leak is going to be a lack of competence. The number of places to study is double, but much more is required. A very high level of capacity is required in the case of continuing training. In the past two years, there has been a lot of ongoing schooling. In fact, in international studies, when it comes to machines and equipment, we're among the foremost, but we haven't done enough in relation to the teachers. This was also the reason why the previous government quadrupled its efforts in terms of skills development. But here one needs to be creative, and we need a lot of actors, both public and private, to be able to close this gap. We also need a liberal immigration policy in this area, but it will never be able to cover the entire demand. The second thing we need to bet on, as well as competence, is research. We need research on a broad basis. Here it was well served in the research message and the Stortinget's treatment. I must say it is disappointing to read the revised national budget. The escalation plan for which the Stortinget and the current government party were a strong driver in the hall, and which is also supported by the central government, is not particularly concrete. Here the Storting must go back in and be more concrete to follow what the Storting has said – and it is important that we do, we should follow it here. It is clear that we need to see that this is an international industry that requires us to have competitive relationships and that it is not regulated, but with stimulation we can achieve becoming international and strong. I also think we should be careful to be anti-slip. We need a lot of humility in relation to this, because if you go back 5-10-15 years, you can see that prominent people have said totally wrong things in relation to how ICT developed. And we're going to do that here too, so we're going to be careful to be oblique. It is clear that with these new expressions – the new economy and all of this – we can easily go into a kind of spell that almost becomes like some kind of emperor's new dress. That's why we need soberness. And then there's another point in the distribution that I want to say a little bit about, and that's the Technology Council. To avoid this becoming the emperor's new clothing for the technology, which provides so many possibilities, and for one to have someone who follows it over, the Technology Council is important. Looking at the process in Stortinget before the creation of the Council of Technology, and the mandate given to it, there is a forward-looking mandate in relation to a superior thinking, one that will involve the whole community in the thinking of technology development. I'm worried about the formulations that were in the Council of State just when it's up to the Council of Technology. It sounded more like a wild back to an instrumentalistic thought, and not having an independent and free thinking to drag the whole people along. I ask the Council of State, to make me less alarmed in this field, to say that one is thinking of letting this continue as an independent advice. Of course, the Government itself decides which department it is to be attached to, but the Technology Council must be an independent body if it is to be meaningful to have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e355	The representative Lilletun concluded with the Technology Council, which is also my concern to the representative. It has a long history here in the hall, when a minority wanted a technology council appointed by the Stortinget to be set up. The reason why they wanted it was that the Storting should as such be independent of the Government. The majority went in to set up a Technology Council on the basis of what is available in Denmark, but chose to submit it to the Government. And it's the government that appoints representatives, in line with other selections that the government has. Now we see in the revised national budget that it is a wish that the Council of Technology should be moved to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And it's right, as Lilletun's representative says, that of course it's the government's responsibility. What I could imagine challenging the representative, Lilletun, is this: experience from other countries, I think, has shown that the kind of advice that will contribute to public debate, help raise exciting issues, become too closely linked to the administration. I believe that the experience, especially from Denmark, is that the kind of advice should be independent foundations that are not completely tied up in the administration. In Denmark, a technology council has been in place since 1985, which from the inter-political Danish environment is perceived as a success. Thus, the Council has participated in public vocabulary and raised exciting issues not only in information technology development but also in biotechnology/genetics and the many different and exciting technologies that have advantages, but obviously also ethical and other disadvantages associated with them. My challenge to the representative Lilletun is: could he agree to consider whether the Technology Council should actually be made completely independent, to make it an independent foundation so that it can thus fulfil the function of the representative Lilletun and I agreed when we in time promoted the proposal for the creation of the Technology Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e362	That's exactly how the representative, Djupedal, does the right thing for prehistory. From the interview debate, I can quote the representative Solheim – a quote that clearly describes what I think is important for such advice to do. The discussion was whether the Stortinget or the Government were superior. Then Solheim said, ‘It is not essential whether or not it is submitted to the Stortinget, but that a Technology Council is given a truly independent, independent position, so that it is not subject to current countermeasures in different departments or political environments.’ That is very well said, and it is exactly in accordance with the Danish Council. And I've looked further. It is very common in Europe that developments have gone in that direction when it comes to that kind of advice. Therefore, I am primarily busy that the work that has now started well – one has been fixed – is allowed to continue. Then I am not unagreed that it is safe to find even more exciting problem settings to put into a mandate. But what I'm busy with, is essentially to keep the independence, that one should actually be able to speak against whether it's a Prime Minister Stoltenberg, a Prime Minister Bondevik, a government councillor Knudsen, a government councillor Lilletun or a government councillor Giske. It's kind of what's my main concern here. And of course, in the professional community, we're going to have technology drivers, what I want to do in the whole area. But we also need someone who sees, and who says: Politicians, here it is the emperor's new clothes that grow! So if this is going in the wrong direction, and if we don't get a satisfactory response from the Council today, I'm open to considering other ways of getting the initiative back up later. It would be bad if we, as one of the countries of Europe, went in the wrong direction here and were not willing to have an independent position for such a council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e374	I agree with the representative Lilletun that education – primary and continuing education – is very important in this area. And it is not only Norway that has a problem here, but the whole of Western Europe is struggling with this problem. We must also state that we lack one million skilled workers in this area in the European Union, so it is a huge challenge we are facing. Some believe that the problem can be partly solved through increased labour migration. But we know that we are competing with the United States, which is now vacuuming not only the Western world and giving good conditions to those who want to travel to the United States, but also the Third World and trying to steal the skills from there so that they have great problems building up, and that makes us in Norway have trouble going that way to meet our needs. And it's also going to be a lot cheaper if we train that skilled worker ourselves. My question to Lilletun is: in the case of continuing education and training, it has been discussed that high-tech enterprises can contribute in this area themselves, but that they must then have incentives so that the same companies can benefit from the costs they have through continuing and continuing training, and then, for example, they will be able to do so. an option tax model into the picture, the so-called ‘golden handcuffs’ – that you have a tax model for options that makes it pay off to an employee of an ICT company, for example. to stay there for three years. Could the Christian People's Party go on with that philosophy and work on it to find solutions so that, on the continuing education side of the enterprise, you could be willing to do it yourself and feel the benefit of contributing financially to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e381	The Christian People's Party will be open to also look at that dimension when it comes to option taxation. It's obvious that this is a requested labour force, and one sees that it's actually starting to come up with transitional arrangements, a buyer of people, and there's a lot of struggle about these people. That options can also be a means here, I will not reject for my and for the Christian People's Party. But I might also want to bet a lot wider than that. If there's something that has surprised me in this year's payroll, it's kind of the after-school part. I'm overestimated that when it comes to a demand for more education and further education, there's something we need as a society. These are useful investments. In the new continuing training system, we have got this with competence development funds and a number of other schemes that can be tailor-made, where one spends most of the training on the enterprise and the enterprise in close proximity. I believe that by being creative and developing the full scope here in collaboration with study organisations, business organisations, public service providers and private providers, we can meet this need – which is great. So I'm open to what was the main question for the replicator, but I want to clarify: we need a lack of action to solve the gap that exists between us and that exists internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e386	A self-crust or self-confidence shall be heard, because it comes from the heart, says one. There is no particular doubt that the representative Lilletun was far inside the role of former State Council Lilletun. Now there's nothing wrong with it, but when the representative Lilletun tries to make it so that it's mainly in the last two years that ICT has been on the agenda in government offices, he's probably a little side by side with reality. It should just be missing that one not in this area also had a big activity in the government of Bondevik. But what got me to ask for a reply in the first place was that the representative Lilletun managed to present it as if it was disappointing that one in the revised national budget did not have a stepping-up plan on research. The representative, Lilletun, is well aware that the revised national budget is a proposition that tells us how the implementation of the 2000 budget is to be carried out and, in this way, it is not possible for a Member State to step up its research effort somewhat further. But in addition, the research fund has increased by DKK 1 billion in the revised national budget, and it is not unvalued. It would probably have been possible to invest more in research and other things if there had been a little more tidy relations after the government of Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e393	i may in one way mean that it will be between two previous state councils. Now I wasn't the one who said nothing had happened before in the last two years. I made a quote, and that quote was from Per Morten Hoff, who would be well-known in the ICT industry. He said it had happened more in the last two years than in the ten years before that. Of course, I thought it was a pretty good quote, but I didn't say it was, because I also know that it was done a lot earlier. The reason why I made it up was that one of the arrangements might give the impression that a lot of the initiatives that came out there, which are good, were new inventive. It wasn't like that. That was my problem. I gave a lot of credit for this being a government council with ambitions, which I thought it should be exciting to follow forward. But instead of saying that the things we were talking about, I came up with some points that I think it's right to bet on, and that's not a contradiction to what's in the distribution, except for the point that pertains to the Technology Council and the call for research. So I have to ask the representative Opseth to read the conclusions and decisions after handling the research message. There was a request that one in connection with the revised national budget come back with an illustration of the escalation plan, not that the money should come at that time, but that one could see how one would achieve the goals that one was talking about. I would probably like – if I were to carry on the quote work – to find quotes from current government members who are also present here today, who support it quite well. I am otherwise glad that the government of Stoltenberg also arranged for the one billion that the government of Bondevik had announced in the state budget last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e406	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e409	While the former state councils are looking for new quotes, I can use my 5 minutes. But I have to say that when I heard Lilletun talk about the fact that the Council of State Knudsen passed on what was there from the previous government, and I had heard Morten Lund just before that characterized the IT policy statement almost like an outbreak of an IT policy black death, I wondered if there were representatives of parties from the same centre who spoke. We have a country that can be described as a society of opportunity, and we have a population that has a very high level of education and competence. Now, when we're on the threshold of what you might call a time that's going to be in the sign of change, both for the individual and for the nation, it's important that we also process change competence. Stiff structures and reluctance to necessary changes will, in my view, be the greatest threat we face. The full-page lookout The evening post had a couple-three days after the IT policy statement, where they emphasized this with the need for change, as the Council of State Knudsen does in the presentation, and compared it with the agricultural policy debate that we had the same day, I think – just to say so – was interesting reading. I think that in the coming years we will succeed in creating an information society for everyone, it will require something from everyone. When the right has prioritised education on a broad front, it is primarily an expression that this will be needed after the oil age reaches the end – to an even greater extent than now. If we're also going to be on the world top in living standards in the coming decades, it's not enough to rely solely on the industries where we have a particular natural advantage. Of course, our traditional industries will be very important in the future too, but employment growth must be assumed to be elsewhere. That is why it is important to establish a policy in the area that we are debating today, which is taking place throughout the country. When I say the whole country, I mean the whole country, neither more nor less. The State Council's IT policy statement really seems to provide a good basis for further efforts to facilitate a development in which we have a high level of ambition. I feel that there is a high level of ambition in the Government, and the same thing I think is the case in the Storting. However, I believe that the tools outlined – to the extent that there are many tools outlined – may not be sufficient to achieve the objectives that I believe there is a broad consensus on. One does not decide that one should be at the top of the world in any field of business. What we need to do is to facilitate this through framework conditions that make it more interesting for business to establish itself in Norway than in other countries — it is not more difficult. When talking about framework conditions, some of this is mentioned in the statement, but it goes on as traditional and simple things as taxation, level of charges, rules on working time, etc. It's companies that are very mobile, unlike many of the traditional businesses that we have. One point that has been debated is broadband, what to do and what not to do. Here I fully agree with what is in the statement, and I will actually take advantage of the opportunity to strongly warn against what Morten Lund is going to do. I would say that to the extent that one would base a development on the central party's reflections in such an area, I think the strategy department in the central party will be a major supplier to the Technical Museum. This is all about things other than political decisions. It's about facilitating a competition that goes so fast that we don't have the ability to capture what's really happening, about demonopolising and deregulating. What we can do from the public point of view is what the statement says: stimulate a demand to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. It doesn't mean that I don't see that we're in such a situation that some places need to have a certain state commitment, but that one now in the introduction imagining that one could prioritize billions from the public, over the public budget, I think it's very unrealistic. I think this sentence, which is in the explanation, very well covers what is the Right's position: ‘The government will allow competition and demand to guide the development of physical infrastructure, and not a state investment line.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e436	A debate on technology and technology development need not necessarily focus on technology. What it should primarily be about is social development, because technology and societal development are very closely linked. And it is true, as some have claimed, that politicians will, of course, be far behind technological developments in many respects. If you think back to 1992-93 – you don’t have to go back any further – there was almost no cell phone in Norway. I remember the election campaign myself in 1993, when I carried with me a very car battery with a small cell phone on top that almost had no reach. So it's just seven years ago. One of the most visible things in the streetscape if you go from here up to the Castle, are all the people who are talking in the mobile phone at every corner up. So one can see that in many areas technology has gone an infinite amount faster than, let's say, political decisions and politicians can ever do, and that's what it has to be. But that means that a debate on technology is primarily about social development, what society we want, and how this technology can be arranged and created for us all. It creates many different dilemmas, not least ethical dilemmas. Medical development brings with it a lot of new technologies that are now capable of doing interventions and medical advances that we were unable to do just a few years ago. But at the same time, there are many ethical dilemmas that make one by political decision, and politicians necessarily have to deal with it, not as part of the technology, but as part of the social development they want. I believe that a weakness in the statement made by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade was that there was very little point to such ethical dilemmas and the direction we want. If we want this new technology on a broad scale to benefit everyone, then the individual political decisions we have to make are simply a matter of fact. One is this with study places, to start there. It's true, as some people say, that we want a huge number of people with IT skills in the years to come. Nor do I think it is realistic to believe that this workforce could be imported into Norway to the extent that Norwegian enterprises and the Norwegian public sector will need. However, it is also not enough to say that the educational institutions themselves should release funds, as the report states, to provide that type of study space. I believe that a cultural nation such as Norway needs to have the main subject of Plattian verbs, religious criticism and what else — the many small and small commercially attractive subjects offered by our higher education. This means that these subjects will be losers in a competition with the commercially attractive subjects. Therefore, the size needs to plan what we actually want and how to achieve the goal of multiple courses in information technology on a broad scale. I think it's Stortinge's responsibility. There is nothing in the revised national budget that suggests that one wants to go in such a direction, even though in all the last state budgets there has actually been a controversy as to how many study places we are going to set up in the field of information technology at the various universities and universities. It's not even a mention of evolution. Some newspapers suggest that Norway lacks 50 000 IT people and needs to ask India and Eastern Europe for help. It is clear that this is a national responsibility, and the Storting must go ahead and show the way. Nor is there anything about how to ensure that our primary and secondary schools have a technology that is capable of meeting futures. Technology has unlimited possibilities, but also many limitations. With regard to school today – and the school is the arena to learn this – the contrast between what the school has, and what we have in our own homes, is infinite. Many children have more high-tech computers than what we have here on Stortinget. The school is the arena — the common arena — for learning technology, but also for learning the constraints, opportunities, how to use it. That means you have to have modern software, and you have to have machines that actually work. It's a huge problem, because the differences in Norwegian school are very large, show all the studies. And I think with respect to reporting, that it is not possible to say that the municipalities can take the responsibility alone, with the strenuous economy that we have in many Norwegian municipalities. This would mean that the differences in Norwegian primary schools will develop further, and it is very worrying given what is stated in the statement, namely that Norway is the society of opportunity, and that we are going to get the whole of Norway online, as it also stated somewhere in the presentation. This means that there is an offensive commitment to IT, and not just focus on industry and industrial development, which most speakers here have mentioned. So we don't have to believe that technology is primarily industry, technology is so infinitely much more, and it should really be more of a mark on the Biggest debates on these issues. We can't regulate the technology, the technology goes into quantum leaps next to us, and we have to try to put a framework for the political aspect of social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e453	After the IT policy statement to judge, it may seem that the new thing that has happened in IT policy is that the letter little e has a new and totally immaterial role to play in the title of the Council of State, in the name of the department, plans and employees. I'm sure it's all fashionable. Apart from that, I would say that the factual content of the statement was very good, at least for the Left, because it is very difficult to find concrete measures in the statement that are not far from being investigated or put into action by the previous Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade and the previous Government. The focus on electronic commerce and management is on the principles of a national broadband effort, on comprehensive IT security work, on international IT cooperation, and on the focus on IT research and development. I must remind you that all governments, from and including Harlem Brundtland's last, have allowed IT policy to be coordinated by a separate State Secretary's Committee. But we need to go further in the field of IT, also in the case of completely new measures. In this respect, the Left believes that the presentation should have been a bit more exciting. Not least, the Council of State itself, at the time of accession in March, had created high expectations for rapid and offensive action, but not many research tasks were transferred from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, Telenor is not moved from the Ministry of Transport until the company is listed on the stock exchange. This means that for at least six months to come, both the ownership of Telenor and the telecommunications policy will be managed from the same department. As very much of the innovation in IT and telecommunications takes place in a tough, but healthy, competition between telecommunications companies, it seems unfortunate that this mix of roles should continue. However, state councils should be commended for the emphasis they place on close cooperation with both neighbouring countries and the EU on IT policy. With the new strength of the IT initiative, the eEurope initiative is, in the view of the Left, a sensible priority. The nine areas of activity that the report presented are so general that it is difficult to disagree with them. However, in terms of innovation, the presentation is characterised by an excessive belief in public institutions and instruments. We must not forget that it is people, not public instruments, who create values. It is precisely human creativity, competence and innovation that are the strong drivers of rapid IT development. Then an IT policy must also be aligned after that. This means investing in entrepreneurs and facilitating new businesses. In particular, it is essential that one authority clearly indicates that one respects and recognises those who take the risk of innovation in society. This was and is a main concern for the Left, and it is sad that that perspective is then to the degrees gone in the new government's IT policy statement. The Left will constructively support new offensive IT measures by the Government and will see to it that the Council of State gets its plans put into practice. However, it is difficult to avoid involving priorities in the revised national budget in the debate on IT policy. Apart from a joyful increase in IT research, the revised national budget actively slows down public efforts for an innovative Norway. The left, of course, agrees with the demand-oriented strategy for a national broadband bet that the Labour Party government will continue. There's reason to stress that, unlike an old-fashioned bet on direct state expansion, this gives double effect. Being a demanding customer stimulates development across the country, while at the same time modernising the public sector through new IT projects. It's important that we get the same price for the users. Broadband access for all schools should be an action that needs to be implemented quickly, but even here the Government is not particularly concrete. We've had a lot of tough debates over the last few years about the establishment of the IT centre at Fornebu. The current Council of State was in opposition to one of the most intense promoters in directing the project towards a particular stakeholder group. Time and again, large words were used when referring to the supposed meaning of Fornebu. Therefore, it is striking that this is not mentioned in a single word in her first IT policy statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e473	Kongshaug was concerned about this with possible role-mixing. He talked about Telenor, that the management of ownership would still be in the Ministry of Transport until the stock market introduction. I agree, to the extent that the representative said that it is important to separate these things, and that it is important to do so as soon as possible. However, it may be timely to remind you that it's not very long since we had a debate on exactly this, we actually dealt with a matter about it. The left was not easy to get along with; it did not work to get them into a clear sharing of these tasks. But I think it's very important that that happens. Kongshaug was interested in this with IT Fornebu, which he had expected should be mentioned in the statement. In the revised national budget, it is now proposed to transfer the administration of ownership from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is now building a separate department to deal with this. Obviously, getting Telenor will require even more competence than what you have, even though I consider it so that the competence of the department in the exercise of professional ownership is already really good. What I could imagine asking Kongshaug about is: does he support the Government's proposal to transfer this ownership to the Ministry of Local Affairs, or should the Government ensure that it is still managed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e484	As we recall from the debate on IT fornebu, it was a rather central point in the proposal that SIVA should be the body responsible for this. What I said in the debate at the time, too, was that in my opinion it is not a matter for the Storting, but a matter for the Government, to find out how to organize that work. I was also in that debate on the role of the Storting in relation to the Government, what we call big business. Now we remember that paragraph 2 of this proposal became a transmission proposal, and it is of course the government that decides how this is to be organised. So I don't want to go into this right now, just out of the principle here, that this is the government's responsibility. Another thing is that I have registered that the director of SIVA in today's business life says that we are continuing to work on the plans to share the state's ownership of the research parks. I would like to stress that, in my opinion, such a large-scale privatisation must be presented to the Storting before it can be carried out. I will now take the opportunity, when I have time in this reply, to ask the Council of State to confirm that such plans must be submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e495	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e498	I overheard a little discussion between two former government councils about who had done the most, and who had been most offensive in IT policy. Jon Lilletun quoted Per Morten Hoff in his post. I have to say that we, who were in opposition in Stortinget, did not feel the same way as Per Morten Hoff, that there has been more to IT in the last two years than in the last ten years. On the contrary, we felt that we in the Storting had to be drivers to get anything, and especially when it came to getting to an IT and knowledge centre, which the country so badly needed to increase international competition, and which we so badly needed to help the regional development environment. Then Jon Lilletun says that the former government should have somehow received some of the credit for the good in this distribution. Then I must say that it was Gro who was in government when this digital revolution began to come. Already in 1996 a State Secretary's Selection issued a report entitled 'The Norwegian IT Road. Bit by bit". And I felt that in all the distributions Sponheim had in Stortinget, there were a lot of quotations and exactly the same arrangement that we outlined in 1996, without the former Gro-regiering getting credit for it. Already then, ambitious objectives were set. Norway was going to be a veranda in front, and, as it has been repeated here now, we're going to rent out in the digital community. We have to be above all when it comes to the use, in the public and private sectors, and we have to look for framework conditions that make our ICT industry the most important thing. And why? Yes, of course, because Norway has an open economy. We are totally dependent on a competitive business, and then IT must also be a tool we can use there. Our starting point was very good, with a well-developed telecommunications infrastructure, with low telecommunications prices, etc. We're a little bit uncertain about our position now. It appears that Norwegian industry is behind the OECD average when, for example: liabilities arising from the use of e-commerce. An OECD report of 1999 shows that the OECD countries’ average growth rate for knowledge-based industries is twice as high as Norwegian. In areas by region, there is some uncertainty. That's why I think we still have to be offensive. Then what was mentioned in the previous article here, an IT knowledge centre project at Fornebu, is an important tool in the hope of developing a local and regional development environment. We must achieve much greater interaction between business, education and research, and not least we must put in place a necessary infrastructure. Now it's like this, and I think you should admit, it's not political decisions that have driven IT development. It has made the market, technology and decisions outside the political space. But our aim of being ahead of us still requires analysis of the challenges we face, and action by the authorities, as has been done in the Minister of Industry's distribution. In a strategy that one must then choose, one must take on the basis of what is Norway's constitution. We have a large, strong public sector, and we need to use it as users and advanced customers. We need to have greater interaction between the public sector, most people and the business community. But at the same time we have to have an opening, so that we don't exclude those who still don't have the ability to use the new communication. The fact that the public sector is ahead of hand gives many gains, not only to improve the public sector, but it makes demands on business. So the government, the authorities, has a task as regulator and concessional giver. Our task must then be to remove bottlenecks, while at the same time addressing some societal challenges in terms of privacy, legal security, etc. It's crucial that we have competence. Therefore, an effort must be made within existing educational institutions, one must focus more on research and development, and not least use the development environment as a useful tool. Finally, it's focused on some of the infrastructure. There's no new situation we're facing. When we reregulated the telecommunications sector on 1 January 1998, we also had to have a regulatory regime that put in place nationwide services at the most equal price possible. That regime is allowed in the Telecoms Act, and we can use it that day today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e519	After hearing the State Council Grete Knudsen's presentation of the IT policy, I could imagine giving her a small data print where it says: colon, hyphen, parentheses end. If you print this on a computer, you will see a small, smiling face: :-) I will give credit to the Council of State, or to the eMinister whom she would like to be mentioned, for her statement. In its presentation, the eMinistry is very high on the level of ambition for our IT policy. She also points to a number of important challenges that result from the new economy and the inclusion of the IT sector in our everyday lives. Let me draw out some specific points where I'm particularly pleased with the presentation. It's my general impression that the government seems to want to play on business in many fields, including: to improve access to the Internet. This is very important. The Council of State seems to have understood that there are still a large proportion of Norway’s population suffering from a certain degree of ‘data anxiety’ that does not have a daily relaxed relationship with the Internet and that we may need to help them to overcome their ‘fear’. This is actually a phenomenon that extends far into the Storting's own corridors and offices. It may be even more important that the Council of State has understood that legal processes in Norway are very late, and that, in view of the upswing of developments in the Internet and e-commerce, there is a high risk that a law will have expired on the date before the decision is taken by the Stortinget. That recognition has been waiting for many to come from the responsible political team. Of course, it is music in the ears of a progress party representative when a Labour Party Council talks about the will and ability of industry to regulate itself. We look forward to the practical impact this will have on the Labour Party's policy. We are also pleased that the Council of State focuses on the need to ensure that consumer rights and privacy considerations are properly respected. This is central to the Progress Party, and it is becoming increasingly complicated due to developments in IT. Another aspect that is also sweet music in our ears is the opinion of the Council of State that the objective is to simplify and streamline reporting between industry and public services. Whether this can be done by electronic forms and other electronic data exchange solutions is a great advantage. However, the Progress Party also naturally calls for a general simplification in relation to the bureaucracy experienced by business. Personally, I am pleased that a new law on electronic signatures is being worked on, but I would like to refer here to the Council of State's own statements that legislative processes are not particularly fast in Norway, and that we need to speed things up here. In the case of broadband services, this is a cost-effective development. Different estimates of costs have come up, one of them is about 18 billion kroner. The fact that the Council of State focuses on market players and will allow competition and demand to control development is very good. I registered that the Central Party representative wanted the state to be more engaged, and then the natural question for the Center Party would be: Where do you want to take these 18 billion from? We also welcome the Government's efforts to liberalise the markets for IT-related services through the WTO. The Council of State also pointed out that if we are to be able to convert Norway, we must first show the will and ability to convert within the departments, and I think that is a good recognition. IT, used in the right way, will contribute to a more open and accessible administration. This is an opportunity that we don't have to let go to the game. Businesses are increasingly in need of IT professionals, much larger than educational institutions can meet today. Since the Council of State has been the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee of Storting, I assume that this challenge is in safe hands. Below I hope that she will pay attention to following up the development of the Fornebu project, which may be an important part of this. The latter, I actually wanted to focus on the presentation. Finally, I hope that the Council of State in all its work, both as eMinistries and as Minister of Industry, will focus on its own opinions that welfare policy and industrial policy are closely linked. The only major weakness I see in the presentation is the lack of initiatives to adapt fiscal policies. My party colleague Øystein Hedstrøm has elaborated this in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e557	In November 1999, the Government of Bondevik set up a sample to make an overall assessment of the need for broadband communications in relation to how telecommunications market offers could be expected to develop. The aim of this sample was that Norway should continue to be one of the main beneficiaries of the opportunities offered by the use of information and communication technologies. The committee had several proposals for concrete actions, including: that all primary and secondary schools of the country, as well as public libraries, hospitals and municipal administrations are to be offered access to high transmission-capacity telecommunications networks. In the course of the next four years, the Committee agreed that Norway’s population will have access to broadband networks and access to broadband services in work, education and home at reasonable prices. The Christian People's Party agrees with the sample's view that Norway should be ahead of developments in information and communication technology. For many years, good communication years and transport costs have been important issues for business. Access to good telecommunications services at reasonable prices will be at least equally important for large parts of the business life of the future. The aim of Norwegian telecommunications policy is to ensure that all households and businesses across the country have high-quality basic telecommunications services at the lowest price possible. As technology evolves, we need to reconsider what basic telecommunications services are. When the Storting last year treated St.meld. No 24 for 1998-99, On some regulatory issues in the telecommunications sector, the Stortinget Government asked the following: ‘All households and businesses shall be ensured the possibility of connecting to a telecommunications infrastructure with a transmission capacity sufficient to make use of ever-new possibilities for electronic communications at acceptable prices. This offer is being developed in line with the need and development of the network across the country.’» And on the other hand, ‘The provision of high-speed network connectivity is assumed to be provided at prices which are as equivalent as possible in all parts of the country’.» I miss a specific mention of these issues in the eMinistry's presentation. I still expect the government to come back with a quick follow-up to the report from the Broadband Committee. It is an important political task to ensure the development of a satisfactory network of good quality and sufficient capacity in all parts of the country. But this doesn't necessarily mean that the broadband network is to be built by the state. The market and market players will contribute to the establishment of such a network. However, I have listened to the IT minister's message with a little wonder. Both in the presentation and at a conference on IT organised by the NHO on 27 April, the message was clear: «The government will allow competition and demand to guide the development of physical infrastructure». In order to ensure the pace, the Government will assess, if necessary, some State measures, primarily through measures aimed at stimulating users’ ability to demand broadband services in the market. In the debate last year, the Christian People's Party and the other centre parties, together with the Right, pointed both to universality and maximum price arrangements as possible instruments, if necessary to achieve the telecommunications policy objective. Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, current Minister of Finance, then head of the Workers' Party's transport fraction, went out into the media with the majority saying no to the Workers' Party's data wagering, and: ‘I am particularly disappointed with the Centre Parties. Instead of ensuring important societal goals, the Centre parties leave the market to steer development.’» So the working party has turned around. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to make it clear that it is important to follow developments and take action, so that the objective for households, business and other social life is achieved. So I note that the Labour Party and the Government of Stoltenberg now, after Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen has become Minister of Finance, has taken a different position from what the current Minister of Finance has previously stated. ICT is an important tool, but must never become a goal in itself. When the Council of State says that digital society is going to be a better society for everyone, I'm going to ask, how? Is surfing and doing things on the Internet getting better immediately? Is there going to be more closeness and human warmth of this? Has the State Council been blind to the effects? What are the values that will underpin the digital society to make it a better society, as the Council of State has said? How does the Council of State mean we're going to develop digital society, so that we still take care of human values as the most important thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e608	It is not surprising that we are betting on continuing training, because it was the Bondevik government that allowed the market to prevail. I don't control the technology, and many of us say we don't need it either, but all of a sudden we're IT users. And we communicate with the whole world. Technology knows no borders or borders. The world is there – on the screen in front of us, and it is never too late to learn. The size has in Innst. S. No 232 for 1997-98 pointed out that ‘the development of such a centre’ — i.e. an IT centre — ‘in Fornebu, business and educational institutions in the country should not be at the expense of others’. The question that must then be asked is: How do you ensure this? In Hedmark a large-scale investment is now being made through the establishment of Hedmark business park. The park is located in the Stange municipality of Hamar, and the centre must be a co-location of knowledge-intensive industries, FOUs and competence environments, and must be a regional power centre for growth and innovation. This should include, inter alia: also take place through the establishment of their own knowledge-intensive industries repair shops. Efforts must be made to ensure that the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is seen in the context of the development of business parks and environments in other parts of the country. A cooperation strategy, not a competition strategy, needs to be developed. Close interaction between regional environments can create a mutual exchange of knowledge and competences that contribute to value creation and synergies also for regional power centres. This interaction should be developed through binding links and agreements. In parallel, further efforts are needed to strengthen grant schemes, in particular targeting knowledge-intensive industries. This will help to manage the potential of regions to take risks and provide them with resources to build up their own competences and networks to other key actors. Norway is in the forefront of the use of the Internet and mobile technology – but ‘We are afraid to shop online’, said Dagbladet on 13 May. But if we want to speed up the development of e-commerce, we need new solutions that the normal Northman trusts. I therefore fully agree with Councillor Grete Knudsen when she pointed out in her statement that we must build on the will and ability of business and self-regulation and seek to avoid too many bottlenecks in the development of the new economy. However, it is important that consumer rights and privacy are safeguarded in the same way as traditional trade. In recent years, more and more international actors without national social targets have been making free use of the Internet. This means that a hundred million dollars disappear from the Norwegian market to private, unprofessional international players. In Sweden, Finland and Iceland, state players have taken up the fight by putting their own games on the Internet for the longest time, and Denmark is now on the verge. Common for all these countries is that they make the games available only to people with a residence address in their own country. In order to establish the necessary security also for games in e-commerce, technical solutions that are fully trusted by the individual customer are required. In fact, due to the requirements this imposes on technical solutions, Norwegian Typing has developed a solution that ensures safety requirements. Telenors cooperate with, inter alia: Norwegian Typing to meet the visionary challenges outlined by the Council of State Knudsen, namely that Norway should lead the digital society. There is reason to be proud that we have a company in Norway that has a world-leading technology for secure access to the Internet, digital TV, mobile systems, etc. In order to help ensure a Norwegian leading position in the e-commerce sector, Norwegian Typing also needs a clear signal to launch a pilot test and a market analysis to help defend funds for Norwegian sport, culture and research, otherwise the gambling crowns will disappear out of the country. This technology will then also be available to other actors, such as: humanitarian and non-governmental organisations. For it is absolutely right that the Council of State Grete Knudsen says: "The world will not wait for us. The development will overstep us if we don't take the command and sit in the driver's seat." I am asking that the Council of State also take this page that I have taken up, into its further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e642	Many people in the debate are focusing on the Workers' Party's turning around in its IT policy positions. I don't think there's any reason to criticise a party that has chosen to turn in a sensible direction to those degrees, although there's still a lot to go on that can be involved and ensure that Norwegian ICT industry can really become an international industry that also has exports as one of its main objectives. I think the government is giving positive signals on the issue of broadband. The important thing is, in my opinion, that the authorities have to set a standard, as they do in most other areas. It will then be possible to ensure that the State is given its task where the commercial interests do not extend. In this way we have succeeded in building roads in this country, we have made sure that there is electricity in all of our beautiful country, we have telecommunications services built up, and we are in a situation where the state has taken on its role in areas where it has been seen that the commercial interests have not found it interesting to go far enough. We cannot develop this industry into already becoming an A industry in the most central and otherwise a B industry, if we choose to wait for the so-called political governance and for the national budgets, because then we will really do the entire ICT industry and Norwegian business a bear service. I think it's important to get out of the start-up pit in this discussion, and you never do that if you're going to have the political goal of prioritizing everything and everyone, and prioritizing them at the same time. Then you don't get out at all. Start with school and start with business! The statement refers to the provision of fairly frequent reports to the Stortinget by the Government. What is said is that the statement lacked concrete objectives, and it lacked considerable practicality. If you want something to report, you have to have something to measure it after what you report. It is quite important, and therefore it is important that the Storting is able to set clear targets for the development we want and will have in the information society. The school has been affected, deservedly enough, by many actors. Norway is lagging behind in IT training. The situation in school is accommodating, to use a mild expression, often with old equipment that doesn't work. We see that they do not even have the money to maintain and repair the PCs. There is some money allocated to IT training for teachers, but almost nothing happens. I think it's worth noting that the National Educational Centre unfortunately works very slowly and almost ineffectively. In this industry, it cannot be avoided to release to commercial operators who have as a profession to develop and conduct IT-based training. It is also important that we follow developments in the European Union and look specifically at how we can stimulate competition in the telecommunications sector. Today, Norway has poor competition and is among the most expensive in terms of Internet access in Europe. I ask the Council of State to take an initiative to develop the Norwegian ICT industry into an attractive export industry. In this respect, I refer to the proposal for an export project for the Norwegian ICT industry which is currently being dealt with in the Department and ask that this matter be brought to the attention of the Council of State. There have also been some comments about taxes and options. I'm not going to say anything more than that we have to follow developments in Sweden in this regard, because the Swedes are going a lot further than what we are doing, which can help Norwegian companies to focus to a large extent on buying services in Sweden, simply because this is going to be cheaper. So for further education: today's system doesn't take into account concretely the skill needs we have, which are quite huge in this sector. Businesses and public enterprises need to be much clearer about what is available incompetence. Here the ministry must also take the initiative to create a database of information for those who require this service. Here I would like to point out that the VINN in Narvik could be a great institution to take on this job. VINN's Narvik phone and BEDIN are already well known among businesses and not least among entrepreneurs, so I ask the Council of State to consider whether VINN can't get assigned to this important task for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e659	With its high level of well-being and competence, Norway is the community of opportunities. But opportunities alone do not enable us to master the challenges we face. Mobilising, conversion and action are needed in the widest possible sense at all levels and in all sectors of society. We're talking about major challenges. In a few years' time, revenue from the petroleum sector will decrease, while the proportion of older people in the population will increase. Therefore, Norway, more than other countries, is dependent on new value creation to ensure continued economic growth and to keep the welfare state at a high level. We must seize the new opportunities for innovation and transformation provided by information and communication technologies, and we cannot wait! An important challenge for Norway in the future will be to exploit information technology opportunities for growth and value creation across the country, including: by stimulating the development and growth of the ICT industry. The Authority’s research efforts constitute an important framework for enterprises, and the rapid development in this area also calls for new major efforts in Norway, including: on pilot projects. Therefore, in the context of the revised national budget, the Government has also proposed an increase in the budget of the Norwegian Research Council of 11 million. kr for actions in the field of nutrient-oriented user-driven and strategic research with emphasis on ICT. In addition, the Government has proposed an increase of 5 million. NOK 4 million for the Norwegian Roma Centre. kr to Special IT measures. The total proposed strengthening of IT-oriented actions in the revised national budget is 20 million. kr. But as important as stimulating new industries, our traditional industries are becoming more efficient and innovative, so that value creation, competitiveness and productivity increase. Female farmers have just understood this, because according to a survey by Opinion, they will now trade agricultural machinery and manure online! Electronic commerce is also a priority area for this government. The aim is to increase the use of electronic commerce and business in all industries and businesses. We have to go from regulation to renewal and transformation, although it may be difficult for many of us. There must be fewer regulations and promises to deal with them. There is a need for clarifications and simplifications. And there is a need for increased knowledge in this area. Electronic commerce also has important social and structural aspects that will have consequences for people's jobs. This is an area where employee organisations see the importance of this. I have already started a dialogue with the Landsorganisation in this area and will actively follow up this contact through close cooperation. Electronic commerce and business activities show a violent development in Norway and the rest of the world. Developments are primarily justified by the desire to achieve a more cost-effective activity. Over time, it has been shown that the companies that ‘survive’ in the information society are those who have understood that the ‘value chain’ of the business must be designed to provide the services over the network. This will increasingly apply to the public service. Norwegian society has changed enormously in the last 30 years. The population demands more and more critical questions to society around it. If a society and its value base are to be viable over time, it must be in continuous development, and it must also be open to new solutions and values. What was right yesterday is not necessarily right today and tomorrow. If we are to be able to maintain a strong public sector and continue with the Norwegian welfare state, the public sector, and not least the services it provides, must take account of and adapt to such developments. To meet this challenge, the Government has in the planning programme for the renewal of the public sector to a changing public sector. We are now defining programme areas for work, where IT will play a role in all the different programme areas. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that increased IT use is not a target, but a necessary tool and, at the same time, an important driving force, which in itself will also lead to change. It will be a demanding task to realize the program, but I think the goal is achievable, among other things. by exploiting the opportunities offered by technology. At the same time, I would like to point out that the objective can only be achieved through systematic, long-term work, where investment is also necessary in order to reap profits afterwards. Norway is far from alone developing the public sector through the use of IT. In most European countries, the implementation of eGovernment and 24-hour or 24-hour management is high on the administrative policy agenda. Also in Norway, the Government will facilitate a day-to-day administration, based on electronic provision of services. We see this as a natural development due to the fact that more than 2.2 million Nordics over the age of 13 now have access to the Internet. This has been taken into account by parts of the economy. We see, for example: both banks and real estate agents are increasingly serving customers over the Internet. These customers will eventually expect many of the management services to be available in the same way. We need to find new solutions for a new time. This is why the Government wants a firm approach to IT policy through stronger coordination for the development of the Norwegian information society – eNorway. The government has also proposed the creation of a separate budget line for special IT actions of 4 million. kr to strengthen the coordination role of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. These include: the immediate need for action in the areas of IT security, IT vulnerability and electronic commerce. It's only been a few years since Petter Nome in the Rondo program introduced a new phenomenon, called the Internet, to us. What opportunities this technology was going to provide was probably few of us who understood that time. Today — five years later — most of us use the Internet, and in the next few years, development will accelerate further. Today we know that the possibilities are many. But we also know that the constraint is in our ability to exploit these possibilities. The key premise is that everyone is allowed to participate, that all are provided with user competence, and that all are guaranteed access. We have to build networks that are close enough and strong enough, so that no one falls through. We cannot risk new social differences between those who have access and those who do not have access in the year 2000. This will be taken seriously by the Government and increased efforts will be made to ensure better access. Gallup results for March this year show that 2.2 million Norwegians have access to the Internet, and 850 000 households have made connections. The latter shows a growth of 63 pst. since March last year. This is a positive picture, but that's not enough. The government will therefore give priority to improving the accessibility of the Internet, while at the same time focusing on key areas such as electronic commerce and business activities and contributing to the transformation and innovation of the entire economy, including the public sector. We know that the countries that will be most successful in future global competition are those who are making policies in terms of innovation and development of skills and attracting capital. Therefore, the Government will contribute to the development of partnerships between the private and public sector on: competence, innovation and innovation globally vis-à-vis competent capital well-functioning markets, i.e. Social responsibility of the EEA and WTO So far in the debate there seems to be a broad consensus on the presentation and the choices outlined, because a business policy and a business that is constantly changing will also guarantee a safe welfare society. As responsible politicians and social organizers, we need to address these challenges and at the same time be involved in facilitating an internationalised industrial policy, but based on important business clusters in Norway, which must also be in a transition and be much more committed to education, higher education and research than what we and they have so far been in power. However, a robust society must also build on the enterprises of the future, which will also thrive best in a society of high social stability and good welfare arrangements. And finally, I've got more questions, but I'm limited here to answering one, namely, about the Council of Technology, which will be transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as revised. But we will go through the mandate, because this Council must follow trends. It has to be active and also be able to be in the forefront and see the scenarios we're facing, in order to give advice. In addition to being skeptical, the Council must also see the possibilities. You have to initially not just find obstacles. There must also be advice that should be able to provide active measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e723	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e726	It is gratifying that the Council of State will continue with the project ‘Simplifying Norway’, which was launched by the previous government, even though it did not come very far. The form load on our companies was only reduced by 6 per million in 1999. But we need ambitions, and that this continues, I am absolutely sure that all small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway support. The fact that the State Council will rename the project, ‘A changing Norway’, is positive. She places her own personality in it, but also a greater responsibility. Former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade Lars Sponheim set out to reduce the form load by 25 pst. in two years, and my question to the Council of State is, she doesn't want to be anything worse? I'm sure the business community will demand that she have at least the same ambitions to achieve this. As the new technology evolves, there will also be greater opportunities to meet expectations. The members of the Industry Committee were on the east floor yesterday with the Council of State, where we had a seminar. We had an excellent lecture by Tom Scharning, chairman of the ICT-Norway, where he told us about how the framework conditions were of great importance, how Kavli moved his headquarters to Denmark because there was no investment tax there. He also mentioned that if you want an international superstructure, Ireland is tax-favorable, Dubai is tax-free, etc. Will the Council of State take part of the signals and information we received yesterday from top ICT professionals in Norway on the importance of harmonising tax burdens? I am thinking in particular of the property tax and the option tax that applies in our country, which is strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e737	It is true that the government will follow up the previous government's project with continuous simplifications that can make it easier for business, and then the entire IT page – the new technology – will also be able to help us in that area. But at least at this point in time, I don't think I'm going to set quite specific targets for how quickly you're going to succeed in breaking the laws and regulations. I think it's a laborious work. It was also shown that while the former Minister of Industry was very concerned about this area, new laws and regulations were emerging in another area. It is likely that there will also need to be tougher coordination within the government apparatus, so that the consequences of preparing new laws can also be seen. With regard to tax policy, we must look after ourselves so that our companies have almost equal terms with others. At the same time, I think it is important to stress that business leaders and businesses, too, are further developing the equality society and all the offers of our welfare society – which I assume they will – and also see it as an advantage in their business activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e744	First a few words about broadband. There is a strong support in this room for exploiting the market to bring about expansion – a rapid expansion – in this development. At the same time, I perceive the Council of State so that she stood firm that the whole country would have a share in it, and it is important to have it confirmed. Then it may and may need to complement the market with public action. What will also be important is price. Vik-Sandvik, a ship's technical consulting firm located in Fitjar, in the state council's home state, is an expansive, international company. I'm very concerned that they will get a price that makes them uncompetitive when they use the new broadband network. It's important that there is at least the same price. I want to and the Council of State to confirm that one has the objective that it can really be used in the development of districts, as stated in the statement. So that with the price it'll be and it'll be important to clarify. So it applies to the Technology Council. I totally agree that technological epsis should not be the main purpose; it should be following technology developments. There are two things that are important here, which I ask the Council of State to comment on. One is independence – that the Council has real independence to express its opinion on the new mandate, as stated in the preamble, and that it becomes a real independence. The second is that there should be no purely technological advice, but that the side of the layman should be there. Governments are busy with international connectivity, and if you see how these councils work internationally, it's independent, and there's playwrighting in these councils. I ask you to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e753	It was the Bondevik government, including the Center Party, that there were some rounds with here earlier today, that put St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, which concluded that the market would provide enough capacity. It took place that the majority of the Storting supported this, and the Bondevik government subsequently established a group. The Interministerial Group has now completed its work and the conclusion applies first of all to competition, demand and availability for all. In terms of demand, it will be important for society itself – public – to be demanding customers. This will help to increase demand, and this will also help to reduce prices. This government has further underlined what the Bondevik government has proposed, namely that society has a responsibility to ensure that it is also accessible to all. That's why I want to support Lilletun in what he also said, about the price of about the same level. So to the Technology Council. I outlined that you will go through the mandate precisely with a view to following the trends and giving advice. But within that mandate, which shows what we want from the political point of view, it must, of course, be independent. Otherwise, it's not that not a layman to the highest degree is also professional.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e760	In the statement, there are a couple of lines that I've been paying particular attention to, and that is a recognition of a reality that I think is important – there is the Council of State right. It says: ‘Norway is thus encircled by countries that are more attractive hosts for business activities.’ It is also stated: ‘Norway is lagging behind the countries around us.’ So we have a disability, and the Council of State estimates that the disability is increasing. That would mean that it is now time to make adjustments. And then it says about conversions just below that we have exposed many of the necessary conversions – that is, with the result that the handicap we have is increasing. What I could imagine asking is what areas – I kept saying in addition to agriculture – the Council of State believes there is a need for relatively radical changes. The next thing I could imagine asking is: Is the Council of State, in addition to having a certain willingness to recognise, also willing to take steps to reduce the handicap that de facto is present in those areas – this was stated both in the debate and to the extent in this statement – which are parameters of whether we are similar to our neighbours, whether we are in front or behind. It goes on things that have been recorded before. In the case of taxes, levies, rigid rules on working time, etc. Does the government have the will to do anything, or should you just continue to acknowledge? And in what areas within our society is what we have undergone the necessary transformations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e779	The new Labour Party government has, among other things: initiatives to renew the public sector. With our closeness to many of the relevant employee organisations, we also believe that it is possible to reach them in dialogue with them. It's one area. We also believe that the technology here can be used to get the available hands on the care side, which is also necessary. Gabrielsen referred to agriculture. To that end, the WTO negotiations will be decisive for a small country such as Norway. The former government provided a broad mandate and strategy for this work, in line with what the EU provided in this area. But the most important area in which we have to require conversion is R & D. We need to get the whole R & D level up in Norway; it's low if you compare it with the OECD. The technology content of our products is low if we compare with other OECD countries. At the same time, however, we have four heavy clusters that have opportunities to do so very, very well internationally, and the technology in their field should also be supported by the authorities. That is why I have also invited the employer side to work closely together on what we can do here together. I don't think we can just adopt results in the areas we're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e788	Governments use industriously the concept of ‘possibilities’ about the same thing as the Right Party and the Progress Party make as a multi-hazard, probably because we have a small wealth tax. I'm mostly with the Council of State, it's to the communities of opportunity we live in. There is a lot that is the result of sound political governance, among other things. that we have got infrastructure out to all places where people live: road, electricity, telecommunications, mail – and that has happened in a poorer time. There has also been political governance with the natural resources that have given us wealth, and provided the basis for the settlement. The EU's view on free competition, that it should be opened up for everyone to share in this, and that it should be invested where it is most profitable all the time, turn this upside down. The EEA Agreement prevents us from taking the political action we have taken in the past. I quoted Thorbjørn Jagland earlier today, who was dissatisfied with the previous government, who would not use political governance when it came to broadband expansion. Kofoed-Larsen has quoted Schjött-Pedersen's quasi criticism of the previous government, which was not offensive enough when it came to political governance in relation to the edges. I have also told you about Ireland's recipe for gaining control through the purchase of broadband capacity to sell out to regional players demanding development – i.e. really old-fashioned Norwegian political governance in a modern area. The question to the Council of State is: what will happen to the lack of broadband development in the districts before the Government wants to intervene and do something about it? Is it possible to make that concrete today? The districts cannot afford to wait many years for what others have already received.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e797	First, the criticism that I perceived was in the EU review. Now, most of the countries where welfare societies work for the benefit of their population, and at the last summit, social attitudes were clearly seen in what they put forward in relation to the eEurope plan, where education and well-being are at the core. And that has not exactly been the most prominent of the country that Morten Lund has highlighted here, namely Ireland. They probably have a very long way to go in some areas, but they have actually received EU help to improve some of the areas in which Morten Lund is involved. What is a reality is that it was the government of Bondevik that made it possible for the market to rule, and it is right that the Workers' Party and SV made a proposal that fell. The centre party was not on the proposal, the centre party had the same position as the government Bondevik, that it was the market that was to govern. After that, a group was established based on the majority in Stortinget, and the government of Stoltenberg has followed up what was the majority view of Stortinge. We believe that evolution has shown that this is right. That's right, but at the same time it means we have to run very tough on the education side and on the welfare system side, and we will do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e805	I think that the debate that has taken place today after the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade's presentation shows that it is a too narrow approach to what technology brings to our society. This debate has actually been a business policy debate, how to facilitate business policy in order not to lose out on competition, as it is called, with other countries, and what fiscal motives or initiatives can be taken in this context. But in the deepest sense, this is about a lot of other things, which are not affected in the debate. And I am surprised that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, who also has a history as head of the Education Committee, does not affect education with a single word in the debate here, relating to places of study, relating to how to provide technology and civil society, or we shall say humanities, that is, all the soft values in society, how to create a technological society, but how this affects us all, what it does with our higher education, not to talk about primary school and secondary school, how to provide for our youth, which is, of course, how to make this happen – that we actually take this inward. I think it might be more useful for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to think through this too until the next time she's going to make a statement about technological development, because the most profoundly it's not just about technology – and that's where we don't have to go – this is all about social development, what opportunities we have to control those pieces of technology that are interesting. Then, of course, business and creative and creative people will create an infinity of new things that we will not be able to discover until they are already a reality. This is what evolution will be like. But we have a different role, and I think that role is unfortunately too small for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade to have debated and tried to get into. Then I am pleased – although it is now added to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade – that the Technology Council should be independent, including with the playwrights. I think it should be carefully considered whether such advice should not be entirely independent, that it should simply be set up as a foundation, and that it itself defines not its mandate, but its agenda. It is also an important point not to follow trends as the Council of State says, it is important that it is trend-independent, that it is also defined in its own agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e814	In one area, it seems that the representative Djupedal and I would disagree, and that is that I have as a starting point jobs, and I have the impression that this has emerged in the debate here from most people. Safe jobs and jobs for the future are crucial for our welfare state and also for the ability to have a school for everyone, among other things. The representative says that we have chosen a narrower approach. It is probably also that the representative has not been aware that we have arranged for the development lines that we will follow and that we will establish an eNorway plan. In that plan, as we have pointed out what is now happening in the EU, education will be very central. But it is actually the Minister of Education who is going to develop further. It is strange that not in all its call for what we should do in the field of ICT on the education side, the United Kingdom has actually adopted a plan for ICT, a multi-annual plan, and has been very systematic in terms of the areas to be implemented. During June, the Government will present an eNorway plan, and all the different sectors will emerge. We will see where we stand in the different areas, and then it may well be that the Minister of Education finds out that the time is running so fast that even if we discussed this a few months ago in Stortinget when we adopted that plan, it must already be changed. But it's all the specialist councils that are together with and make the eNorway plan that is to be rolled every six months, and that are already coming in during June.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e821	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e826	One of Norway’s foremost advantages in the global knowledge economy is that Norway is a country where we have been able to distribute quite well. We have pursued a policy of education where the goal has been equal to the right to education. We have conducted a research policy in which we have built up competences in all the regions. We have conducted a transport policy where today we have a good starting point to achieve the goal of securing broadband networks for everyone. We've been pursuing a business policy where there's actually been a lot of money to support the creation of new businesses. We have a good starting point, but the challenges remain in line if we are to ensure this foundation – education, research, broadband and support schemes for the creation of new businesses, for example. In this structure, the objective of a fair distribution must continue to lie at the root, so that this can be a development that benefits the whole country, and that we can give everyone equal opportunities to be involved in development, regardless of gender and social background. As a young girl, I am deeply concerned that there is such a huge distinction between boys and girls when, for example, it is. search for IT training. Here, there is a need to apply measures already in primary school, and I hope that the establishment of the new basic course in the media and communication can help more girls to take IT training. More people here in today's debate have been involved in broadband development. I think that's very good, because the goal of securing broadband for everyone is one of the most important challenges we face in district policy. If we're going to achieve the goal of building knowledge-based business outside the central east region, we're dependent on having a high-speed network that covers the whole country, and with a competitive price. In this way, we ensure the creation of jobs, and that larger parts of central government and organisational life can be located in the districts. There are many here who have accused the government of being vague in the statement. I think the government has been very concrete when it has suggested that we build broadband networks to all the schools. By expanding broadband networks to all the schools, I hope that in addition, we will step closer to the goal of getting a better connection between school and work. And by the fact that the children are already in high school on-line with the rest of the world, we actually ensure the most important foundation for the whole of Norway to use IT.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e837	ICT is produced as its potential Eldorado. There is hardly any area that cannot achieve growth, development and expansion by using this new technology. The possibilities of its society, the Minister of Industry, talk about how it works out. Not least, this is being produced as a great deal of possibility for the districts. Distances can be reduced here, the need for a close professional environment can be resolved in ways other than physical proximity, and the broad potential of competences and other benefits we have across the country can be put into good use. Many people realize that ICT is a unique possibility for using the whole country. The possibilities are so absolute, but here, as so often before, there are stumbling blocks that can lead to the evolution being quite different from what we thought, wanted and thought would become a reality. In concrete terms, I am thinking about the use of the broadband network. There's a giant force and a revolution in the world of communication. But it costs to use this web. And not enough, it's much more expensive to use the broadband network if the user is located in the district than if he's located in a city community. As important as the broadband network will become, this can easily mean that what we thought would give the districts the same competitive conditions as the cities, on the contrary, can be opposed – a distortion of competition that weakens the position of district businesses. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State is aware of this and will help to ensure that there is a level playing field for broadband use, the same place where the user is located in the country. A good solution to this challenge will lead the new technology to the development of the nation that many hope and believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e850	The Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade’s IT policy statement shows that the Government has reintroduced the pace of IT policy. The tempo has to be up, because we've lost time. The working party has determined that all should have access to broadband services. However, the technology chosen is still unclear, but the technological list needs to be high. It is obvious that Norway should have a standardised network, for example: in relation to the EU network. Electronic motorways in the form of fibre networks are located with few exceptions throughout the country. In order to ensure access to all, there must be a division of responsibilities between market and country actors, as has been the case in telecommunications policy. In the case of mobile telephony, the requirement for coverage has been met within a framework that has been commercially acceptable to operators and reasonable prices for the services have been achieved. In parallel, an active competition has been created in the Norwegian telecommunications market. This combination of results is studied with interest from other countries. Norwegian telecommunications policy has been a success. Action to stimulate demand will help the country. The potential for improving the efficiency and improvement of the services provided by the public sector is significant. Experience has shown that e-commerce with air tickets gives an overall profit of 87 p.m., while online banking services have a profit of 89 p.m., while customers have received a greatly improved offer. The next major technological step will be that human speech will control computers. Physical contact with a keyboard will no longer be required. This groundbreaking technology is under development in Norway, at Voss. Through the company Nordic Language Technology AS, exciting environments have emerged to do this groundbreaking work. The workforce is international, and today there are 100 employees, who can grow to 1000 in five years. The centre party has, in the last analysis, questioned the Workers' Party's wish that all should have access to broadband services. There's no reason. But what would really be sad was if we now spent time discussing what we're agreeing on instead of resuming the time we've lost in the last two and a half years. The IT policy presentation of the Council of State has been very well received. The debate shows that. Thus, we have a good basis for taking back lost time instead of losing even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e865	There have been many good words, deserved words, about the government's offensive bet on IT, and not least the e-Betting. Broadband is a concept that is constantly emerging, and that is also often misused, because we don't have a clear view of what it really is. Of course, the most important thing is how capacity is. It seems like a lot of people think that we're going to get a net on our phone line. I don't think that's the way it's going to be -- it might look like the networks are going to work together more and more. In the analogue world, there have been clear distinctions between the sectors – we've had newspapers, we've had record companies, and we've had TV – which probably won't exist in the digital world. It is a paradox that the public — including the Government and not least the Stortinge — are not adapted to this development. Here are several committees and departments and jobs in each of their fields. That is why it is good that the Labour Party government is now so clearly signaling a stronger effort to coordinate and get a little involved in this development. Then we'll get on the Stortinget to do the best we can. Now we don't have to adopt any broadband, because it will come in any case – in several different formats. What becomes our challenge is to provide all the access and ability to use the networks, to create a market that works with open standards that are available, and that the whole country has good enough capacity. But then the question becomes, are we perhaps staring blindly at technology, so blindly that this won't be a success? The networks and technology must be gradually filled with content, and there must be content that preserves both «Business2Business» and, in particular, consumers. It's not our vision that this is just going to be a new system of billing, but also an opportunity to be an innovator. It does not help with broadband and access networks if it is not possible to deliver a product with content that is attractive to consumers. The development of services must therefore be parallel to the development of technology. A glaring example of this is the development of digital television in Sweden. It didn't help with technology when it was the exact same image you got. The development of the second generation Internet needs to be stimulated, and here the public has an important role to play as a large consumer with the ability to be an innovator. But also in other areas, not least in the traditional media, public efforts are crucial for Norway to be given a leading position in digital development. We're not there today, but we have enough opportunities if we're able to take the right action. It will mean being able to see the networks together and ensure full coverage with good capacity. But at least it's as important to develop the services and offers that digitisation provides, otherwise we're at risk of being stuck with the beard in the mailbox any one of us. And the public can be a significant innovator to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e876	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The President proposes that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade's statement on the Government's IT policy be annexed to the minutes of the Stortinget meeting on 9 May 2000. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e892	There is no lack of ambition on behalf of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. If the industry is to reach an export value of NOK 100 billion over the course of 20-25 years, the authorities will have to discuss how they themselves can facilitate the achievement of the objective. And if we are to do that, we have to give answers to tomorrow's solutions other than today's concession policy. It's ripe for redemption. When the Norwegian Fish Breeding Association this year celebrated its 30th anniversary, the association could look back on a bit of an industrial adventure. Norwegian aquaculture has had a development that probably no Norwegian industry in history has seen. The industry today delivers results that no one could know for just a few years. Norwegian fishing industry has more to do with now than ever. This applies in particular to the aquaculture industry. If we look back to 1971, there was a sharp slaughter of 100 tons of farmed salmon in Norway. In 1999, Norway exported 424 000 tonnes of salmon out of the country. Although salmon are dominant, it is interesting to note that the production of trout has increased from 540 tonnes in 1971 to 49 000 tonnes in 1999. Only in the last five years has the first-hand value of salmon and trout increased by over 50 pst. In 1999, the industry accounted for a turnover of DKK 12 billion, representing 40 pst. of the total turnover in the Norwegian fishing industry. The amazing development of Norwegian aquaculture has naturally aroused both national and international visibility and given the industry the reputation it deserves. Evolution has naturally given both the pioneers and the actors both joys and sorrows. Today's the day most joyous. Why this success? Well, first of all because we've had very good people in the industry, who after years of testing and failure deliver a first-class product that the international market wants. But perhaps most importantly, the basic assumptions that this industry has along the Norwegian coast. The coast is long and tailor-made for the breeding of fish. Both the climate and the flow of water at sea along the coast are beneficial for farming. The next premise that is currently in place is, of course, the solid position of Norwegian fish in consumers in the international market, despite numerous barriers to trade. We are talking about an international market that has not been accustomed to meeting Norwegian farmed salmon with open arms, but has given farmers and exporters a number of concerns. We are also talking about an industry that in these years has met challenges and losses of algal blooms and diseases, followed by large-scale antibiotic use. These problems are as good as cleared up by the road today. The path to today’s success has also gone through a different organisation than the traditional fishing industry has chosen as a model. It's obviously been an advantage. However, the main challenges are likely to have been the lack of and lack of trade agreements with countries representing the main markets for Norwegian salmon. Over the years, the industry has met with a number of groundless allegations of dumping and subsidisation. The result is that the industry has to live with feed quotas and minimum prices introduced in 1994. In the EU market, Norwegian salmon industry has met real resistance and challenges. And probably it is far to secure market access to the EU. As long as we are outside the EU and are given an EEA agreement that does not take into account one of Norway’s leading growth industries, we are wise to face ongoing difficulties in the EU market. A relationship is the existing salmon agreement with the EU that reduces industry growth, but in the future it is more serious that we are in a situation where we can process salmon industrially to a very small extent. This is also due to the poor EEA Agreement. As long as we stay outside the gate, the EU may put new obstacles in the way of Norwegian farmers. We've also seen the problems the industry has and has had in the United States, for example. in the United States of America's implementation of the Penal Code in 1991. Norwegian authorities have regulated the industry from the beginning of 1973 and from the same year subject to the concession obligation of the industry. As the industry evolved from being a so-called industry, we have seen that developments have forced organisational and political changes. Among other things, the requirement to live and operate has been removed. We see today that there is a significant concentration in the industry. Today, the 25 largest in the industry are likely to control almost half of the total between 800 and 900 concessions given. The increase in production and turnover that has taken place imposes new requirements on tomorrow. We see that the industry is at full speed into Oslo Stock Exchange. We also have a law that may not be entirely capable of monitoring development. We have seen that concessions have to a large extent become a sales product. The management of sea areas and concession ownership create new debates and raise new questions that today's concession policy does not answer. We're going to find every professional person in every sector of the aquaculture industry. We are seeing strong trends today that the financial environment has seriously thrown its eyes at the industry. This is positive, but of course it raises a number of questions. Today's concession system is not appropriate for an industry that will become the new locomotive in the Norwegian economy, a concession system that opens the way for concessions to be actually traded on the stock exchange and where some are given the opportunity to make large sums of money by means of state-allocated concessions. Over the years, we have seen that the industry and the authorities have discussed concessions, feed quotas and, above all, expansions of existing concessions. I don't think today's state concession policy is good for the industry, for Coast Norway, or for the development of the market. It prevents new start-ups, growth and value creation and excludes local entrepreneurs. It should therefore be wound up. The farming industry today appears to be the only one of our modern industries, which is controlled in detail by the state, and which also cultivates an additional system that allows for exemptions etc. Rather, the State should facilitate relations in other areas. I am thinking, not least, of research, education and Norwegian policy on market connectivity, whether we are talking about the EU or the WTO. Customs and other barriers to trade for Norwegian farmed fish place restrictions on the growth, processing and value creation of farmed fish. The industry is currently subject to the Fish Breeding Act, the Pollution Act, the Fish Disease Act and the Planning and Building Act, and is experiencing the law as complicated and unbridled. Right wants a clean-up and simplification of the law. At the same time, municipalities must work more actively to make suitable areas available to the aquaculture industry. The right will in principle repeal the food concession schemes of the Fish Breeding Act. With the exception of health, environmental and competence requirements, the freedom of establishment in the aquaculture industry should not be restricted. However, the anti-dumping threat and the so-called voluntary export restrictions to the EU make it necessary to restrict the growth of edible fish production. The feed quotas are currently allocated on the basis of the food fish concessions allocated and set clear limits for the production of each breeder. Until the conclusion of the salmon agreement with the EU, the concession restrictions should be maintained. The feed quota system and the concession provisions should be phased out in parallel with better market access to the EU for Norwegian edible fish. In smolt breeding and production, for example, marine fish, shellfish, etc. the freedom of establishment should prevail. In this context, it is imperative that the Norwegian authorities work actively to remove the anti-dumping provisions contained in the WTO Agreement. If we succeed in that, we can, in the Right's view, remove the concession regulations at a speed. The industry should be freed and focused on requirements for knowledge and environmental and veterinary conditions. The responsibility of the authorities is to pursue an environmental policy that takes care of the coast and the growing area, as well as for wild fish, as well as for farmed fish and crustaceans, not to regulate who is to breed. It is a matter of public responsibility that sufficient areas are put at the disposal of the industry, not to regulate who is to farm. Of course, there must be restrictions on ownership and a law that adequately respects the rights and interests of the local population in the attractive sea areas, but it belongs to the past to regulate a farming industry by means of concessional schemes. Of course, when changing or abolishing the concession scheme, existing actors must be compensated for the losses they may suffer by the loss of value of the concessions themselves. Administrations need to take much more initiative in developing species other than salmon. An industry that – and it also includes Stortinget – has the ambition to increase its export value from DKK 12 to 100 billion over a 20-year period, deserves a new policy to achieve these results. If it is the case that the Minister for Fisheries wants to maintain the concession arrangements, I must allow myself to ask why. Is it for market reasons? In that case, he should agree with me that the concession arrangements should be terminated in line with better market access. Or is it for environmental reasons? In this case, the question must be asked whether environmental considerations should and can be addressed through schemes other than the concession system. Or is this also a product of old-fashioned regulation thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e918	Values from the sea are Norway's future. Between 1986 and 1999, we have had an average annual growth rate of about 10 %. 18 pst. in the production of salmon and trout. Very well known, we do not have any other export industries in Norway that during the same period can indicate an equal growth. Several independent institutions, such as the Norwegian Research Council and the Scientific Society in Trondheim, have identified the aquaculture industry as a sector with a high potential for the future. The preliminary results of the ongoing project ‘A value-creating Norway’ under the auspices of the Handelshöjskolan BI rank the marine food industry as the highest value-creating industry in Norway. Today’s aquaculture management is based on the 1985 Farming Act. The law requires a concession to be granted to all types of fish and shellfish farming. The award of a concession focuses on health, the environment, competence and other uses of the site. In addition, market and regional policy assessments are forthcoming. The concession system of the Breeding Act helps to coordinate the treatment of the various authorisations of public authorities for the simplification of nutritionists. I would say that the Breeding Act does not prevent, but rather facilitates economic development. Sea area is a natural resource that belongs to all of us. The fact that some are allowed to engage in aquaculture means that part of the common area of the community at sea is linked to other interests. As the representative, Kristiansen, may find it difficult to imagine a system in which there is complete freedom of establishment. There will always be a need to safeguard the interests of society by taking care of the surrounding environment, preventing the spread of disease and ensuring a balance to society’s needs for alternative use of the site. However, the concession system in the Breeding Act also takes care of other interests that I consider important. The law ensures that regional policy and business policy considerations can be taken into account when granting exclusive rights in the coastal zone. In addition, the law allows for market developments to be taken into account. As I will come back to later in my answer, it is essentially the market that has limited the growth in the production of salmon and trout in recent years. Since 1985, for cetaceans and aquaculture activities other than the production of edible fish from salmon and trout, it has been almost free to establish itself. When I say almost freedom of establishment, this is due, among other things, to: that the interest in obtaining special shell concessions in recent times has been greater than what our administration has managed to get away from. There is also a restriction on the assessment of health, environment and other uses of the site before the concession to aquaculture activities can be granted. A little bit simplified we can say that there are limitations in the scope of the individual concession, but not in the number of concessions. It is a challenge for the management of aquaculture to ensure the faster processing of applications for start-up. It is also a challenge to have legislation to ensure that rights to operate in the coastal zone are granted to serious and qualified business operators who can further develop this industry at appropriate locations. We must seek to avoid rights to premises becoming speculative objects for people who do not intend to start business. Breeding of salmon and trout is in a position different from that of the other aquaculture activities in many ways. With the exception of re-allocations, no new concessions have been awarded on a national basis for farming with salmon and trout since 1985. I'd like to see us open up to more start-ups to make faster use of the potential for value creation that lies in our coastal areas. Unfortunately, we don't have a market access that allows us to take this potential out as we would like. This is because we have been met with dumping and subsidy charges from our main trading partners, the United States and the EU. The last time in 1997, the European Commission provided support to Scottish breeders in allegations of Norwegian salmon dumping and State aid eligible for equalisation. The Commission imposed a penalty duty of about EUR 10 000 per year. 15 pst. on salmon from Norway. The Norwegian side disagreed with the Commission's calculations and assessments. Following negotiations, Norway and the European Commission agreed on an agreement in the salmon case, the so-called salmon agreement. The agreement is valid for a period of five years and includes, inter alia: an obligation on Norway to limit the annual growth rate of exports to the EU to 10 pst. per 1 % years. Growth in production is regulated by means of the Breeding Act by means of the concession system combined with feed quotas, which was introduced on 1 March 1996. The salmon agreement is very important for the Norwegian aquaculture industry. ==References== 70 pst. of salmon exports to the EU and covered by the agreement. The agreement will initially expire in 2002. Whether or not the measures against salmon exports are continued depends on whether or not the continuation is requested by Scottish authorities and, where appropriate, on the outcome of the investigation which will take place. It is, however, gratifying to note that the regulations put in place as a result of the salmon agreement have had the desired effect. While under the agreement we have the strictest production regulation we have had, the aquaculture industry is experiencing record profits and stability in relation to our main market. The market share of Norwegian salmon on the Union market has remained stable over the same period, with 63 pst. in 1997 and 63 pst. in 1999. In other words, we have not lost market shares on the EU market in the first period of the salmon agreement. The aquaculture industry operates biological production where production decisions have to be taken a long time before the products are placed on the market. This means that it is not possible to control supply to the extent that one can in the case of the production of non-biological products. Variations in the supply of salmon and subsequent fluctuations in the salmon price give rise to instability and unforeseeable effects for the food business operator, as well as to trade policy effects. The release of the growth of salmon production would, in all likelihood, lead to the introduction of trade defence measures by our main export markets. As long as EU legislation on the fisheries sector is not part of the EEA Agreement and we are not a member of the EU, it does not appear possible to remove the EU’s dumping weapon. In any case, in order to increase the predictability of economic operators and to ensure a balanced and profitable development in industry, overall regulation of the growth of production is important. Until now, the Ministry of Fisheries has taken this responsibility. Concessions for salmon and trout farming have also been used as a regional policy instrument in the development of coastal industry. Today, we can see that this policy has been largely successful. Today, we have leading companies in the aquaculture industry that have their head office and the main part of their business outside the major urban centres, to enrich local business and regional development in coastal areas. As we cannot release the production of salmon and trout, I believe that the authorities should still have the opportunity to manage the priority areas. Salmon farming can contribute to the development of economically weak areas with a high potential. My goal is for the aquaculture industry to help reverse the migration flow. I also believe that new concession awards can be a food policy instrument to exploit the potential of the aquaculture industry as a whole. How this is to be done, I don't yet have clear opinions about. One way to do this may be to link the authorisation to breed salmon with, for example: investments and activities in the breeding of other species. Experience in salmon farming should be able to be transferred to the breeding of marine species so that they can be commercialised more quickly. In today's situation, I will not take the initiative to abolish the possibilities offered by the Breeding Act to regulate the aquaculture industry through the concession system. As the production of marine species, shellfish and other anadromous fish increases, it is necessary to keep open the possibility that these products may also experience the same problems as salmon exports. It is therefore appropriate, in my view, to maintain the possibility of governance also for these species. In my opinion, the main responsibility for the ongoing adaptation of production should in principle lie with the industry itself. However, history has taught us that the overall framework of government may be necessary to ensure balanced growth, profitability and market access. Like me, the marine industry represented by the Association of Norwegian Fish Breeders believes that in the years to come it is necessary to establish a framework for the production growth of salmon and trout. At the annual meeting of the Association on 12 April 2000, decisions were taken whereby the Association of Norwegian Fish Breeders supports a system of concessions and a system of feed quotas. However, I am open to the conclusion that in the longer term, a higher degree of consideration can be given to entrusting management with the growth of production to the industry, individually or collectively. The issue will be part of the revision of the Breeding Act with a view to a new Aquaculture Act and in the design of national strategies for the aquaculture industry. In this work, we will assess regulation and instruments for the aquaculture industry on the basis of an overall objective of helping management to facilitate the realisation of the industry’s value creation potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e959	I thank the Fisheries Council for the answer, and although I disagree with his main conclusion, I join in much of what he expressed. This is basically a district industry and will always be, and I also see that here there is every reason to avoid that this industry should appear as a speculation object, which has just proved to be the case, among other things. and mainly because of today's existing concession system. I don't think you can use the international agreements to justify maintaining the concession system. It is clear that in the aquaculture industry, which in all other industries has to deal with the agreements that have been concluded. But it has always been shown over the years that the state had to control this in order to control and control demand in line with the offer you have. It was said in 1990-91 at the FOS bankruptcy that this was among other things. was due to overproduction and that it had been awarded too many concessions, given too much capacity. Today, production is three times greater than in the case when the Fish Breeders’ Sale – FOS – went bankrupt. What's my main point is that today's concession scheme helps prevent growth and development. It prevents many coastal communities from creating new developments; it prevents many entrepreneurs with knowledge that goes around and wants to get involved and become actors in this industry. It cultivates a system that makes you have to have a lot of money, you have to have a lot, a lot of millions in hand to get access to this industry at all, and we should make sure that it doesn't get that way for the future. I think the authorities need to use their powers more to ensure that there are areas at their disposal, and follow this development closely. We need to spend even more time with the EU and with the trade agreements that we have concluded, which have ridden and ridden this industry like a mercenary. And even more so than so far, we need to clarify our views in the forthcoming WTO negotiations. Despite the fact that you have all the regulations of the world for government, we see that this concentration comes of itself. There are a few, 25 actors, who control almost half of all concessions. We have also seen that you have money in your hand and access to the stock exchange, you have the opportunity to enter and become an actor in this industry. But the entrepreneur out on the shores who sits with the knowledge and who has the veterinary conditions in place, he is prevented from entering the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e972	I am pleased that the representative Kristiansen agrees with me that there is a need for some regulation of the farming industry, but we share the view of the main conclusion. I think it's important that we realistically relate to what our framework conditions are. Many times we have experienced that the freedom that has, after all, been within this system has resulted in that we have produced ourselves into overproduction. These are sensitive goods for the European Union, and so we do not have the market access you want. It is also true that we have no signs that we can expect significant changes in this market access with the contractual relationship we have today, especially with the EU. It's a reality that we have to deal with completely. I can't say that the concession system that we have is preventing growth and development. We see a significant interest in getting started with species other than salmon and trout, and we see that there is a consensus that these species have a significant potential. I think, however, that if we're going to succeed in making these species evolve, we have to make sure that we still have the tool that the concession system is. We need to make sure that we have areas at our disposal for these types of schemes, and we need to make sure that entrepreneurs have safe framework conditions to work within when they get started with new species. Otherwise, I agree with the representative of Kristiansen that in terms of ensuring continued improvement in trade conditions, we must make a significant effort to do so, and that the tool for this is the World Trade Organisation, the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e986	We can therefore conclude that Norwegian farming is Norway’s second largest export industry — not alone, but also with the rest of the fishing industry. It concerns the industrial production of marine biomass. Unlike fish catches, we talk about having close control of production factors, from planning volume, growth rate and delivery to quality and size, according to the different preferences of the market. Breeding is over the first pioneer phase and is now research and knowledge-based. It will be decisive for further success that the right to carry out activities in coastal zones is granted to serious and qualified operators who can and will further develop the farming industries, not only in the case of salmon and aure, but also to new species such as squats, crags, cod and shellfish, and who take responsibility for the further processing and use of the whole raw material. In the future, access to own premises could become a defect factor, and there are many concerns to focus on each other, as reported by St.. No 43 for 1998-99 Protection and use in coastal zones illustrates. It is only by taking both environmental and business considerations that the farming industry can develop and have legitimacy for most people. I think we need a simplification of the regulations and laws associated with the fishing and farming industry. But I'm not in agreement with the interpellant that the concession arrangement should be lifted. I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries announces a review of the farming laws with a view to a design that facilitates the release of the value creation potential we know there. It is important that such an audit be carried out in such a way that it lasts for some time. There is reason to recall that the Norwegian Fish Breeding Association itself believes that there is a special need for the production growth of salmon. Our biggest limiting factor is market access. Our own market is small, we're not a member of trading blocs that secure market access for fish. We can't tell the truth out of it. We might be able to sign into a trading bloc, but it might also take time. If we want to secure market access, this is the basis for a new quantum leap for the farming industry. Summerly, I think it's time to think about how the road should move forward, and what kind of direction we're going to let the concession arrangement take. But I don't want to end the concession arrangement. I don't think we like the nation or the nutritionists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1007	It's a very important thing that interpellant Ivar Kristiansen addresses. The establishment threshold in the industry is alarmingly high, causing the industry to lose enormous nutritional potential. We are in complete agreement here. If the vision of the researchers in SINTEF is to become a reality, namely the fact that the farming industry will become our largest export industry in 20 years, it is urgent to remove all the production regulatory measures that characterise the industry today. Indeed, production regulation increases costs. As a result, there will be less margins and less to invest in product development, further processing and resource-intensive marketing. If we are to achieve the long-term objectives and be able to exploit the enormous potential that lies there, long-term framework conditions must be provided based on full liberalisation and freedom in industry. The breeding industry must be treated in accordance with the other competitive enterprises and industries. It is therefore with pleasure that we now record that the Right comes after, and that they will now repeal the concession arrangements in the aquaculture industry. When the Progress Party proposed a similar approach during the treatment of the aquaculture industry in 1996, the Right and all the other batches voted against. All key considerations, such as: environment and veterinary matters may be covered by the other legislation. There is simply no need for a special law for breeding. Indeed, more and more have realised that concession schemes have provided a structure among manufacturers that is not adapted to impact-resistant units. Therefore, several years ago, the Progress Party promoted proposals to repeal the Breeding Act. It is therefore important that we now make a settlement with the concession scheme and other adjustments in the farming industry. The industry can then expand more freely in the market and probably consist of both small and large units, as is the case in Chile and Scotland, where no such industrial structure regulation exists. In this way, we can best facilitate the adventurous growth and development expected, which will lead to the full availability of the entire world market to our breeders in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1022	Both the interpellant and the state councils have provided a very thorough description of the possibilities of this industry and like the advent of a fairy tale in the years that this industry has existed. Personally, I have to say that one of my great aha experiences when I got into a new field of business, was when I started to look at the research page and what possibilities lie within the industry. Therefore, it is not difficult to join this. But when you've heard the description of the good development that has been, and then how impossible it is to live with the concession arrangement and the promise that one has, I don't get it all to go together. Because that's the law and the concession arrangement we've had, this expansion has happened. Then it's clear that in a period of internationalization it's necessary that we see at regular intervals whether our arrangements are such as to hinder them. But it definitely doesn't look like this right now. And we also have to remember that one of the main reasons why we've had this concession arrangement is that one has to open up for new ones in the industry without having to pay a lot. The second reason is that one has viewed this as a significant contribution to the development of the district. It is gratifying that the industry in which one says it is the greatest potential, is actually an industry that, until those degrees, is district-based based on nature's premises of this industry. So I don't see any reason to go into winding up the concession scheme, but of course, I'm going to ask the ministry that a lot of time is awake in relation to things that are developing and that might seem to change, so you have to review it again. But a tool that has worked doesn't see a Christian People's Party any reason to change now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1033	Also in this case, the Right sees enormous problems and talks about the multi- handicap of the industry, while the others see the possibilities and that this is going well, and that it goes well because we have had the public regulations that we have had. There is agreement that the marine resources provide us with great opportunities, and that they should be exploited so that the whole coast benefits from it. That's what we've secured through the regulations that we have. We have had limitations and control, which have helped with this. The fact that growth has to be controlled when the market is limited has given us more experience. We experienced cracks when the regulation of smelt production was lifted, and by allowing imports, we got disease in, and it cost us enormously, there were many who had to give up for that reason. I also believe that we should learn from what has happened on the food fishing side with regard to the other maritime industries. But we need a review of the legislation we have, because we see some unfortunate trends, such as: now the possibility that Hydro Seafood may be sold abroad. There is no one who likes – at least there are very few who like it – and then we have to try to do something about it. Ensuring national ownership and getting us a tool for it in this industry, which is so special, I think we need. We need to look at the size of companies – how large they should be when we want the result of value creation to benefit the entire coast. In my opinion, we should also ensure local and long-term ownership through the successive new awards. We should prevent speculation with concessions, and I feel that there is agreement when we hear that it costs $25 million. kr to get a concession, and now the right also said that it makes no sense that it should be. Limited opportunities provide best opportunities for those who own the most money, either now limiting it through concessions or something else. We should also try to provide new players with opportunities to start with what pays best, i.e. salmon and trout. I believe that we need to have a quick review of the law. The centre party is in a hurry, because we see how fast the development is in terms of the possibility of flagging out, in terms of structure. While investigating, it should be possible to increase feed quotas as much as the market can. Then, in our opinion, the next concessions should be given to those who are small, who have proved faithful to local ownership – to those who have been in the small, but who have too little. They should get the first concessions. And then we should have decided at that time in the Storting for what's going to happen next.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1046	That part of the farming industry involving salmon and trout has its biggest challenge in the market. And we've had repeated examples that the industry is easily exposed to import measures and restrictions that make the output we want domestically not have the market for disposal. We know that the salmon agreement that came about was absolutely necessary in order to sort out matters in this area, and it works in a good way now, in my opinion. I think it's important to have overall regulation in terms of concessions in the farming industry, and as I see it, there's also a majority for that in the political environment. We also register that the union, Norske Fiskebreiteres Association, agrees with this. I think it's important in such contexts to listen to those sitting in the middle of it, who see the consequences of the decisions being made. As many people have experienced, the industry has predicted a great future, and we have a great potential based on the natural conditions we have in our country. But it's not just the natural conditions that are a big advantage. I also want to attach great importance to the competence and knowledge that we have gradually gained in the industry as a competitive advantage. And it's probably one of the most important things that's happened in terms of controlling production and avoiding the cyclical phenomena that we've witnessed in terms of industry. We also record that there is potential for new markets — it takes time — and also for new species. In the case of a concession, a public document is awarded on application. We have recorded that the public document has gradually become a gold-plated paper, and you have to question whether that is the way we really want it, to award a public concession that can later become a commodity. This applies not only to the farming industry, but also to the fisheries industry in general. To conclude, I would just like to say that the main elements are largely well taken care of by the current legislation, and at this point I see no reason to have any radical changes concerning the concession regulation itself – whether you have concessions or not. However, this does not imply that reviews and adjustments are not necessary. And finally, here too, there is a need for simplifications in the field of form and reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1062	It's an interesting interpellation debate we have here today. The interpellant points out that the establishment threshold has become very high in order to enter the farming industry. Yeah, that's right. I will mention another industry where the establishment threshold is high and becomes high, namely the fishing industry. This is about buying a place in the future industry in Norway. There are a few words about the areas at disposal. Yeah, that's just one of the main points. Do we have areas at our disposal when we finish the treatment on Thursday on the impact assessment of the implementation of the Coastal Protection Plan? It's going to be an open question. The Coast Guard Plan is ready to be clubbed in the Government. The coastal protection plan is not to be dealt with on Thursday, but that is the impact of its implementation. I can't wait when the interpellant talks about it being expensive to establish in the farming industry: it's expensive to establish in the concessional fishing industry as well. Very expensive. It has become expensive to establish itself in the unit quota-related fishing industry. Right is one of the main number pipes for the introduction of unit quotas in the coastal fleet. Does the interpellant then see that becoming a coastal fish can also be expensive? That is precisely the point when I go against the introduction – because the threshold for establishing itself will be terribly high, even to be allowed to drive chess. That's the problem. The entire fishing industry and aquaculture industry is becoming a speculator for those who can invest on the stock exchange and who sit on Aker Brygge and drink champagne — while the coastal population is to be housekeepers of the stock exchanges. Is that how we want it? Is such future growth potential to be managed as pointed out in the SINTEF report? The only way is to make more stringent closures, to strengthen the participation law, to strengthen delivery obligations and to obtain stricter concession conditions for the establishment of marine farming, so that local interests and local ownership are safeguarded over shampoo-drinking stock exchange speculators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1073	Let me start by saying that I am happy that the Minister for Fisheries reports a review of the Breeding Act. I think it's high time. In particular, I think it should be obvious that some warning lights have to be lit when one sees the trends this industry is moving in the direction of, that the main forces in the Norwegian financial world have now thrown their eyes on this industry. We see that this is the most attractive food on Oslo Stock Exchange for the time being. We can't live with the reasoning that finally gets hanging again as a conclusion here. Because it is expensive to enter the coastal fishing industry, it should also be allowed to remain expensive to enter the aquaculture industry. That's the variant and the model that the majority in this room wants to cultivate further. With all the legislation and legislation at our disposal, how in the name of heaven it has been possible for Nutreco to enter and take over and become the large, heavy locomotive within this industry by means of Norwegian concession law, etc., etc.? This does not lead to anything further, except that it must be allowed to ask the question: how are we going to move on from today's turnover of DKK 12 billion to achieving the beautiful objectives of the Research Council, Sintef and others in politics, that in 20 years we are going to achieve a turnover within this industry that is going to exceed DKK 100 billion? If we are to succeed in this, there must not be an industry that should be reserved for those who have the financial industry in their backs, which can absorb 20 to 25 million in equity. kr, on it as a representative formerly here on the Chair called a gold-plated paper. Yes, it's a gold-plated paper! When Morten Lund asks us to grant concessions to people who cultivate the local ownership: Yes, I am absolutely convinced that anyone who has been granted concessions in a customary way has been a follower of growing local ownership. But it's obvious that when you have an opportunity to become multimillionaire overnight, you get caught and get tempted by this offer. I will not draw the conclusion that all the developments we have had have been unfortunate. On the contrary, it is true that the results show that it has gone in the right direction, but you can't say that if you hadn't had the concession law in hand, the results would have been a lot more sad than they are today. It cannot be established, and the documentation must be the FOS bankruptcy. The same political parties that today warn against the concession law used the FOS bankruptcy as the visible and final evidence that overproduction was the ultimate cause of this industry then going around with broken necks. Today we produce three times more, and the goal must be to multiply the number by two, because the evolution from 1995 shows that the value creation has increased by 50 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1082	This has been an important interplay for me as a new fisheries minister. I believe that management will continue to contribute to the positive development of the aquaculture industry. I think it's positive that the investor community also sees interest in this industry, but I don't think they see interest in this industry because there is a concession system that has great value, where the values may be in the individual concessions. I think there's a positive interest from investors because you have faith in the industry, because you have faith in the potential that's in the industry within the system that's been practiced today, which, in my opinion, appears to be a quite gigantic success. I believe that this debate has shown that the Storting shares my commitment to the industry. I'm glad. I've got a lot of useful and important input that I'm going to bring with me and follow up on the further work. I intend to come back to Stortinget during the autumn with a statement on long-term strategies for Norwegian farming and on a value creation programme for the aquaculture industry. That statement will respond to the decision of the Storting in connection with the examination of St.melding. No 51 for 1997-98, prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry: ‘The Government is asked to develop long-term national strategies for the Norwegian farming industry, the aim of which is to secure the industrial framework conditions needed to develop in Norway. Particular attention must be paid to improving market access for Norwegian farmed fish in the different markets.’ The statement will also respond to the Storting decision of the statement debate on 23 March: ‘The Government requests the submission of a valuation programme for the aquaculture industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1097	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1111	The application for a concession from Filefjell Reinlag A/L is initially a local matter, but it has important principal aspects of both national and international nature. Norway is the country of Europe, with the exception of Russia, which still has a population of wild European mountain purity. This animal was the very basis for Norway’s population after the last ice age. The wild rain was the main reason why our ancestors followed the ice masses as they moved northwards for approx. 10 000 years ago, and the wild train should therefore be regarded with respect and as a national symbol. At international level, Norway has assumed responsibility for biodiversity management, among others. through ratification of the Berne Convention, which we have incorporated into the wild law. Today, wild areas in Norway are under heavy pressure from many literally cross-border interests. Powerlines, watercourse regulations, cabin construction, ski runs and even organized skisurfing competitions with parachutes through our wild areas are involved in breaking up the remaining wild rein biotopes in ways that could threaten the populations. I would like to start by stressing that the wild rain is a particular type of responsibility for Norway, and that we cannot therefore place a unilateral emphasis on commercial interests, but must use the precautionary principle of environmental protection to be on the safe side. In our legal basis, the habitat base of the wild reindeer, its various barrier effects and hence the necessary and necessary boundaries to protect the habitats and functionality of the wild reindeer are not preserved. The Filefjell Reinlag A/L concession application is an intervention in a limited mountain area with native wild rain, Lærdal-Årdal wild rain area. The State of Oppland has recommended a concession on the basis of value creation and good results from previous domestic operations in the area. For this purpose, it can be stated that the domestic operation at that time led to the eradication of the indigenous wild reindeer, while at the same time it can be demonstrated that the subsidised domestic reindeer operation, in comparison with wild reindeer hunting, results in less local value creation. I have asked the Minister of Agriculture in my interview to assess three aspects. First, a general rejection of new domestic concessions where conflict with wild rain is present. The conflict is to a large extent present in the application under consideration, in particular in view of the fact that during the previous period of domestic operation the wild rain disappeared from the area. Secondly, the Minister of Agriculture is asked to initiate buffer zones between wild and domestic areas in order to reduce the potential for conflict. In this round, I would like to limit myself to pointing out that the concessionally sought area will operate a wedge between the Vest-Jotunheimen wild rein area and the Lärdal wild rein area and prevent free migration between them. The areas in question do not have natural divisions or fences against what are now wild areas. On the contrary, if the concession is granted, natural closures, which E16 and Rv 53 currently constitute between existing domestic drainage operations in Vang Municipality and the wild rain areas westwards, will be removed. These natural fences cannot in practice be replaced by fences, for economic, legal, meteorological or biological reasons. This can be documented. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the reindeer industry has apparently not shown interest in cooperation with the wild reindeer interests, by the fact that the proposal of the County Council of Sogn and Fjordane to the ‘Reinconciliation Council’, drawn up on a mandate by the Directorate for Nature Management, with representatives of wild reindeers and selections already appointed, has been ignored by the other party. This naturally brings me to the third and last situation I have asked the Minister of Agriculture to assess – whether preparation and proceedings in such conflict-affected matters should be subject to other than the authorities of the reindeer industry. I suppose it is unnecessary for me to explain why I believe that today's procedure makes it possible to claim that it is to let the reindeer guard the low bag. This procedure is not satisfactory on the basis of sound administrative principles. It would be more reassuring if such contentious issues were dealt with by the Ministry of the Environment. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Directorate for Nature Management and the wild reindeer interests in the present concession case point to an unacceptable risk of loss of a newly reestablished wild reindeer, and that the loss of a species of responsibility will be met with little international and, for that matter, national understanding. Furthermore, it is pointed out from the same point of view that fencing is unrealistic and unacceptable from an environmental point of view. When neither the applicant nor any of the hearing bodies have demonstrated that the extended concession is essential for the further economic operation of Filefjell Reinlag A/L, I agree with the Executive Board's conclusion that the concession is refused.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1141	Filefjell Reinlag A/L has applied for a concession under the Law on Reindrift § 5 for extended grazing area in Vang and Årdal in relation to existing concession area. The application is currently being prepared by Rein driftsverwaltungen. For the requested area, leases have already been concluded between the landowners and Filefjell Reinlag A/L. From July last year and out of the year, the application for a concession was on a wide-ranging consultation round in Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane counties. The application was also sent to relevant country-wide organisations for consultation. Since then, the application has been sent to the Directorate for Nature Management for review and opinion by means of consultation opinions. The application and the hearing opinions received are now at the reindeer management office in the South-Trundelag/Hedmark. The Tamrein operation in South Norway is subject to administrative controls under this management. Further in the future, the reindeer manager will make his recommendation to the reindeer manager, who is preparing the case for the nationwide Reind driftstyrelsen. The latter will provide its assessment and advice to the Ministry of Agriculture. I have to ask for an understanding that I cannot go into a specific application and case which is currently being dealt with in the Reinbruksverwaltungen and which will end up with a decision in the Ministry of Agriculture. The decision will be taken after an overall assessment of the case and as required by Section 5 of the Act on Repurchase Operations. With regard to the questions and requests made by the interpellant in the second part of the interpellance, it is not advisable for me to say anything about the outcome – neither about the application currently under consideration in the Rein driftsverwaltungsverwaltung, nor about future applications for the concession under the reindeer management law. It is Section 5 of the Purification Act that is the legal basis for such concessions. Of course, both in accordance with the Law on reindeer management and under common management rules, applications where there are leases or where the applicant otherwise disposes of the required area will be dealt with by the Rein driftsverwaltung and the Ministry of Agriculture. Several factors will determine whether an application is to be rejected or granted and, in the event of approval, what conditions are to be imposed to grant a concession. When the interpellant addresses the question of so-called buffer zones between the areas of domestic and wild rain, it is only to say that this need could vary, and it therefore needs to be assessed on the basis of the conditions in question. This is the case for buffer zones both ways, and it is also necessary to travel when wild areas are assessed established in the vicinity of areas where domestic practices are carried out. Tamrein shall be grafted and guarded within its pastures and moved between different seasonal pastures. The reindeer management law imposes an obligation on the owner of the domestic farm and the reindeer must remain under proper control and be kept in a legal area at all times. Villarein is, as the name says, wild animals, and cannot be lured or hunted by the law. The interpellant sees itself as if the State reindeer management should be subject to ‘own bodies of the reindeer industries’. The clean-up management, i.e. The reindeer accounts at regional level and the reindeer manager at central level are subject to the Ministry of Agriculture. This is the responsible sectoral authority and is the external and professional body of the department. The Land-wide Board of Purity has been appointed by the Ministry of Agriculture and by the Sametinge. The Ministry appoints the President, the Vice-Chairman and the majority of the Management Board. Procedure and procedure must be considered at all times, but I do not see any technical or formal reasons why these tasks should be transferred to other or new administrative bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1175	I have full respect for the fact that the Council of State cannot go into a given concession application as long as it is being prepared. I have therefore tried to make this a general interpellation. When I have gone into this matter, I have registered that there are of course two camps. Of those, as far as I have an overview of, 19 hearing opinions that have been received, 15 are clear in disfavor of giving concession. The four who have expressed a positive opinion are the State of Oppland, which has set aside its own department, the environmental department, which has voted against, and in addition uses as a main argument that it is possible to distinguish wild and domestic with fences, which I do not have time to document here is an impossibility – and in addition it is the Vang municipality, it is the peasantry in Vang, and then it is a joint organisation for domestic construction – i.e. pure business interests, while all others and with a particularly heavy weight the Directorate for Nature Management are opposed to this. And the arguments are the ones that I've used. I cannot oppose the fact that the Minister of Agriculture does not want to go ahead in a discussion of the principles I have set up, but I will follow the matter with considerable interest. I hope that this debate has led to an interest in this important principle being taken by those who are directly involved in the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1182	I have noticed the interview with the representative Terje Johansen and the arguments that Johansen has put into the field for his view of the matter, and it is of course important to keep it in mind when the situation arises that I have to decide on the current concession request. But at the same time, I hope that the representative Terje Johansen agrees with me that the process related to that decision cannot be done through the Spokesman of the Stortinge. The case has been at a thorough hearing, and as Johansen himself is involved, there have been a number of hearings. That would mean that I would like to have a good basis for making a decision when the time comes. What I've been concerned about is that it's not at this point that bombasticly states that looking at new concessions related to domestic operations in areas where there's also wild rain, is almost excluded on a principle basis. I am concerned that those in this industry should also have a reasonable opportunity to explain and apply, and that a thorough examination of the application should be carried out, and it should be noted that in the evaluation of the application there will be a great deal of emphasis also on the situation of wild fauna in the area concerned. That procedure seems to me to be working well, and there's a lot of input into this kind of thing, and I'm comfortable with it. Finally, it has been important for me to stress that I have confidence, of course, that although the name of this child is the Reinhørningsmanagementen, it does not mean that that administration is unable to have a greater perspective than just the commercial interests in the matters they deal with. At least I feel that the Ministry of Agriculture through Rein driftsverwaltung has a good external office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1191	Several have not asked for the floor, and Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-19.ana.ud455e1200	There is no record.
