ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e138	When I take the floor late in the evening, it is not primarily because I want to start some debate on this matter. The reason is that the representative Carl I. Hagen briefly returned to the processing of the report in Stortinget noted that it was unusually late both in the government apparatus and here in Stortingen when dealing with EEA matters. I believe even Hagen said he was embarrassed, both on behalf of different governments and on behalf of the Storting. When the representative Hagen admits that he is embarrassed, it must be basically serious. Case No. 17, which we dealt with a few minutes ago in Stortinget, was caused by St.prp. No 46, who passed the State Council on 14 April. The Committee on Transport gave its opinion on 5 June and, as I said, the Stortinget is now dealing with this matter earlier today. Ot. pp. No 51, which we now have to deal with here in Odelstinget, passed the State Council on 26 May. The Committee on Transport gave its opinion on 5 June, i.e. 10 days later, and we have the discussion here in Odels-Tingen now on 13 June – 18 days after the case passed by the Council of State. As I said, the reason why I take the floor is that I want to refute the claims made by the representative Hagen, that it takes a long time to deal with the EEA issues in Norway. Since the case, which today is about something as trivial as the law on computerized reservation systems for passenger transport, went through the EEA Committee, we write about seven months until the case has been processed in a large number of cases, and so much time must be spent when dealing with these important issues. Sense of the matter is likely to be adopted unanimously now in Odelstinget, in line with the staging proposition that was made a few minutes ago in Stortinget, there are quite extensive legal issues that require some preparation. But, as I said, it is important to deal with these – relatively complex issues – in a fast and effective way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e149	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e163	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e174	Odelstningsproposition No. 25 on the law on state hospitals, etc. has been presented by the Government of Bondevik. The proposal was not withdrawn after the change of government, but the Workers' Party has made some amendments in the committee that I expect the Workers' Party's representatives to explain. The aim of the bill is to open up a wider range of hospital affiliations from which county municipalities can choose. The objective is the possibility of a greater degree of hospital exemption, while ensuring overall governance, public transparency and administrative principles. The question of the form of association of hospitals has been addressed by the so-called Sørensen Committee, and the proposition is based on this sample’s investigation and the hearing opinions received. It is important to note that the proposed new form of association should not be imposed on the county as the only possible solution. On the contrary, the county councils have to take explicit decisions requiring the law to apply to a specific hospital establishment, nor is it proposed to cut off any of the forms of association available under the law in force to the counties as hospital owners. In this context, you have used the term'menu' to express that one here has a choice between hopefully 'beneficial' options. Then it is perhaps a paradox that the type of connection proposed, namely the county hospital company, has received less attention in the public debate than in particular another possible form of connection, namely a limited liability company. The Ministry has stressed that the form of a limited liability company in general is a poorly suitable form of association for public hospitals. A majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advancement Party and the Right, agrees, and the Labour Party and the Socialist Left even specifically want to prohibit the organisation of municipal hospitals as a limited liability company. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that in special cases it may be appropriate to use a limited liability company as a form of ownership, such as: for parts of an enterprise, for any management of new types of enterprise, and in specific cooperation situations, such as: whose country and county are to own hospital activities together. We stress that the establishment of a hospital as a limited liability company after the draft law requires approval by the department, and that it will only be appropriate in exceptional cases to approve the form of a holding company for a hospital. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right have a different assessment of a limited liability company as an organisational form and make proposals accordingly. In the case of foundations, there is widespread agreement that this is not an appropriate form of association for county hospitals, but that it may nevertheless prove appropriate in very special cases and that it should therefore not be specifically prohibited. However, it will also be here that the establishment or transformation of county hospitals into foundations as well as into limited liability companies after the bill will require approval by the department. With the new form of organisation, the municipal hospital company, for which the majority of the committee, all except the Advance Party, is in favour, the county councils are thus given a new choice for the organisation of their hospitals. The administrative organisation of hospitals will continue to be a current form of organisation, but by organising hospitals as separate legal objects, as they will be as municipal companies, a model with continued public ownership of hospitals and public administration will be opened up and county municipalities will have the necessary control over the financial framework of hospitals. At the same time, the hospital management is given an independent responsibility for the operation. The risk of a negative outcome through the organisation of hospitals as independent legal entities may be present. It is important that a greater degree of freedom does not lead to less cooperation or that economic considerations become dominant over health policy considerations. It is therefore, in my view, a task for the regional health committees and the county councils to follow up on the fact that some county hospitals are not developing a governance and operational practice that is contrary to regional and national health policy objectives. Therefore, it is important, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, that the law includes, in Section 10 of the bill, a provision that the ministry should be given approval under assessment, inter alia. shall focus on societal considerations. It is the overall health policy objectives that must also govern the form of association of hospitals, and I am somewhat surprised that the majority of the Committee is opposed to this legal paragraph. The Christian People's Party supports the bill as presented in the proposition, and therefore promotes proposals for individual paragraphs in accordance with this provision in cases where the majority vote deviates from the proposition. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e200	Are Neess has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e203	This new law on hospital companies provides for greater liability and new opportunities for public hospitals. The county council can now give hospitals greater responsibilities and better opportunities for planning and implementing hospital operations if they choose to apply this law. I think it's important to stress that there's a total amount of stuff in favour of this law. This should be a good basis for many hospital owners to assess whether the operation of hospitals can be organised according to the lines and regulations of the Hospital Company Act. The objective is to provide hospitals with a greater degree of responsibility, while not weakening public responsibilities, but respecting overall governance and administrative principles. The Labour Party rejects and proposes a prohibition of the law against a limited liability company as an organisational form for a publicly owned hospital, because the Share Act is a law for limited public liability across the principle of full public liability. Furthermore, a limited liability company is primarily adapted to the management of commercial or other business activities for the purpose of dividends. The Labour Party – and I – believe that Norwegian public hospitals should not be turned into business objects. And I think that's reason to stress the following to those who would like to open up to a limited company in Norwegian hospitals: opening one first to a limited company, also opens one to the possibility of bankruptcy. The very current situation in Norwegian hospitals is just like bankruptcy. I am very surprised that the centre parties, and in particular the centre party, open up the possibility of a limited liability company. I am aware that in the form of a note, these parties do not refer directly to the form of the company. In common notes with the Workers' Party and SV, they go against the idea of dissuading the form of the company, but what they do is to keep the possibility open, and by opening up the possibility of saying yes to a limited liability company, they have far removed the possibility of saying no – for one cannot say yes or no. These parties could have chosen to be associated with the Workers' Party. And since it was so important to have this opportunity, I have to ask, what public owned hospitals is there a thinker could be suitable as a corporation? What this matter is primarily about is the law of a hospital company. The functioning of hospitals is influenced by a number of reforms in the health sector, such as: free choice of hospitals at the same level of treatment, input-driven funding, partly based on activity, clearer patient rights, clearer management responsibilities and enhanced resource efficiency requirements. This requires hospitals to change faster than in the past and adapt their operations to patient access and economics. The County Hospital Company Act probably makes the necessary change processes somewhat easier than today's purely management models, among other things. by becoming an independent legal and economic entity. But there is reason to stress that the county council is fully responsible for the company's debt, and that bankruptcy is obviously not possible. I would also like to point out that it is a clear premise that county hospital companies are part of the cooperation in the health region in line with other hospitals and are part of the regional health plans. Nor shall these hospitals place a unilateral emphasis on economic motives. The majority – the Labour Party and the Centre Parties – agree that it is the county municipalities that conclude and terminate collective agreements on behalf of the hospital company, unless the statutes provide for the hospital company to have such authority, as is stated in the law. One of the important elements of the model is that it facilitates a clearer division of roles, a clearer division of responsibilities between contracting entities, i.e.: the county and the hospital services provider. It is also the case that there is a rapid development in the private health sector that imposes increased demands on public health both on the supply and demand side. The question of the extent to which the ministry will enter into an authorisation process when reorganising hospitals was carefully discussed in the Committee. The Workers' Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, considers that there is no need for the Ministry to enter into detailed approval processes once it has only been opened to the hospital form by means of an association law. We believe that the handling of an authorisation case will take time and could lead to delays in an already strongly wanted reorganisation that has been the subject of a comprehensive local process. This may also give rise to confusion about the responsibility for the implementation and design of the use of a hospital company, and, in addition, it may be said that this would be in line with local democracy principles. On the part of the Workers' Party, we stress that if a hospital owner was not to adhere to the general health policy objectives, the Ministry has full access to use the specialist health service law § 4-1 to intervene, even in relation to possible formations of limited liability companies or foundations. § 4-1, Recognition of health institutions and health services – after the entry of the representative Næss, I almost have to refer to this paragraph in its entirety – reads: ‘The Ministry of Health must authorise the Ministry before it can provide health services.The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health may provide for the approval of the Ministry of Health (a) other types of health institutions and health services than those referred to in the first subparagraph, (b) substantial changes in health institutions or services that are authorised. In assessing whether to grant authorisation, attention may be paid, inter alia, to whether social or professional reasons justify the recognition of the health institution or healthcare, whether the health institution or healthcare has been admitted at regional health level, as set out below. § 5-3 and the services to be provided to patients appear to be sound.The Ministry may attach such conditions on a case-by-case basis to the authorisation required to ensure compliance with this Act and with its provisions.’ I believe that the proposal in the proposal on new § 4-2, as the case-rapporteur, the representative Næss, referred to, if further deepening of approval, is completely unnecessary, and I refer to the quoted paragraph. The Labour Party believes, like several other parties, that it is necessary that the division between the company meeting, which may be the county council, and the responsibilities of the board are clearer than in the legislative proposal. Similarly, we believe that the Governing Board must have clear responsibilities and clear mandates, not only as a kind of ‘central intermediary’, but must take responsibility and not excessively transfer decision-making to a higher authority, for example. when budgetary deviations are detected. An overall committee calls on the Ministry to further assess the management of capital in relation to both borrowing and investment decisions. The same applies to the sale of the assets of the hospital company, as a majority asks the ministry to assess. I'm pointing out that an overall committee is in favour of the changes that relate to accounting and auditing. I mention in particular that there seems to be a legal basis for continuing the county's own audit if this is desirable. With the introduction of this law, Health-Norway has been given a new opportunity where the county level determines whether this possibility should be used. Finally, I would like to address the proposal on which the Labour Party and the Socialist Left stand together in the vote and the two proposals on which the Labour Party stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e261	Asmund Kristoffersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e264	The current position is based on NOO 1999: 15, the so-called Sørensen Committee. As the Progress Party sees it, it is high time that a stronger release of our public hospitals is put on the political agenda, and I am very pleased that there is such a proposition for treatment in Odelstinget today. In particular, the Ministry shares the conclusion that all public hospitals should preferably be organised as municipal hospital companies, which the Progress Party cannot agree with, as we are in favour of limited liability companies. A stronger exemption from our public hospitals has been addressed by the Progress Party for the past ten years, without the success of obtaining a majority for this process of thinking until today. Greater autonomy left to the hospital board and director is particularly important at a time when we are going to introduce free hospital choice, where regional health work is being built up, and not least because one has received partial price funding in the hospitals. Lack of capacity in our hospitals with subsequent long queues may also be partly due to outsourcing and heavy-duty organisation and administration, although perhaps the main reason for the lack of capacity is still a lack of resources, which the majority of the population has so far not been willing to grant. Driving public hospitals as has been the case so far, such as public administrative offices based on political spending appropriations and bureaucratic regulation, needs to be replaced by patient and customer involvement and greater freedom for hospitals to organise their operations in order to achieve better results. In this context, it is important, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to clarify the importance of a distinction between the roles of the hospital owner and the producer of hospital services. Hospitals are currently extensive knowledge establishments with a high degree of innovative activities in the light of clinical research and medical-technical developments. This also requires rapid conversions and changes in operating modes, which require short command lines. The old management system that currently applies in our public hospitals has long decision-making processes, where the lines of responsibility are erased and the very form of organisation is de motivating both for managers and employees. It is necessary to enable hospitals to make rapid decisions both in terms of operation and investment, to ensure adequate availability and quality of services and to achieve better and more efficient operation. In this context, I believe it is particularly important that the responsibility between the Executive Director and the Management Board should be clarified, as should the relationship with the owner. And it should also be expected that a public hospital has an organisational form where individual decision-making in the organisation can be made personal responsibility for decisions. The growing public hospital quality requirements of users/patients will become stronger and stronger over time, requiring clearer and more concise responsibilities both administratively and professionally. In the setting up of the Sørensen Committee, there are several possibilities for connection to public hospitals, for greater exemption also for limited liability companies and foundations, even if the selection in its recommendation selects a municipal hospital company. What is proposed and supported by a majority of the Social Committee does not, in the view of the Progress Party, give the necessary exemption that is now imperative to provide our public hospitals with more efficiency and better use of resources. The main objection of the Progress Party to the municipal hospital company is that the company continues to have significant political governance, since the meeting has significant powers to give instructions and to make statutes and provisions for its purposes as instruments of political control. A significant disadvantage, as the Progress Party sees, is that the hospital company is not given the responsibility for collective agreements and also has no opportunity to separate parts of the business from its own companies, which would be both operational, professional and economical. After an overall assessment, the Progress Party has concluded that the proposed hospital company does not provide hospitals with the exemption they need to meet tomorrow’s future requirements for efficient and rational hospital operations. Therefore, the Progress Party is primarily in the setting in order for public hospitals to be transformed into limited liability companies and comply with the Share Act. The county council will also be able to give instruction and adopt the statutes of the limited liability company by means of the Share Act at the general meeting. Although one in Norway has relatively little experience with hospitals operated as an AS, we have two hospitals, Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital and Feiringklinikk, which operate as a company with very good results. In Sweden, a hospital has been holding a share company for several years, and Stockholm's county is planning to turn two major public hospitals in the region into a share company. Lenet found out that this is the most effective way to operate a hospital. In the suspension, the Progress Party is primarily in favour of the public hospitals being converted into a public limited liability company for the reasons given above, but will vote subsidiaryly for the county hospital company, in particular after the change made in different legal paragraphs, which strengthens the hospital company’s free position, changes to the legal text fully supported by the Progress Party. County hospital company is a step in the right direction, but nothing more. On behalf of the Progress Party, I am very pleased that the Workers' Party's fraction in the Social Committee did not receive a majority for its socialist and backward proposals to ban the conversion of public hospitals into a share company. The party of progress is unintelligible to the fears of the Workers' Party, and in part also of the Centre Parties, that it is immoral to make money to run public hospitals. What is really immoral is that we still have about 2000 with the good economy we have. 300,000 people endangering life and health daily, in a health queue, a queue that could have been cut down significantly by improving efficiency and better management of scarce resources in our hospitals. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the vote where the Advance Party is with other parties and the party's own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e302	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e305	Bertrand Russell once said that scientists are working hard to make things impossible, while politicians are trying hard to make it impossible. Those are the words I hope today's debate will show no longer so topical, too much of what was politically impossible in the 1980s and 1990s, at least for parties other than the Right and the Progressive Party, is now beginning to become politically possible. And the issue we have to deal with now, about county hospital companies and the release of hospitals, is just an example of a lot that has happened. What was impossible 10-15 years ago is now becoming reality. In fact, there has been a revolution in the thinking of organising and financing healthcare in recent years. We have gone from what I would call guardianship, governance from above, where one was sure that politicians, civil servants and health professionals were the ones who knew and could, to steering from below, user management we call it, where patients have been much more informed patients, who know and can at least as much, at least about their own disease, as both politicians and health bureaucrats can. So Fy-word has become a yes-word. We have gained more market and more competition, and now also exemption. And the most important amendments are, in fact, far from being initiated in the ministry, but have come as directives from the Storting through the treatment of various health messages and other messages, which now mean that we are taking steps towards a more modern health system, which is governed by criteria that are not as different as those used in other areas of society, as they have been so far. In this regard, I am excited about the new Minister of Health, who has an experience background that has not been common to ministers of health. So we'll see if not the next bastion that stands for fall, becomes the county council, because when even representatives of the center start saying that they're willing to assess it, everything can happen. But unfortunately there's another piece left. It also shows the timing of the day and today's debate. For the Right, it is important to help distinguish roles and place responsibilities. Our alternative model for the organisation and financing of the healthcare system is to have a national overall responsibility for economic and functional sharing, where it is made clear what the Stortinget has to do with, and then it is to be combined with a great degree of freedom for local authorities, as long as they exist, I would have said, and for professional hospital managers, so that, within budgetary, functional and health policy objectives, they will have the greatest freedom to organise and manage hospitals as they themselves find it most sensible. This is in line with what the Sørensen committee agreed to. As you mentioned earlier, it was called the "menu" principle, i.e. the nature of the connection to be chosen must be up to the hospital owner to decide for himself. But the starting point for the exemption – I think it is important to remember when we now hear both fi-words about AS and great scepticism about the real content of the word exemption – must be that central authorities actually have confidence that both hospital owners and hospital managers, no matter what form of association the hospital has, relate to adopted health policy objectives. But it is a little bad to get hold of this trust when both the centre and, in particular, the Workers' Party have such AS-fears. I am in doubt that the Minister of Health is quite comfortable with this AS fear and this ban on public-owned hospitals becoming AS, because it is up to the owner whether an AS should go bankrupt or not. Not so many years ago – at least just after the war – it was to do something about a state AS the safest thing you could do. That's why Jernverket became a state-owned AS, the Koksverket became a state-owned AS, and the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani was. It was really security rather than something to work in a state AS. It is up to the owner to decide whether such an AS should exist or not. The insinuation that because you might have to choose an AS form for a hospital, the world will suddenly look completely different, and you just want to think economy and not that the main business is actually to take care of patients and give them the best possible treatment – to provide the best possible treatment, I think it's theoretical deliberations, which actually show that you have very little experience from the practical reality. And it is on this background that I am somewhat doubtful whether these are the thought paths with which the new health minister feels quite comfortable. I don't think he's going to say anything about it, because he can't, but we're now going to see what reality is like when this happens. Today, we also have a few hospitals in our country, which is AS, the Feiringklinikken and Lovisenberg Diakonale Hospital. Are they only concerned with economics, or are they, in fact, primarily concerned with providing the best possible and best possible healthcare to the patients they are being put to help? Of course, they are primarily concerned with the possibilities of providing patients with the best possible treatment and getting them back to work if they belong to that age category. Do they primarily have financial incentives and economic motives for what they do? No, of course they don't. And how important is it really that the public owns the hospitals? The important thing is that public finances the treatment we should be demanding here in the country. In this way it is interesting that the Workers' Party in its prohibition at least limits the use of the AS form for public-owned hospitals, because it is true that there is nothing against the private-owned hospitals being able to use the AS form. Also, as you know, there is no prohibition on public purchasing services in such hospitals. So what's the most introvert, either the fear of the Workers' Party and SV's AS or the fear of the Center, yes, I certainly don't know that, but it's not good any of the parts, as the Right sees it. For us, as I said, it is important to facilitate that we now have a real responsibility position, that we do not mix the roles that order and carry out. It's important that the public is aware that it's like ordering health care for the inhabitants that we have our main role, and then it gets up to those who are professional in running and managing hospitals to perform the services we order. Then maybe we'll also get less fixed on detailing and picking away everything and everyone, instead of controlling in general and in general. – So hospital release helps to clarify this distinction between the order role and the delivery role. On the basis of the same basic principle that we have to rely on the trust of the authorities to ensure that those who operate hospitals are, in fact, loyal to adopted health policy objectives, the Right does not see any basis for having its own authorisation provision in this law. In this respect, I am pleased that the Workers' Party has also reached the same conclusion, although we also believe that the authorisation provision in the Special Health Service Act goes far too far by allowing central authorities to intervene. An approval paragraph really means a refusal paragraph. You have to reserve the right to refuse to do something or want to do anything. Nor do we see the need to have such a paragraph in addition to ensuring that it is professionally and medically proven that the offer you want to establish is sound. We want a law that provides a clear opportunity for hospitals to operate as the hospital management believes best. We also want to underline this in the purpose section, and we want it to be a real connection to what the Sørensen Committee has agreed to, namely that the individual owner – so far as the county municipalities – should be allowed to decide the form of association they want for their hospitals in the name of democracy and local government. And in these words I then recommend the Right Suggestions, which I take up, whether those we're alone about, or those we're together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e333	Annelise Höegh has then taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e336	The Central Party member of the Storting Social Committee, Ola D. Glötvold, has no seat in Odelstinget, hence this post from me. Law of County Hospital Company is a good piece of political work. When Oslo municipality a few years ago announced its desire to convert Ullevål hospital into a limited company, the central government did not see it as a desirable development. The Sørensen Committee was appointed, the mandate was to come up with measures that could meet the need for alternative forms of organisation for public hospitals. The Sørensen Committee proposed a new organisational model, called a hospital company. The reactions to this model indicate that it is so good that a limited liability company is no longer considered a good alternative to the operation of hospitals. That's what I call a good piece of political work. Law is based on the principle of decentralisation and municipal self-government. This is an important principle for the Center Party. When the laws are adopted, the county and state have six organisational models to choose from. Three of the models are based on the fact that the hospital is not separated as a legal person. These models are the gross budgeted administrative body, the net budgeted administrative body and the county municipal enterprise. The last model is new from the turn of the year, after the municipality has received a new chapter 11. Three models separate the hospital as their own legal entity. The first of these models is the hospital company model, which is the model for which laws are given in today's proposition. The other two models are the limited liability company and the foundation. The centre party is not a fan of organising public hospitals as a share company. We've made that clear in our comments. Nevertheless, we will not support a ban on a limited liability company. There may be a few extreme cases where a local authority finds it advisable to use such a form. The central party believes that the political plurality that has come to power through elections will decide which organisational model to choose for hospitals. We have a basic view that power should be decentralised, and therefore believe that it is the owner of hospitals that – within certain frameworks – should choose the organisational model. This also applies when the county is the hospital owner. I am confident that the county councils of the Senterpartiet in all the county councils will not support a large-scale transformation of public hospitals into a share company. It is worth noting that the Labour Party does not propose a ban on the renunciation of hospitals. If we look at the argument that the Labour Party is leading against the limited companies, in our view, it is inconsistent not to allow this to include the foundations. Otherwise, I am surprised that the Workers' Party, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, is involved in taking out two paragraphs of the bill that would make their own to ensure that the transformation of hospitals into their own legal entity would not weaken the public health service. For the Central Party, it is very important that the state is allowed to correct conditions in hospitals that are contrary to health policy objectives. Therefore, the central government allowed the legislative proposal of the Ministry to require approval of all transformations of public hospitals into own legal entities. This House will take away the Right and the Advance Party, and will therefore receive support from the Labour Party for this. I am sorry that it may seem that the Labour Party no longer wants good control arrangements with the public health service, even though I have registered that they have stated their reasons for this. The conclusion of the centre party is that the central government has put forward a very important law on health policy. With the new organisational model, the hospital company, we have maintained that neither a share company nor a foundation is any longer relevant as organisational models. In the submission to the hospital company law, one has received an organisational model that is suitable for the operation of hospitals. The model has been given the advantages of a limited liability company in the form of exemption and liability for the board of directors and day-to-day tenants. On the other hand, there are drawing insignia that hold the hold for political governance. The law also effectively eliminates the risk of fragmentation of tariffs and the risk of competition for health professionals. Finally, I would like to remind you that an extended menu for selecting organisational models for hospitals is only a small contribution to solving the difficult situation in the hospital sector. There is the atmosphere in the meeting between patients and treats and an organisation that allows professionals to carry out their work according to established goals and better than today, which is important. The biggest contribution will be to resolve the difficult economic situation of county municipalities. Both in the setting of the revised national budget and in the municipal economic proposition, the Senter Party has shown that the party will contribute to increasing the permissions of the county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e360	The regulatory time is about five minutes ago. However, the President will propose that this meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e363	We're discussing today what kind of relief hospitals should be given, and there's full agreement among all the parties that are represented on the Stortinget, and then in Odelstinget, that hospitals should be given a greater degree of relief than today. But the question you have to ask is how far that exemption is going to go. I notice, among other things. the committee chairman’s statement that it may seem immoral to make money in public hospitals, in a line of argument that is based on the formation of a limited liability company, and that the hospitals as such can thus become profitable enterprises. I think that's an interesting consideration. The money that a hospital would then earn, if it is still a hospital operated by the public, must be picked up from a place. And there are funds that either need to be derived from the tax and from public earnings in different ways, but where a very high degree of exemption gives less control over the use of the funds, or from the equity directly financed by the individual and as such becomes direct taxes on health. In any case, one does not exclude that hospitals that are somehow going to operate under public law are operated for funds that we all contribute to paying in one way or another. Even if you want to release the hospitals, it means that you have to keep a certain degree of control of those hospitals through normal, democratic rules of play. That is why, as far as both the Progress Party and the Right are concerned, I believe that they have a somewhat strange approach from a purely democratic perspective, that the longer the period of freedom, the better the operation should be. But it's not that simple. Annelise Höegh expressed in his post – if it was just a delay, I don't know – that there should be a great deal of freedom for local authorities as long as they exist. So if you were to take such a reasoning seriously, it would be a freedom for local authorities as long as we have local authorities, but one day we don't even have local authorities. Then we have a kind of freedom to operate hospitals that means you're completely out of control of the elected people, and there can't be any point. It's clear that in this context it's going to be different if you have ideal foundations, like, for example. LHL, related to the share company model, where profits are returned to the foundation, and then you get a commission from the government that controls the business. This would be quite different from getting pure-bred private enterprises with limited liability companies with a view to making a profit and paying dividends to shareholders. The fact that a public hospital should not be able to go bankrupt makes it clear that even those who are in favour of the share company model will argue for the modification of that model because of course a hospital should not be able to go bankrupt. Or it will, if you think it should be able to do so, have a strong centralising effect at the next moment by losing a number of local hospitals around Norway, because they cannot be operated economically. If there is a thought that underlies the way of argument of the Progress Party and the Right, it should be clearly stated. To date, it has just been the elected bodies that have been involved in determining a hospital structure to have local anchoring. So if this is an easy way to get away from that model, you should be ready in the sense of it. SV therefore agrees to have a greater degree of exemption, but that the elected government should be retained. Therefore, we go against the share company model, because we believe it is completely inappropriate for the operation of public hospitals. As a result, we also oppose the fact that the law on the specialist health service in Section 4-2 wants to remove the wording that includes a limited liability company, but we want to support the same proposal that the Workers' Party has to ban a limited liability company. But because we want to have § 4-2, and the Workers' Party does not want it, we must therefore promote our own § 4-3, which follows from § 4-2. If our proposal falls, and it is very likely that it will, I ask that § 4-3 be subtracted. Instead, we will support the Workers' Party's proposal for § 4-2. With what I have said here, our proposal is also advanced. I believe that the debate on the organisation of hospitals should be so frank that in all parties there is a need for public governance, even if one chooses other governance models than today. So here's a balance line that doesn't express either from the Right or from the Progress Party in their posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e380	Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e383	The current legislative proposal is intended to allow county municipalities to choose between several types of hospital association. The proposed form of organisation, the County Hospital Company, is an alternative that will contribute to a clearer division of responsibilities and roles between hospital owners and hospitals. Hospitals are large and complex organisations that will face ongoing demands for change, both on the basis of new needs and new treatment options. It is then important that the management of hospitals be responsible for and have the necessary powers to implement measures necessary to provide adequate hospital services to all. By making hospitals independent legal and economic units, this relationship of responsibility and authority will be clarified. I also stress that this will facilitate better financial management in the sector. The county hospital company will also be an appropriate form of association because it establishes a good balance between the hospital management’s freedom to take decisions regarding the operation of hospitals and the owner’s, i.e. the need for transparency and control of operations of the county. In other words, the new model will provide clearer roles for the many actors involved. It allows the hospital owner to focus on overall issues related to the framework, priorities and performance requirements and may not be involved in operational issues. The County Council exercises its active ownership through the meeting of the company, which elects the Board of Directors, which, after the new model, is responsible for the satisfactory organisation of the activities of the hospital company. The Management Board is responsible for the operation in accordance with defined purposes, statutes, budgets and other guidelines adopted by the Board of Directors. It shall also ensure that bookkeeping and asset management are subject to prudential supervision and supervision by the hospital. The legislative proposal thus introduces what I want to characterise as normal governance functions and associated responsibilities. This will also help to give the hospital's top management a clearer responsibility by deriving this from the board's decisions with reporting to the board. I see it as an advantage that in this way clear reporting lines are established between management, board and owner. Well, this happens under a general political responsibility, but in my opinion it is a model that does not involve direct political management of the hospitals' operations. I have found that the majority of the committee has drawn an even clearer distinction between the responsibilities of the hospital owner and the board of directors than it was foreseen, in particular with regard to the provisions on the authority of the company meeting and the management of budgetary deviations. The changes that have been made are well in line with the intentions behind the new model, and I think it is positive that in this way it is made clear that the hospital company's management and board have independent responsibility, and that problems that may arise should not be automatically transferred to the owner level. New models themselves don't solve any problems, but they give new opportunities. In accordance with the system of the Local Government Act, each municipality is free to choose whether to put the county hospital company into service. But it is my hope that the county councils will find the model up-to-date, and that experience will gradually be gained with its use. It has been suggested from some teams that public hospitals should be converted into limited liability companies. I am not going to go into all aspects of the issue of the use of the form of public hospitals, and I am recording that there are different recommendations from different parts of the committee. However, I would like to point out that the Share Act, which is specifically developed for business activities and is suitable for that purpose, has as a fundamental principle to limit the liability of the owner. This is undoubtedly an advantage in risky business, but I would be skeptical about transferring such a principle to public hospital operations. I also stress that there is no refusal in this respect that the private hospitals are organised as a share company. But first, public hospital operations are quite different from business activities, which have profits and returns on invested capital as the decisive objectives. And secondly, I think it is very important to crush the principle of unlimited public responsibility for hospital operations. On this basis, I believe that the form of the limited liability company is not the appropriate model for the public hospitals. I repeat that I see the proposal for a new law on county hospital companies as an important step forward in creating clearer roles and responsibilities and better financial management in public hospitals. In this context, I actually believe, unlike Bertrand Russell, that politicians are doing something that is both right, necessary and possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e404	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e407	It is nice to hear the Minister of Health comment about private business and in this context also about county hospital operations. As far as I'm able to understand, it's not the hospital company we're now deciding on, so far away from the AS form. So what's really left is that a hospital shouldn't be operated on a profit basis, and that's what I don't understand correctly. I'm not going to go into it any further now. I'll have a three-minute post later in the debate. But what I could imagine asking the Minister of Health about is why the hospital company should not be responsible for collective agreements. The reasons for this were presented by the representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. It should be because the county council had to deal with the collective agreements, so that no competition was obtained for the association of health professionals. How can you get away from competition? Isn't it just positive that hospitals compete for health professionals? It is precisely competition that makes progress in this area as well. But I would like a more detailed explanation as to why the Minister of Health is against the hospital company being responsible for collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e416	I don't think that the essential argument for maintaining the right to conclude and terminate collective agreements is on the hospital owner's hand, that it should be a fear of competition for personnel, for employees. First, it is such that it is open to delegating this possibility from the owner to the hospital company. However, when one has been careful in this area and has primarily added it to the county council, it has been more of a wish to avoid a fragmentation of the tariff area and tariff agreements. That is what I have also chosen to focus on in the work on a proposition that, as I said, was promoted by the government of Bondevik, and which I chose not to withdraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e421	At the same time as the Social Committee gave the position we are debating today, Prime Minister Stoltenberg gave a speech in Bergen, in which, after the referendums, he suggested to us a significant improvement in the situation of the health services and hospitals in two years, including a significant organisational exemption. Now the Workers' Party has not promoted amendments of significant importance in this position, and I see the health minister's posts as a connection to this proposition, which he has not withdrawn either. What I'm asking is what the Prime Minister has in his sleeve. Or maybe the Health Minister also has it in his sleeve? Does the Prime Minister's speech mean that the law we adopt today is just a transitional arrangement until the really great grip is taken? The Minister of Health used the expression that this was ‘an important step on the road’. Does this mean that the legislative proposal that is being adopted today is only seen as a temporary addendum? And what is it in that case that Prime Minister Stoltenberg refers to when, in his speech, he suggested a significant release of the hospitals, which I cannot see from what the Council of State says here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e430	The proposal under consideration now represents, first and foremost, an opportunity — a legal option — to increase the discharge and clarify the responsibilities of public hospitals. It's true, as they said, that I didn't see any reason to draw such a proposition. I consider it an important step forward and, hopefully, an important step towards realising in practice such clarification of the responsibilities of the sector. The extent to which county councils choose to use the new form of company now remains to be seen. But as I said in my post, I have the hope that that will happen, and in that case, in my view, it will significantly improve the organisational conditions in the hospital sector. I will not go into the details of the other measures to be implemented, but among other things. the organisation, form of association, of state hospitals. Then we get back with the concrete proposals for what should be a more robust organisation of the hospital sector in the future. But I have already said that it will be a combination of economic measures and organisational measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e437	I would like to make it clear that the Right's view of liberation and forms of association is not what you might, indirectly at least, get the impression on some of the speakers, including the Minister of Health, that we are in principle for all hospitals to be AS. We are in principle for hospital owners to have the freedom to choose the form of association they themselves find most appropriate, as a large majority in the Sørensen Committee, including the patient representative, agreed to, but neither the previous government nor the current government follow up. Fortunately, now the Workers' Party and the SV majority do not get a ban on turning public owned hospitals into AS. So I hope the Minister of Health, if he receives an application from the Municipality of Oslo, where a majority may have gone in to do e.g. Aker Hospital turns into an AS, does not reject the application, as he does have the possibility through the approval system provided for by the Special Health Service Act. But that's just what time will show. My question to the Minister of Health, when he himself has also said, is, in many newspaper interviews, that the most important thing is that health services of the highest quality are produced, not who produces them: Is it so important that the public owns most hospitals? Or is it the most important thing that health care is actually produced of the highest quality, whether it is public or private that does it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e444	I would first like to take the opportunity to say that I believe that neither my side nor anyone else here has expressed any AS-fear as such. But I find it difficult to see why it should be so important to introduce a form of company for the public-owned hospitals that have as their basic idea to limit the responsibility of the owner. Because it must be clear that the principle of the Share Act is that the liability of the owner is limited to the capital injected, and that it results from – and must result from it – that these companies can also go bankrupt, not only in theory, but also in practice. But as I said, there's no fear of ASs like that. There has been a revolutionary form of company in the industrial development of all countries. You can't take a distance from that in any way. I was anxious for a moment instead that the representative Höegh recommended that we reorganize the hospitals according to the model of Norsk Jernverk. I don't think that would necessarily be a good idea either, even though the Ironworks were formally an AS. But we have also seen, despite the security she described, examples of state limited liability companies being allowed to go bankrupt, and so it must be when they are first organized under the Share Act. No, I do not think it is essential that the public owns all hospitals – in no way. The most important thing is that everyone is able to meet the needs of hospital services they have in a good way. But I believe that the public must have overall responsibility also for the hospital sector, and as long as the public is also the owner, I believe ownership should be unlimited in terms of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e454	The centre party emphasises the meeting between patients and treats and an organisation that allows individual professionals to make better use of vocational education and training than they do today for the benefit of patients. In one case earlier today, the Minister of Health stressed the need for better organisation. There are some of us with the Minister of Health. Now, Minister of Health Tønne will have three months of experience as a government council. He has had the possibility to have contact with patients, with different health professionals and with hospital owners, both by preparing this case and otherwise. I expect that he has got the impression of both good and less good operation. He has probably met patients who know they were met with respect and professional insight and received treatment far beyond what they expected. He has probably also met those patients who, in the light of their own experience, would like to give advice on better organisation. Where's the shoe most pressing? Is there now the main measure of freedom, or will the Minister of Health also put the search light on the organisation internally in the individual hospital and give advice in relation to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e461	Although the representative Kleppa may admit that I have been given the opportunity to go into more detail about this than I actually have in these three months, I still believe that I have the basis to believe that it is unusually important that the responsibilities in the hospitals become clearer than is the case today. And then I mean first and foremost the responsibilities between the owners, the governing bodies and the hospital management, but then also the responsibilities within the hospitals. But I mean here as in many other areas, that it's important to start at the top. That is why I attach so much importance to the fact that we facilitate clarification – I would like to use the expression "exclusion", but above all a clarification – of the responsibilities at the highest level in the hospital sector. I also use the concept of exemption from time to time, but I'm a little careful with it, because at least it has to be clarified more clearly what you put in it. Exclusion from what? It's not like you can get away from an owner. But it is very important to organise the business in such a way that there is a distance and a clear division of roles between ownership on the one hand and the operator on the other. It is not clear enough to me today. It will open up the proposal under consideration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e468	The Health Minister replied to the representative Are Næss about this, namely that hospital companies were an offer to the county municipalities. I don't know if it was wishful thinking on my part, but the question in that context is what to do if there are county municipalities that don't accept to establish hospitals as state-owned companies, so that we operate with different forms of organization. That's the one question. The second question is that hospital companies do not have the opportunity to separate hospitals from hospitals as separate companies, which is becoming more and more common both in our own country and in other countries, even in public hospitals in Norway. What is the reason why this is not possible, when this is the most appropriate both professionally and economically?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e475	I now got a little hypothetical question, but I'm going to try to give a little hypothetical answer, too, saying that if it should now prove that this does not lead to a transformation of hospitals into county hospitals, and it continues to be a situation that I described in my reply to the representative Kleppa, with unclear responsibilities and unclear role relationships between owners, governing bodies and the administrative directors in the hospital sector, yes, then I do not see that it is possible to exercise overall responsibility for this sector, unless other measures are taken to implement organisational improvements. So on the second question, I am of the opinion that where it is both professionally and economically right to separate parts of the business, there must be access to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e482	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e487	I actually had a comment to the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo. However, he is no longer in the hall, as far as I can see, but I shall say some words anyway. It went on to say that it would be immoral for a public hospital to do its business with profit, because it was the taxpayers’ money that the hospital received as income – a rather incredible set of thoughts in this context. It is clear that any undertaking engaged in production must operate in accordance with commercial principles, namely that it must have met its costs in the first place, and that it must also have a certain cover for reinvestment in operation in the establishment. It should not be impossible or unmistakable that a hospital could also be operated in the same way. In fact, there are hospitals, both in our own country and not least in Sweden, which are operating after a single-cost financing system and provide benefits to owners, who in this case would be the county council in Norway, and who can also use funds to improve pay and staff conditions in their own hospitals. It had to be a wish situation to get into for Norwegian hospitals, and I think that this possibility is present if you just want to take the step fully and do it. So the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo said that such a hospital would be complete without political popular governance. Yeah, that's possible. But until today we have had so-called political popular governance. And what is the situation in the Norwegian health system today? Yes, we have discussed that earlier in this room today. So my motto is: the less political governance, the better it is possible to operate Norwegian hospitals for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e496	Only one clarification, so that the premises of the legal text are clear. The representative of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa indicated that the Workers' Party had not approached the foundation as a form of association. We have not commented on this in the comments, because we considered this to be completely unnecessary as we did not go in for a share company. Foundation is a form of association such as: no one is responsible for the debt of the formation and there are very strong restrictions on the government in governing the management of a formation. The consequences have been taken by proposing to remove the word formation from all the paragraphs of the law on specialist health services, as proposed in this proposition that we are dealing with today. With this our attitude to the foundation as an association of public-owned hospitals should be clearly expressed, and I assume that the representative Meltveit Kleppa's statement was based on the fact that this was not commented on in our comments. I had otherwise hoped that the Center Party would at least go towards formation, but they did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e503	The representative, Asmund Kristoffersen, said in an earlier article that the centre parties and the committee majority have far removed the possibility of saying no to the form of a limited liability company. No, we don't. We have a bill that specifies that any conversion into a limited liability company must be approved in advance by the Ministry and that in assessing whether such approval should be granted, inter alia. shall focus on societal considerations. But this paragraph, together with the Advancement Party and the Right, will delete, and I think that should be my concern for the Workers' Party. They claim that Section 4-1 of the Special Health Service Act covers this. Of course, we can discuss that, but if our proposals for Section 10 of this law are redundant, as Mr Kristoffersen claims, our common concern is also covered by the law in force, namely a social control of the various forms of association, including a limited liability company, which is a form of association that I see will only be applicable in very special cases. It could also be tempting to enter into a discussion with Annelise Höegh on the importance of the distinction between the order and delivery role in the healthcare system. The meaning of this distinction was presented as an eternal and universal truth. Now it is very controversial, and in different countries there are different experiences and different opinions about this. But this is a fundamental part of Right Mythology in this area, so it's probably not the right time to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e510	The president would have hoped it wasn't. The President would like to recall that the agenda for the Odelstinget meeting contains 17 issues and would like the members of the Social Committee to take this into account. But Magnhild Kleppa has asked for the word, and she will receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e513	I'll be short. It was a good clarification from the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen's side. Let me then emphasize again on the point that concerns the view of a corporation, what I said in my post, that we are not followers of organizing public hospitals as a corporation. When we're not included in the prohibition, it doesn't have to do at least with the recommendation that's in the proposition. Citation: ‘However, the Ministry considers that there may be a different approach to the organisation of parts of the hospital’s activities and that, in specific cases, there may be a need to use limited liability companies as a form of ownership for the management of new types of businesses.’ I think that the Workers' Party, which is aware of the way in which the comment is designed internally in the Committee, has interpreted the views of the Centre's management company somewhat in relation to what has been said in the opinion and confirmed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e523	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e537	As the rapporteur, I will briefly explain the vote. The proposal concerns some material changes, some legislative adjustments and clarification of practices, as well as a proposal for amendments to the administrative provisions for the coordination of pension and social security benefits. Finally, the Committee has a further comment on a new matter which we are asking the Government to consider in the context of the 2001 budget. The Committee agrees that when a person is granted a classified disability pension and receives both disability pension and sick pay, the sickness benefit basis shall be determined on the basis of the income basis for his/her professional category. Today, the income base is determined in accordance with the provisions for self-employed persons. This is unnatural when he is actually a worker. The Committee also agrees that persons who receive a contractual pension and who take advantage of the opportunity to combine work and social security from the age of 62 will be able to receive sickness benefits such as other economically active persons, i.e. for one year. Today, these health benefits are paid for 90 days, which was natural when the scheme was introduced and they were compared with age pensioners. The Progress Party will present its additional proposal to provide pensioners with equal time to be sick. The majority of the Committee believes that persons who have now been given the opportunity to withdraw partial AFP scheme from 62 years of age, to a greater extent than age pensioners, will resume work even after longer periods of illness. With regard to the right to take out a retirement pension from the age of 67 and up to the official age limit for a retirement pension in the population, which is 70 years old, the estimates have been very complicated and time consuming for the administration, while they have been difficult to understand for the pensioner. The Committee agrees with the proposal for simplification for this period until the age of 70. The national audit has identified shortcomings in the system of separate registers of employers and employees. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, agrees that a fee mechanism is in place as the current system of periodic penalty payments proves to be an insufficient instrument for employers to register on time. The Committee supports the proposal that the County Social Security Offices and the National Social Security Office for Foreign Affairs be delegated the responsibility for criminal prosecution in cases where incorrect social security benefits are to be called back. The majority of the Committee, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, considers it appropriate to provide a general legal basis for carrying out trials. The current system is not appropriate as the law needs to be amended whenever there is a need to implement a pilot scheme. A practice of 1991 concerning the calculation of survivors' pensions is supported by the Committee. The same applies to the legalisation of current practice of covering more expensive transport operations in the absence of regular services. The Committee also agrees with a clarification in the law that a medical declaration is to be delivered to the employer within 14 days of the time when the employer may require a medical certificate. Finally, it is clarified that people’s fear only provides support for technical aids for disabled pupils and not for learning material. Furthermore, there is a proposal for rehabilitating and rehabilitating benefits to be treated as income from work and recorded as income from retirement. The Committee supports this. The Committee has been consulted by the Norwegian Ortoptisters Association, which deals, inter alia, with: scalability, damage and visual impairment. They ask for the statutory right of reimbursement for orthopaedic treatment. The majority agreed in spring 1999 that these should be authorised. The Committee asks the Government to consider the statutory right of patients to reimbursement in the context of the 2001 State Budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e560	In view of the fact that it is late in the evening and that many things remain, I shall only go through the view of the Progress Party in which it departs from the majority. In addition to those within the AFP area in respect of entitlement to sickness benefit over 90 days, which is governed by the law today, the Progress Party also wishes to have the same rights as those granted under the AFP scheme. In fact, the AFP scheme is, in the view of the Progress Party, a discriminatory scheme, because it only applies in the LO/NHO area. So here it's actually not everyone who has occasion for an AFP arrangement. Furthermore – and therefore I also take up the proposal in the vote – we want the third paragraph of Sections 8 to 51 to be deleted. These are the 90 days for those who have graduated their old age pension. With regard to fees related to failure to notify the employer/employee register, the Progress Party will oppose this. They say that the periodic penalty payment is per person. today, not working properly. Well, we actually believe that it is the huge form field that the state imposes on individual employers, which is the main problem in this case, and does not seem to affect employers. So we'll go against it introducing that kind of fee. Further to what has to do with the general test facility of the People's Rights Act. The Progress Party and the Right agree on a comment in the setting that we will vote against the proposed change in sections 25-13, which deals with a general trial home. We want more extensive experimentation to be presented to Stortinget before this is introduced. That's why we're going against § 25-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e573	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e576	In this overall proposition, we have to deal with, among other things: four changes in the law that I want to mention. The first is the change in the calculation of sick pay for the workers receiving a classified disability pension. The Christian People's Party agrees that the legislation is amended in such a way that the income base for these is determined by the same provision as for other workers. This means that the income base will be consistent with the actual income. The second change that I want to mention is an extension of social benefits with sickness benefits for partially working people with a sub-pension from the AFP scheme. There is reason to believe that far more people will be partially active with a sub-pension from the AFP scheme than with a retirement pension in the population. By setting the social benefit period for sick pay to 90 days for those who have a partial pension from the AFP scheme, many of these will be forced into full AFP pension in the absence of other income after 90 days of sick leave. It's hard to force these into the full AFP pension for a time to then go back to the partial AFP pension. In addition, there is a great chance that some of them will be on full AFP pension. This is not desirable as there is a need for as much work as possible. The Christian People's Party therefore supports this change of rules. The third rule change that I want to mention is the simplified calculation of the age pension of the population's pension between 67 and 70 years. It is important that we constantly look at the possibility of simplifying public Norway. There is too much time spent in public Norway, among other things. routine handling of files. This was one of the reasons why the Bondevik government started the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project. This rule change is a good example of how things can be made simpler. The pension need not be converted at the age of 67 if the final score is fixed for the year in which the pensioner reaches the age of 66. This means little in dollars and cents. The Christian People's Party is positive that the pension is only finally calculated at the age of 70. I would also like to point out that there is a public problem that different benefits to one and the same person are calculated in several instances. This is very inefficient. It is important that you continue and look at which arrangements can be simplified. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to introduce a fee for employers who do not report to the employees' register. The register is used by the social security system, the tax system, the social security system, the social security system, the contribution system and the Central Statistical Office. It is therefore very important that the register is correct. It is positive that time-limits for work will be automatically deleted hereafter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e595	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e609	No one has asked for the floor. However, there is a proposal in the vote. Is there anyone who wants to put forward the proposal – Grethe G. Fossum?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e614	I thank you for the reminder and will promote the proposal of the Workers' Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e619	Grethe G. Fossum has then taken up the suggestion she has referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 636]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e635	We have come into the same situation here – Grethe G. Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e638	I will be able to support the motion put forward by the Labour Party and the Socialist Left in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e643	Grethe G. Fossum has then taken up the proposal to which she referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 637]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e659	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e673	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e680	Tonight, we are taking some important steps to improve our children’s growing-up conditions and to increase equality in this country. The law changes we decide on make it more possible for a father to be home with his children after a birth or an adoption. We believe that the Labour Party will help to make growth even better for even more children. The change also gives danger the right on a self-contained basis to claim birth and adoption allowances. The equality goes this time in father's favor. The consequence of this equality may also be that the mother's gender equality in the labour market is increasing, and so the whole family reform benefits. The change for families where mother is ill may be even more important. It will improve the situation for families who are the victims of disease, monthly. Especially that part of the reform is incapacitated in my opinion. Saga's been dealt with in the fastest team in this house. It's clear to us – despite the resistance it's possible to understand. But for the first time, it's probably not the last time we have any questions about birth and adoption money for handling, and so we can come back to things later if it turns out that we haven't been able to get the full picture of the consequences in a few days. And second, we can now see eager new-baked fathers in the eye of the coming six months knowing that we got through the changes in the law as we had promised in the budget. After handling this matter in bulging and laying, the father will receive birth money based on his own ignition and position, subject to certain conditions. These conditions are that mother after birth go to work takes full-time public-approved education and training in combination with work, which in total gives full-time because of illness or injury is entirely dependent on help to care for the child is admitted to a health institution and cannot care for the child If mother works part-time after birth, the birth allowance until father reduced the corresponding reduction in her working time. This applies only if work and/or training is less than 75 pst. position. The working party is of the opinion that this change in law improves the situation of many children and parents, as I said in the introduction. We also believe that it is reasonable to make demands for care to some extent, as has been done in the proposition. An alternative in the future may be that mother and father tidy up each of their part of birth and adoption money, and that they can then have this right independently of each other. The birth rate continues in the old way, based on her mother's right to set things straight. On the other hand, the exact same strict requirements for actual care needs are not met. I want to predict that these are questions we will come back to Stortinget. Changing this now costs more money than what's in the proposition. There's also no part of the budgetary agreement between us and the centre party, as we assess it. Finally, I would like to mention that in this round no suggestions have been made to shorten the one-time benefit, but that it is not opened for low-income fathers to choose to receive one-time benefit instead of running birth money. It is opened for the defrosting of protective duties to give ignition to birth and adoption money on a line of professional activity. So here's one of the things about all of the groups. It is with pleasure that I urge Odelstinget to support the proposed proposal and setting. All parties, except the Advance Party, support the main action. The other parts will do their own thing for suggestions they have in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e717	The Progress Party puts a little on the sideline in relation to the vote and the proposals that have been promoted from other parties, simply because – as is evident from our remarks and our proposal – we have a system of our own. We want primarily to bring together all the transfers to the families of children regardless of what they are – birth funds, child care funds, or cash support, whatever – that they are to be transferred directly through child welfare, so that we achieve equality and justice in all transfers to the families of children, regardless of whether you have large or small incomes. But if the proposition we're dealing with now, I would say briefly that it's at least a step in the right direction when it comes to achieving more justice in relation to the allocation of the resources to be transferred. In particular, I am glad that from 1 July, too, opportunities for people with disabilities and injuries will be opened up, and that are so lucky to have a child, and that may depend on a double care over time. I would like to ask – perhaps the Council of State will answer me – whether there is a possibility already today to apply for a derogation in this way. Otherwise, I could imagine that in that particular area, it could have had retroactive effect in a year or so. There are not so many cases. Still, I have to be allowed to say, we have the preservation of a system that increases the differences between them with one income and those with two incomes. It continues to be a priority for families with two incomes and thus automatically higher incomes. Still, there is a system that is very complicated, and that consists of a lot of bureaucracy to get some money back to the families of children. Our system in this context is based on a system that exists and works, and with little bureaucracy: child-restraint transfer, which in turn would have given children's families greater freedom of choice compared to when they wanted to take out leave, when they both wanted to take out leave – they would have a great deal of flexibility in relation to it. Many people have questioned our system, whether it would result in significant restrictions on those who have high incomes and go into such a leave. We're going to be completely honest and say that of course it will lead to a decrease in payments for those who have the highest income today, and an increase in income for those who have lower incomes today. But it's a distribution policy that I actually remember to hear that many of the other parties have been involved in other areas. In particular, I think the Socialist Left Party and the Workers' Party have been good at using that argument in terms of the correct distribution and distribution policy. But here they're doing the opposite. When we now signal that we are in favour of the vote, I would like to make it very clear that it is a subsidiary position of the Progress Party. We have proposed a proposal to be submitted to the Stortinget. I'm assuming it doesn't get a majority. That is why, once again, I really want to make it clear that this is going to be a subsidiary position of the Progress Party, and then from what I said in the beginning, that there are some steps in the right direction. In particular, I think it is a little important that it is important for my father to take more part in the care of the children – I also think that is an important principle in relation to the proposition. In this way, I have signaled subsidiary support. I could also have intended to have gone to the step of supporting the proposal from the old center parties, because I see that they are going another step further than prioritising father in the care image. Unfortunately, for some propositions, we get very little coverage time. It's clear that it's a little irresponsible in that we don't know the consequences, either economically or legally, of making such changes over the table like what we're doing now. And it is regrettable especially for the centre parties, because I see that the proposals they have made would have been given majority voting, with subsidiary support both from the Progress Party and from the Right, in the case. It is clear that in the direction that the Workers' Party has previously clarified, and it is strange that the Workers' Party does not support the centre of the proposals that lie there. Finally, I would like to promote the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e734	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e737	It's a happy thing we're handling today. Fathers shall be granted the independent right of enrolment for birth and adoption benefits, where, after birth or after adoption, their mother goes to work, takes full-time education or takes training in combination with work, which in sum gives full-time work. The Christian People's Party wants fathers to have more time with their children. Then it's important to make practical arrangements for it. In the current year’s draft budget, the central government proposes to give fathers the right to birth and adoption money, based on their own ignition and job breaks when their mother goes into work or education after birth. This implies that there is a need for care for the risk to be discharged of its right to maternity pay. It was proposed that fathers should be granted independent birth and adoption money as of 1 July 2000, and that a proposal for necessary legislative changes would be made. In the meantime, we have had a change of government, and only today are we dealing with this motion for a resolution. Even if the matter came to Stortinget late, it was important to have it handled before the summer so that the laws can come into force from 1 July, as it was promised. The current legislation has turned out unlucky in situations where a mother who has not lit up birth money after birth wants to go to work or start or resume full-time education. In these situations, there is a need for care, but a working father is not entitled to maternity benefits. The law has also turned out unluckily if a mother who has lit up the right to part-time birth money wants to go out to full-time after birth. In this situation, there is also a full-time need for care, but a full-time working father will only receive reduced birth money if he chooses to be at home with the child. The proposal adopted today that father receive birth funds based on his own ignition when his mother goes into work or education after birth will include a part of the fathers who are currently outside the legislation, while at the same time implying that his father’s right will be tied to a real need for care. Nevertheless, his father's right will still be dependent on his mother's adaptations after birth. If mother does not want to or does not have the right to go to work or education, father will not have the right to withdraw birth money, and if mother works part-time after birth, father will in principle have reduced birth money if the post equals less than 75 pst. of full working hours. When mother works at least 75 pst. job, father receives birth money based on his own job breaks. It is positive that this is being agreed today. Especially for those who are students, this has been a long-term measure. During the budget management in Stortinget, the Labour Party strongly criticised the conditions imposed on the federal courts to link up with their mother’s work situation. But we've noticed that the Labour Party in government doesn't have the same critical objections. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV suggest in the setting that fathers who are obliged to liquidate a four-week spring quota, during this period may get birth money based on their own job breaks. They would thus be able to say full pay, regardless of their mother's job break before and after birth. This could be better for some fathers to make use of the feather quota, and it would simplify the legislation by not having to take care of their mother’s working time when it relates to the liquidation of the feather quota. This is a proposal the central government would have made in the bill proposal, which it didn't get before the government change. The proposal has not received a multiple in configuration, and it is disappointing. We had hoped that the Workers' Party would be on the proposal, especially when looking back at the opposition policy the party was leading in this area. The Centre Party and the SV’s proposal would have been able to grant to all fathers an independent right of indifference to birth and adoption money, regardless of their mother’s professional activity, when they liquidate the four-week spring quota. It is a good investment to give fathers the best possible contact with their children at the early stages of their growth. It will delight both mother, father and child.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e763	Does Molvær Grimstad want to make a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e766	I would like to raise a point of order. 1 in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e771	The representative of Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e774	The right is pleased that the proposal on the right to self-sufficiency in birth and adoption benefits for fathers is now becoming a reality. This is a matter for which the Right has worked for a long time, and we are very pleased that in the budget for the current year there was a majority for their own right of access for fathers. However, when I cannot release the cheer completely today, it is due to the extremely short treatment period that Stortinget has received in this matter. The assumption was that it was introduced as of 1 July 2000. For those who have planned to do so, it is important that we implement the scheme now. We have noticed, however, that the Swedish Government has pointed out that it will be difficult to get the payment system in place until 1 July. It is also serious that for time reasons it has not been possible to carry out consultations in the Committee in this matter. In a comment, the right party pointed out that the case was submitted under very severe time pressure and without the possibility of consultation in the committee – the case was referred to in Stortinget on 30 May – and we find this form of proceedings to be unsatisfactory. On this basis, the right will signal that we have taken note of the proposal of the former government parties and SV. We will not now decide on the proposal, but will come back to it at the 2001 budgetary procedure or on other occasions. I must probably modify Per Sandberg's advance notice on subsidiary support for the proposal from the centre and SV something. As I said, we have not taken a position on the proposal. It is very good for the former government parties to submit a proposal to the Stortinget, a proposal that they have with them from the government offices. We don't have the tradition in the Right to jump on suggestions in one direction or the other on such short notice. It is in so far as a criticism also by the Government, who has, of course, worked under heavy time pressure, but who could have tried to bring this matter forward a little earlier, so that it would have been possible to decide on a real basis. As I said, we'll get back to it. That is why we are supporting the proposal today. But we haven't written down that we're going to go into the proposal that's been put forward. It seems that there might be a suggestion that it's also interesting for the Right to go into. However, we need to look at the costs of extending the right to work and the principles related to the size of the vacancy that mother needs to have in order for father to be entitled to his own earnings. Let me nevertheless say: this proposal is a happy step in the right direction in relation to gender equality. The proposal will make it easier for fathers to contribute to child rearing and education, while improving the economic situation of many families with children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e789	The centre party is very satisfied that, after the decision today, fathers shall have the possibility of birth or adoption money based on their own ignition. We want to stimulate schemes where fathers take leave and thus in practice share the important responsibility of giving a new family member as good a start as advice. Of course, even today the fathers are entitled to birth money after the legislation. However, the Court of First Instance is so-called ‘derivative’. This means that both mother and father must have acquired the right to maternity benefits through professional activity. Thus, a working father will not be entitled to birth money in situations where his mother has been a student or a homeworker before birth. Thus, the current legislation turns out unluckily in situations where a mother who, before birth, was a home-worker, wants to go out to work or take education after birth. The law also turns out unlucky if a mother who has lit up birth money in a part-time job wants to go out to full-time after birth. In that situation, a father will only be entitled to reduced birth money if he chooses to be home with the child. We will support the proposal that fathers receive birth and adoption money based on their own ignition in situations where, after birth or adoption, mother goes to work, takes education or combines work and education. It is in line with the initiative that the central government took, which was to be implemented according to our plan from 1 July. However, we are surprised at the lack of understanding shown by the Workers' Party when they claim 75 pst here. of a full-time job for mother and otherwise father reduces his birth money when mother goes into a part-time job. It goes without saying that it won't make it easier for fathers to use the spring allowance in cases where their mother has less job breaks than 75 pst. That's what many women have for a period of time. We see it as important that there are no financial obstacles in the way of wanting to motivate more fathers to benefit from the possibility of papacy. We want fathers to get birth money based on their own job breaks when they take out the birth quota. For the first time, it would be better for some fathers to be able to benefit from the spring quota, while simplifying the legislation by not having to take into account the working time of their mother when it comes to withdrawals from the parental quota. We're looking at the next round with tension, because we understand that this is some of the parts that are in the combo box.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e805	When both the SV, the women's movement, several parties and more and more men have been concerned that fathers should have a maritime right to earn birth and adoption money, it has been primarily because fathers' right and duty to participate in the care of a new, young child, have been given time to get in touch with a new family member, has been seen as a separate value. And it's not least been an equal opportunities policy instrument. In a recent debate on the role of women at the New York Conference on Gender Equality, the Minister of Gender said that the introduction of the father quota has been one of the most important instruments of equality policy in recent years, and I fully agree with that. We have been several who in recent years have stated that fathers must have independent income rights, and we saw the proposal that the then state council Valgerd Svarstad Haugland came with before Christmas, as a step in the right direction. The proposal that the Labour Party government is making now is somewhat disappointing – or as Trond Helleland said, we can't let the cheer go completely, because my father's maritime rights are being made depending on my mother's job break before birth. In other words, the road to maritime service for fathers, so that mother and father are equalised, there is a piece left on. However, I will give the Council of State the honour to ensure that the situation of students and the situation of seriously ill mothers and their children are now taken care of by the proposal available here. SV is in agreement with the centre parties on a proposal that the father's right to birth allowance during the time his father takes out the father's birth allowance shall be independent of the mother's situation prior to birth. But we want to equate mother and father, and that a working father's right should be independent of mother's dispositions both before and after birth. In practice, for most countries, the quota period will apply. SV believes it is a weakness that the father’s rights are linked to the post-birth break of the mother, because the possibility of being home with a new family member must be justified by the needs of the father and the right to be a full care provider, not just a reserve, which I believe this proposal signals – and of course based on the child’s right to have a father home for a while. This right must be made economically possible for all working fathers. I refer to the Equal Opportunities Council hearing opinion on the NOU which came in 1995, which was called 'Dappa came home', where they, among others, say about housework and care: ‘One of the main instruments of equality policy has therefore been to involve men in this work.’ Many men will probably feel that such a scheme maintains the role of father as a reserve or a helper and not as a full care provider.’ This is SV fully in agreement with the Equality Council in, and we believe that the Government's claim that mother should work 75 pst. Both before and after birth, if she then does not study, is unreasonable and excludes several fathers, because there are many women working part-time, even in job breaks below 75 pst. So here I am talking about my father's options for sea-going service based on his own job break. On behalf of SV I would like to mention proposal No. 3, which has been included in the setting, and will at the same time signal that SV will vote against § 14-9 seventh paragraph, first and second sentence and § 14-18 fifth paragraph, first and second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e831	Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e834	I am very pleased that the Storting will now adopt changes to the People's Security Act that will enable fathers to get birth and adoption money based on their own earnings. For many years a majority in this Chamber has agreed that fathers' rights should be strengthened, but it has taken time to grant the necessary money. I must also regret that the Stortinget has received the matter late for treatment, but this is as soon as the government has managed to present this matter after the government change. I would also like to say that I share Mr Sandberg's view that it is very positive that Dad is now taking more part in the care of his children. The proposal currently under consideration involves a limited autonomy of fathers. Father's right will depend on mother's adjustments after birth. The government has proposed that there should be a real need for care if he is to be able to take out his rights. The amendment implies that the rights of father are exercised if, after delivery, mother goes to work, takes full-time officially approved education, takes a combination of education and work which, in sum, gives full-time, because of illness or injury, is entirely dependent on assistance to care for the child or is admitted to a health institution and cannot take care of the child himself. The proposed amendments mean that several groups currently excluded will be covered by the maternity and adoption benefit scheme. I am thinking in particular of families where father is active and mother is under education. For several years the Ministry has received enquiries from this particular group. In addition, I think it is important that my father, regardless of whether your mother has earned the right, receives his own birth grant rights when there is a need for care because my mother is ill after birth. I also think it is gratifying that the termination of the duty of protection should provide the right to benefit from the birth and adoption allowance. To date, this group has fallen out of the scheme, because they have not been considered to be economically active. I think it is reasonable that the service of a statutory social obligation should give entitlement to birth and adoption benefits, in particular because in many cases young men and women are prevented from providing ordinary gainful employment which would have given them the right to benefit. Father's right will of course also be triggered when mother goes into work after birth. However, if mother works part-time, father’s birth allowance shall be reduced accordingly to the reduction in mother’s working time. The reason for this is that there is no full need for care when mother works part-time. However, a certain degree of double care has been provided: if the part of the mother’s position is at least 75 pst. for full working hours, father shall receive birth grants based on his own employment. This is in line with the proposal of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection of the Committee on the Environment, Public The Christian People's Party has noted that fathers in general will not be entitled to birth allowances based on their own position size upon withdrawal of the parental quota in the maternity allowance scheme, and that this means that the proposed legislative amendment will not make it easier for father to use the parental quota in cases where mother has worked less than 75 pst. size of the position. I fully agree that it would mean an improvement in the scheme if the father, who is obliged to take out four weeks of the social security period, had received birth or adoption benefits for these four weeks based on his own job part, regardless of his mother's position. However, the government has not found room for such a change in this round, nor did the Bondevik government. But as we know, times have changed, and we have followed up what the Workers' Party agreed with the Center Parties. As far as I am aware, this proposal was introduced to the committee's consideration of the vote. Of course, you're in full entitlement to that, but we couldn't give our consent to it in this round. The proposal is based mainly on the current provisions on the spring quota and there will still be a requirement for mother to work at least half the position before birth, so that father does not lose too much economically to take out the spring quota. In cases where mother has worked part-time, father will be able to compress the spring quota so that he can charge full birth money over a shorter period. If mother has worked at least 75 pst. However, prenatal position will allow father to receive full birth grant. This implies an improvement in relation to the provisions in force. So it's just in situations where mother before birth has worked between 50 and 75 pst. the position that the father will receive reduced birth grant when he withdraws the birth allowance. As the whole of eight out of ten fathers that come under the scheme today are using the spring quota, it indicates that the current provisions are working well. I would like to end by saying that, although the proposal does not imply full equality between mother and father in relation to the right to birth grant, I think we are taking a big and important step in the right direction. And on Per Sandberg's question, I'm going to answer that I probably don't think that through this bill, we're going to go into a system where we get a retrospective force in one-two years. But I am concerned that we will continuously assess the necessary improvements to the law in this field as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e860	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e863	In many ways this is a joyous day for the families of young children, and especially for the fathers. Father is now entitled to maternity and adoption benefits based on his own earnings in situations where, after birth or after adoption, his mother goes to work, takes full-time education or combines education and work. It's good, and it's time. But it's a cut in joy. When I take the floor in the debate, it is to express great disappointment that there will be no improvement in the time when fathers are obliged to withdraw maternity leave, namely the father quota. During these up to four weeks, the risk shall remain dependent on the acquired rights of the mother. This is bad family policy, and it is bad gender policy. One of the most important things in family and gender policy is to increase fathers' involvement in child care – here I think the representative Valle had a lot of good points in his speech. It's important that this happens from the beginning. That's why the feather ratio is a perfectly right tool. Then it feels very unfair for fathers to be imposed four weeks, and not have their own rights. This will not make it easier for fathers to use the feather quota, and it does not increase the motivation. I must say that after this debate I do not understand what is the Labour Party line. Especially family friendly, at least it's not. The Christian People's Party will continue to make proposals to grant fathers the right to birth money in proportion to their own job breaks. It is important in the interests of children and in the interests of fathers' participation in child care. Once in the future, perhaps the father's quota can be extended to further increase fathers' involvement in childcare, and then father cannot be dependent on mother's rights. It is a very forward-looking proposal Christian People's Party, the Center Party and SV today promote. I do not understand that the Workers' Party is opposed. That's why there's a crack in the evening. I am not able to rejoice that the Workers' Party is again on the defensive of family and gender policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e878	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 638]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e892	Ot. pp. No 64 for 1999–2000 submitted to the Stortinget by main pricing arrangements per year. On 1 May 2000, where the Riksmeklingsmann's meeting book includes the submission of a bill to the Stortinget that removes the so-called break point in the first paragraph of Section 14 of the National Pension Fund Act. The Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has, in its vote, acceded to the Government's proposal. The right-wing members have proposed that public pension schemes be converted from gross to net schemes, so that any changes in social security become relevant to all. The members of the SV announce that they will come back with proposals for major changes in the pension scheme when the Government provides a broad review of this in spring 2001. The proposal in Ot.prp. No 64 involves a whole new practice. It is the first time that a change in break point shall not apply to all, both employed and retired. This will lead to major changes for those who become pensioners in the State Pension Fund after 1 June of this year, changes that they have not foreseen and that have to come as Christmas Eve on the crutch, as it is called in the saying. An employee who is a member of the State Pension Fund who retires on 30 April, with the same length of service and earnings as one who is retired one month later, may receive a significantly lower pension. In the case of full earnings and a salary equal to 12 g or more, the difference will be up to NOK 85 000 per year. years. On the basis of the proposition, this amendment of the law will lead to discrimination which is an entirely new practice. Both the Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Defence Pensioners' Association have today addressed the Stortinget with objections to this type of proceedings, and it is not surprising that the Norwegian Pensioners' Association finds it unacceptable that the pensioners' organisations have not been given the opportunity to comment on the matter before it was submitted to the Stortinget. Introducing this kind of change without a case-by-case investigation, with the scarce information provided by the proposition, based only on the settlement of income, is irresponsible and irreprehensible proceedings, which the Progress Party will not contribute to. We have therefore asked that the matter be sent back to the department, so that the Stortinget to the autumn can re-examine the matter with a better decision-making basis. This proposal is not endorsed by the majority, and I would therefore ask the Government to look into the consequences of excluding pensioners from being subject to this amendment and to return to Stortingen to the harvest, as the amendment of the law itself does not exclude the pensioners in the state. Including the pensioners in this amendment, as has always been done before, will not increase the expenditure of the pension scheme overall, but some of the expenditure will be incurred in the past, as old pensioners fall from and new to come. If, in the course of the debate, the Council of State indicates that this can be done, the Advance Party will support the suspension. If there is no willingness for such clarification, the Progress Party will vote against the suspension. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e911	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e914	I will not make it a habit to criticise the procedure, but in this case there is at least every reason to criticize it. The case was referred to the Stortinget on 6 June and was due to be issued on 8 June, which the Committee was able to postpone until 9 June. The proposed amendment of the law comes as a result of the year's tariff settlement, where it is established that a legislative amendment is to be submitted that removes the so-called break point in Section 14, first paragraph, of the State Pension Fund Act. The Norwegian Pensioners' Association and the Defence Pensioners' Association have both responded to the handling of this case, and there is reason to ask the Council of State why they have not had the opportunity to comment at all. In response to questions from the State Council of the Committee on the possibility of a suspension of the case due to limited time limits, the Committee received a cash reply that the whole of the procedure would be in danger if the case were not dealt with immediately. It must be emphasised, which should be unnecessary, that it is the Storting, not the Government, and not at all the Riksmeklingsmann, who is the legislature in this country. With the kind of legal process we are invited to, or rather instructed on, it is reasonable that relevant organisations react strongly. It would have been natural, in the light of the Council's response, if the responsible state council had been present in the hall tonight. I think there must be reason to ask if a proper procedure would not have been possible all the time for the amendment of the law to be retroactive from 1 May. However, the right does not want to go against the proposed change, but has registered that different pensioners’ organisations have responded that the amendment will only apply to new pensioners. Can the Council of State give an answer as to why a deferral of treatment to the harvest is not possible, all the time during which the change is to be applied retroactively? In its comments, the right-wing party notes that, in the context of the treatment of the law on occupational retirement provision in spring, it was unanimously agreed that the Government's proposal on break points below 12 G was rejected. It is therefore understandable that, based on justice considerations for members of the State Pension Fund, they also want to liquidate the break points here. But there is also reason to remember that when the Government is concerned with equality between private and public occupational pensions, it should apply to both ways. There is reason to recall that the government of Bondevik, Ot.prp. No 47 for 1998-99 underlined the following: ‘The Ministry considers that any changes in public security should have an impact on everyone.’ The reason was that this is not the case in the gross scheme, which is among other things. in the State Pension Fund. In contrast to private collective occupational pensions, these are designed to compensate for any changes in social security. This is an injustice that the Government should also do something about, even though the bulk of the population in the Inner East. O. No 50 for 1999-2000 chose to kill this ball. The right considers that the Storting must now address this challenge and promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to transform the public occupational pension schemes into net schemes so that any changes in public security affect everyone’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e937	Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e940	There has been stronger criticism of the speed of this matter than in the previous one. On the other hand, there is a good reason why we do this quickly, because this is a result of wage negotiations that were concluded quite recently, and that had some elements that the Storting had to deal with. It may be that the system of wage negotiations is wrong, and that it comes at the wrong time, but when the system is like that, it was actually the only way to do it, even if I see it going fast. This isn't about a retirement stopper, it's about a paycheck for government employees. The claim that this is a new practice, as was said by the case-speaker, does not work. It is not so rare that different agreements that come into effect either in one or the other statement require changes that have to be decided in this house. That is the case today, and therefore we are dealing with this motion for a resolution now. The background to the draft law was that in the main resolution of 1 May, there was a demand from all the main associations and Norwegian Teachers teams that the breaking point of 8 times the basic amount of the people's rights had to be removed, so that income up to 12 times the basic amount could be pensionable. Since the service pension scheme is not a legal negotiable item, it had to be up here. The central association of municipalities has long wanted to remove the break point and has for several years been included in the collective agreement between the parties, but this is not effective, due to the coordination rules between the state and the municipality. It will be very important for both the State and the municipality to be able to offer the same conditions as the employers and municipalities compete with for the labour force. With developments, it will be important that we, as employers, as employers, do not fall short of pay and working conditions, which may have much to say in order to recruit and maintain the necessary labour. Many in this room are aware that it has been a difficult paycheck, and it has focused a lot on people with higher education. There will be many of those who are covered by this. So the statement that it increases the differences again, I can understand. On the other hand, it is likely that there are hardly any lecturers or teachers who are destroying the distribution policy in this country. There are probably groups of far higher incomes that make. And change in breaking point won't affect the payouts from the people's fears. In fact, if we had refused to deal with this matter, it might have been that some of the people who had said yes on the condition that this was agreed had said that we would require new negotiations. And then I actually think we'd be worse off than we are today. It is clear that things went a little fast, but it has been a good setting, which I hope can help the government as an employer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e956	I will first be allowed to clarify – because at least the last representative here is presented as a result of the tariff settlement: the reason we have had so little time to deal with this, and the reason why the matter is on the table today, is said, is the tariff settlement – that is not correct. The only thing that has been agreed between employee organisations and employers is that a proposal should be made. There is nothing about consensus here when this is to be promoted, whether this should be from 1 May, and that this should be dealt with and adopted before the Stortinge takes a summer holiday. It's important to clarify, I think. The second is on the letter of reply that we received from the Kosmo Council of State. The question put by the Committee in the form of a letter was simply whether it was possible to postpone the examination of this matter. Then I think it is fundamentally serious when the answer from Kosmo State Council has a content of threat. Because it must be allowed to go as far as to call this a threat letter from the department to the Stortinget. Where the Council of State, acting in the form of a letter to the Committee, states: ‘As stated above, the entire set-up of tariffs in the public sector could be jeopardised if the size decides not to deal with the proposition now. The consequences of this will be difficult to understand.’ I think it is very serious when we have come into a situation where the social partners are being instructed about the Norwegian big business. And that's what's happening here. And I see that the vast majority of the Grand Council is also flat in relation to the Council of State's letter. It's a little disappointing, but perhaps indicative, that the right is also doing the same thing. But it's very disappointing that no right here can stand with the Progress Party to show that at least some parties in this house want to oppose an instruction of the type that comes from the Council here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e968	It falls in my weight to be the Council of Kosmo today, and it is not that easy. But I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that have come. First, I would like to refer to what Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt said, because it actually described the background of the matter well. I understand that the other representatives too are well aware that this was a proposal that emerged during the negotiations, and that the parties agreed that the Ministry of Labour and Administration should submit a bill to the Stortinget. And it's true, as the representative Sandberg says, that there's nothing more in what the Ministry of Labour and Administration has committed to through the agreement than to present it to the Stortinget. However, it is a reality that, as part of the settlement process, the parties – those now in favour – expect this to be adopted by the Storing. And at the moment that it's not made clear, it's putting the settlement in jeopardy. And there's nothing more than that councillor Kosmo has said in his letter. I hear that the representative Sandberg describes it as a threat, but it would be equally serious if the Council of State did not reveal the real danger of not following up what was the wish and condition of the agreement that was concluded. Of course, the Stortinge is free not to adopt the proposal, but the consequence of this may be that the proposal does not get the majority of the vote that you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e975	I regret to note that the Council of State has not responded positively to the invitation of the Advance Party in connection with this matter, but is still running it this evening. Therefore, the Progress Party will maintain its proposal and vote against the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e980	First I have to say that it is highly critical of the Government not to have the responsible State Council present under a case of this type! I'm not sure if it's a criticism that needs to be directed at the Presidentship of the Stortinge or the Government, but I'm correcting it. The matter is important, because the Council of State in the letter stresses that if the Storting does not decide to do so, the settlement of tariffs will not go through. Then I have to say that it is at least to make the tariff settlement quite deplorable. I don't think the Council of State is doing that, and then there's only one possible interpretation, and that's that you take the delinquency treatment. It is highly critical, especially when the meeting state council cannot answer questions about the matter. In fact, the Council of State said, and it was not marked by any dazzling clarity, that it was ‘the desire and the premise of the parties’ that this was adopted. Was it the wish or assumption of the parties? That's two different things. That's as much as you can want, but the parties' assumption is different. Secondly, a timely question was asked, which I understand was also asked during the committee's proceedings, among others. by the Right – it is evident from the letter attached – about the kind of time requirement you have. This is something which will nevertheless be undertaken pending the treatment of the Storting. Then my question is, how long does the parties or the Council of State accept? Is there anything here that we don't know? Or is it a prerequisite in this case that the waiting time is particularly short? I am well aware of the fact that the matter is being referred to the Committee on Tuesday and that it is being given a Friday to the exceptions. The type of procedure is largely reserved for matters such as forced pay. Forced payroll is used when life and health are at stake. That is when the procedure is justified. I have to say that the Council of State should make better responses in the Storting than what has so far been done on behalf of Mr. Kosmo. The state council said it was hard to be Kosmo. I get that. I guess it was meant to be some kind of substatement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e992	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1006	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1015	As rapporteur for the Ot.prp setting. No 28 for 1999-2000 I will begin with some commendable remarks. The Bondevik Government must be commended for presenting a comprehensive and well-worked proposition on sexual offences that contained important and necessary choices for attitudes and criminal responses in our time. With quite a few exceptions, the proposal of the Bondevik Government is widely endorsed by a large majority today. On some points, the committee goes beyond the proposition, and I think it is right to say that the calls for liberalisation in the area of sexual law have been answered with a well-founded and resounding no! Then I will give a large yellow rose to the government of Stoltenberg for not having withdrawn the proposal of the Bondevik government. And finally, I want to commend the entire Committee for thorough, targeted and constructive cooperation in order to provide society and justice with the answers and tools needed to provide security, mutual respect between the sexes and the necessary responses to correction. I also want to give a summary of what it is today's setting says. The main objective has been to strengthen the protection of women and children from sexual abuse. We will achieve that by: the fact that, in serious negligence, criminalised by the courts, the entire criminal framework has to implement the legal protection of the victims has been improved, and that, if we strongly stress the criminal liability of over-employeeship, that is to say that abuse and exploitation of the position, trust and dependence have been criminally criminalised, the definition of the union of children under 14 years of age has been considered to be expanded, as recommended by the Committee on the Discrimination of Women, carried out in a particularly painful or injudicious manner or by several in common, qualifies for the law's strictest criminal punishment to the Judicial Committee in the context of the annual government budgets, information on the status and statistics of rapes in all the police districts of women is better ensured against in judicial proceedings in connection with criminal proceedings in connection with criminal proceedings in connection with criminal proceedings against children under the age of 18 years of age, or in criminal proceedings involving criminal proceedings involving criminal offences involving criminal offences involving criminal offences involving the provision of children, is always to be taken into consideration in the context of It'll probably never be possible to guard 100 pst. against abuses and infringements of fellow human beings. But it is and will continue to be a necessary part of education and learning that the individual's freedom and rights cannot go beyond where they are opposed to the integrity of the fellowman; against the corresponding freedom of my neighbour and the right to be respected. The setting we are agreeing to today gives Odelstinget, and then Stortinget, a clear message. It's a clear message to all of us that no human being is someone's property that a person can freely do with as a will, desires or has power to. In particular, I address my own sex, because we are boys and men who, in most cases, are the perpetrators. But the setting is also a way to turn the table in front of the courts. The Judicial Committee has repeatedly pointed out, in various contexts, that the legislator’s intention to comply with the criminal penalties for crimes is rarely met when the court dismissed. It may not be true that sexual crimes are evenly superior to a lower level of punishment. This approach is a strong expression of the need for courts to step up their efforts to exploit the entire criminal framework. I will briefly address some of the points in the setting, especially those with material changes in relation to the applicable law. In the general public opinion, there seems to be an increasing tendency over the Norwegian judiciary, not least in relation to issues of rape. It is said to be a few of the actual rapes that are being reported, because it is almost impossible to get anyone convicted of such an offence, and among the cases being investigated, there is in turn a minority who end up with conviction. The burden on the victim is great, both during the investigation period and during the proceedings. In addition, a recent complication has also emerged for the alleged victim of violence, namely the possibility of injury seeking because of reverential accusations against the offender. This, together with the difficult burden of proof the victim has, makes it understandable that many people are resigning because there's probably nothing out of it anyway. The Committee agrees that actual rapes should lead to punishment, but we disagree on what is the best way to proceed. The majority, who at this point are the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, will, like the Department, criminalize grossly negligently. We believe that this will strengthen the legal protection of the victim without any corresponding deterioration in legal certainty for the perpetrator. With that provision, we will make it more difficult to use the excuse: I thought she would. It is grossly negligent if there is ‘a qualified complainant’ behaviour which causes strong criticisms of a lack of care’, as it is called in legal language. In everyday speech, we would probably mention it as if a person had shown a complete lack of gait and acted contrary to what a generally sensible and considerate person would have done in the same situation. The majority are aware of the objections raised against the criminalisation of grossly negligent rape, among others. that this could result in intentional rapes being convicted as negligent and thus lower penalties. It is not the intention of the majority to choose the simplest solution but to make serious inquiries and judgments in accordance with the facts. In addition, we believe that through the extension of 'heavily negligent', several rapes will be exposed and convicted. It is important and necessary that the responsibility is placed where it belongs, namely with the attacker and not with the victim. With regard to the right to bring an action for infringement after notification of rape, all members of the Committee, other than the Progress Party, consider that it is extremely unfortunate that Norwegian law provides protection for the honor of the man by means of injury legislation, while the integrity of the woman to be subjected to rape comes second. Recent cases in the judicial system have shown that it is not the actual notification on the basis of the injury case, but that the notifier has told others about the alleged rape. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that it would be unreasonable for persons who believe they have been victims of a sexual crime to have no opportunity to tell their history when this is necessary to process or deal with the consequences of the incident, without having to consider the risk of injury proceedings. But of course, we don't open up the possibility of spreading rumors without any consequences. The one to whom the accusation is addressed is also entitled to the protection that the law continues to provide. The law on rape is now being extended to the target of ‘making’ sexual intercourse. There may be different reasons and varying backgrounds because someone is unable to provide the resistance to unwanted sexual intercourse that is characterized by shouts, fights, bites, chlorine, etc. Where there is a link between a threatening behaviour and a lack of resistance, or between violent threats and sexual intercourse, it shall be sufficient to coincide with the provision of the rape. At this point, we also get a penalty tightening by increasing the maximum sentence to ten years in prison, and by imposing a minimum one-year sentence on sexual intercourse achieved by threats. The Committee is very concerned to stress that children do not need to be judged on the basis of the reaction patterns of adults or the thinking of adults. Children shall be understood, treated and protected according to their level. We point it out several times in the setting, for example. in this context, relating to the provision of resistance, or in the experience of sexual activity being intercourse or anything else. It is essential that blame and responsibility are always placed where it belongs, that is, with the attacker. I would also like to draw in this context a point where it seems that the proposition is unclear, but where the committee will be crystal clear. This concerns the possibility of long-term adverse effects being used as a criminal aggravating factor. The Committee agrees that this should always be taken into account in criminal proceedings against children. Judicial practices have not so far considered it a prodigious act to force anyone to commit sexual acts with themselves. We will now change this by inserting a new penalty option in Section 192, first paragraph, which may read as follows: ‘(c) in the event of violence or in the event of a threat of conduct, someone has sexual relations with another person or performs similar acts with himself.’;» The Committee considers such matters to be as criminal as if the rapist himself had committed the offences. Yes, perhaps such a procedure is mentioned, especially humiliating to the victim. As regards the definition of aggregation, the Committee considers that it should be extended in relation to children under 14 years of age. We don't think it's crucial whether the penis is completely penetrated into the vagina to make this feel like intercourse for a child. We also believe that a new assessment should be made as to whether the definition of intercourse should also include entry of fingers into the end-arm opening or spoon, and ask the ministry to come back with an assessment thereof. In particular for the child, such abuses may be considered as offensive to a sexual intercourse. The Committee endorses the Ministry's proposal to extend the penal framework for abuses carried out in a particularly painful or offensive manner, or by several in common. The Committee fully agrees that such abuses qualify for the strictest punishment of law. In decisions adopted in the Inst. O. No 38 on better legal protection for children, who were signed as rapporteur of the case in the spring of 1998, it was decided: ‘However, in the event of an infringement of Paragraph 195, the period shall expire on the day on which the offence reaches the age of 18.’; This led to the unintended consequence that there was still an age group of children, namely those between 14 and 16 years of age, for whom the limitation period would start from the date of termination of the offence. In the position we adopt today, we decide that it is in any case the 18-year limit that should be the beginning time of the age of those who have not reached the sexual demise when the criminal relationship ends. In the same position, we underline the importance that the practicalities such as technical equipment and personnel, interrogation rooms, contact with experts or especially well-known persons have been prepared in advance, i.e. before a specific notification is received. We also underlined the importance of the police and court being prepared for such cases, so that the progress of the case is not delayed because the practical aspects of the case are not settled. Today, too, we find it absolutely necessary to stress the importance of working well between the various bodies. The competence of those to assist both victims and victims must be continuously built up. The Committee agrees that it is difficult to build competences at all local police stations/members’ offices or primary health services in such cases. It is therefore important to follow the advice of the project report ‘Sexual abuse against women and children’, developed by the Nordic Women’s University in 1998. Some regional investigative centres may be an important measure to enhance their competence by gathering and building up knowledge among some officials, health professionals or prosecutors, who can then assist the various districts as necessary. In the context of the annual State budgets, the Judicial Committee will request information on the status and statistics of rape cases at all political chambers. This is how we will verify and verify that the Committee's objective is being achieved. The Progress Party proposes several increases in minimum penalties not supported by the majority of the Committee. But in one area where the minimum penalty has already been imposed, namely for rape, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Central Party believe that this should be raised to two years. This proposal is supported by a majority by the Progress Party providing it with subsidiary support. The question of hormone treatment for attackers is not my concern, nor is it about loss of rights. But I think it is important to stress the provision that abuse of overpowering conditions should not be limited to serious abuse. Any person who abuses his or her position as chief/leader/supervisor/priest/séleurs/sportsleader, etc. in order to engage in sexual relations with someone with whom he or she is in an overpowering relationship, is punishable. Buying sexual services from persons under the age of 18 will become a criminal offence. In view of the fact that Sweden criminalised all the purchases of sexual services with effect from 1 January 1999, the majority of the Committee supports the Ministry's view of careful monitoring of developments on the other side of the Cooling and, in the light of the experience gained, considering the possible extension of the ban by us. When it comes to online pornography, I just have to refer to the setting. The children’s ombudsman receives many requests from parents and young people who react strongly to the exposure of children to pornography. The entire Committee supports the request of the Children’s Ombudsman for clear guidelines, both for the magazine industry targeting children and young people, and for the hotel industry. The Committee considers it important that children are not exposed to ‘gratispornography’ on the hotel’s TV channels. The Christian People's Party asks the Ministry to take the initiative to develop such guidelines as are requested by the Children's Ombudsman. Finally, let me point to the fact that children and young people are subjected to a considerable pressure to perceive also sexuality and sex as an asset that can be offered and demanded. Therefore, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party will introduce a so-called exhibition ban on magazines and images that are suitable in public places to arouse adversities. Over the year it has been working to get sales outlets to put out and sell porn leaves in a discreet manner, without giving satisfactory results. It is with great pleasure that I recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1140	The Labour Party is very pleased with the changes in the provisions of the Criminal Code on sexual offences which the Storting will adopt in the light of the current situation. I choose this approach, because although there are a number of different views on some points, I think the matter is marked by broad political consensus. It's an important signal to society and to the judicial system. The decision of the magistrate in this matter will strengthen women and children's legal certainty and protection against sexual abuse. The consensus makes me not want to mention all the changes and views in the setting, but rather concentrate on some important ones. The majority of the Committee, including the Labour Party, proposes to criminalise grossly negligent rape. The strict requirement for proof of conviction will still apply. Today, the court must find it proved beyond reasonable and reasonable doubt that the perpetrator understood that sexual intercourse was not voluntary on the other hand. The new provision implies a conviction if the court finds it proved beyond reasonable and reasonable doubt that he should understand that sexual intercourse was not voluntary. I hope this change will mean that several notifying parties infringed. In this context, it is also important that we now make changes to injury legislation, because we know that many choose not to report a rape. And we've heard that defense lawyers don't advise their clients to report rapes. Not only because the statistics on the number of injunctions and acquittals give a signal that it is not useful, but also because in two cases it has been seen that a report can lead to a high level of liability. This is not a legal state worthy. It shall not be such that the fear of being convicted of paying compensation prevents you from reporting a crime. That is why we are changing the law on injury. The person claiming to be subject to an infringement shall not be held legally liable for the false nature of that claim when made in a notification, unless it was grossly negligent to assume that the information was true. One should also have the opportunity to make known the claim in a confidential conversation with a person to whom it is natural to rely. The Labour Party believes that the penalties are well known, but that the level of penalties for sexual abuse is far too low. There is no doubt that not only the legislator but also the courts have a role to play in ensuring that the level of penalties for various types of crime is proportionate and proportionate. the adverse effects of the criminal offences involved. The courts must step up the criminal investigation in cases of sexual assault. Rape for intercourse and intercourse with children under 14 years of age are so serious that it justifies the use of the minimum penalty, and thus also increases the maximum penalty to 15 years of age. So we're not in principle against minimum penalties, but the Labour Party believes that lifting the minimum penalty from one to two years is not a proper instrument to increase the level of penalties. On the contrary, we are afraid that such an increase in the minimum penalty will give the true opposite result of the majority of the committee's wishes. Experience has shown that the use of minimum penalties can lead to the use of lower penalties, as well as to acquittal on a questionable basis. Such effects will be enhanced by a higher level of the minimum penalty. The Criminal Felony Commission has expressed strong scepticism about the use of minimum penalties in general and neither the Sex Code Committee, the Hearing Officers nor the Ministry has proposed any increase in the minimum penalties in relation to the applicable law. Against this background, the Labour Party is opposed to the proposal to lift the minimum penalties imposed today. I also find reason to mention the matter one, among other things. the media could get the impression of was the most important, namely pornography. The working party is pleased that a majority do not want a change in the definition of pornography. This prevents the porn industry from constantly pushing borders and getting new markets, which we believe has an unfortunate impact both on society in general and on individuals, for example. children and young people. Rather, the problem is that public space is already marked by a commercial exploitation of sexuality. There is no popular demand for more pornography! To end with what I started with: the changes we are making today, we believe will strengthen legal certainty for women and children in matters of sexual abuse. However, it is important to stress that the social problem of sexual crime cannot be tackled by legislative changes alone. We also need to change the attitudes that exist and strengthen the work of the police and prosecution authorities, in the judicial system and in society at large. I refer you to the rapporteur's excellent contributions, and I take up the Workers' Party's minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1172	The representative of Bjørnstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1175	I have noticed by reading the comments that the Christian People's Party believes that pornography promotes a human vision that the party dislikes. Therefore, they want to ban the type of pornography permitted in most other countries in Europe and the world. The argument is political, that's the content of pornography you don't like. Personally, I do not like the Christian People's Party program, but I do not promote any proposal to ban it for that reason. We're on dangerous roads when we want to use legal bans on attitudes, opinions and opinions that we don't like ourselves. In a free and democratic society, we need to accept opinions and attitudes that are only shared by a minority of the population. Unfortunately, Norwegian politicians tend to ban everything they don't like themselves. It is alarming that the ban on showing general sexual images is supported by all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party – including the Right – who so often try to present themselves as a party with liberal attitudes to democracy, freedom of expression, personal freedom, pluralism, freedom of choice and tolerance. So the limit of Right Liberalism and Tolerance is at male gender in motion. It's an interesting frontier rise. The majority of the Sex Crime Commission, the Freedom of Speech Commission, the National Attorney and the Police want to change the definition of illegal pornography, as proposed by the Progress Party. Most representatives of the police and prosecution authorities point to the fact that the investigation of the type of pornography opens up in their proposal has been down-priority for resource reasons and that liberalisation will improve compliance between law and enforcement. It is alarming that neither the Right Party nor any other party other than the Advance Party emphasises the arguments put forward by these heavy hearing bodies. In the media debate on the work of the Sex Crime Committee, the TV1000 cord and the Christian People's Party and Workers' Party's proposal for a ban on displaying nude images that may cause adversities has been in the centre. Unfortunately, it has overshadowed the many more important questions that lie in this matter. Questions about the definition of pornography, exhibition bans and prostitution legislation are minor issues compared to the question of how to reduce the number of rapes and sexual abuses against innocent children. There are these questions that the media should pay attention to. In August 1996, VG referred to a study conducted by researcher and psychologist Svein Mossige at the Center for Clinical Psychological Research, which concluded that many who have once committed suicide in children will do so again. About the same time, TV 2 referred to an American survey that showed that over 50 pst. pedophile offenders in the United States are reintroducing within two days of their release. The fact that the risk of recurrences is so significant and the results of psychiatric treatment so dubious, combined with the enormous long-term psychological adverse effects on the victims, should suggest that, in the interests of our children, we cannot release the pedophile invaders into society again without being a hundred percent sure they cannot – and will – reintroduce themselves. As early as 10 years ago, the Progress Party therefore proposed that no pedophile offenders should have access to leave from prison, or to leave prison after an end of residence, unless they were willing to be castrated through a safe medical treatment. All parties outside the Advance Party voted in favour of these proposals. The majority of adults have also voted in favour of later proposals to prohibit the use of conditional penalties for sexual offenders. Therefore, practice today is still as shown by these Aftenposte examples in 1996: A 67-year-old man who regularly had intercourse with a dick through large parts of her childhood, from she was 7 to 15 years old, was sentenced to three months of unconditional imprisonment. The remainder of the two-year and eight-month sentence was made conditional. A 53-year-old man who had previously been punished for moral crimes against minors was sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for one year and six months for a number of times masturbating a boy when he was from seven to eleven years old. A 13-year-old refugee boy was abused several times a week in a closet in a sports facility by an adult man. The attacks took place over several years. Four other boys were abused by the same man, and yet he was sentenced to only four and a half years in prison. The most severe pedophilia conviction in Norway is nine years in prison, plus security. In this case, the court estimated the number of infringements from this person to approx. 1 000. For two of the boys, the court wrote that it ‘estimates that in the period from the 1993 to the January 1996 harvest the defendant has committed insults from 1 to 4 times per. week, sometimes several times a day... the children were drawn into a relatively firm pattern, with masturbation and gladly with the suction of the penis. [[often mutual]] In several cases, the accused have had triggers that have sprayed the boys, in some cases in the mouth. By lubricating semen in anus he has also tried to penetrate into anus.» So this did not qualify for 21 years in prison, but only for nine years in prison. Right now a dangerous pedophile is attacking the small municipality of Rennesøy outside Stavanger. He was convicted of assaults against several children and was given a warrant, because the court considered that there was a risk of repetition. Nevertheless, after finishing his sentence a few years in prison, he was transferred to a shelter in Stavanger, subject to criminal custody in freedom, and then transferred to his home commune, where he now lives for himself. The combination of today's useless legislation, for which the majority of people are responsible, the criminal justice practices and a liberal attitude in the Prison Board, makes it possible to describe today's reality in a similar way: the penalty for destroying one or more children's lives is often from one year to five years of imprisonment. In some cases, only a minor part of the sentence is served in prison. When the sentence is completed, the attacker is released directly into the street, ready to seek out new victims. Even when the attacker is considered so dangerous that he has received a protective sentence, the protective sentence is served in such a way that it gives the pedophile attacker a good opportunity to destroy new children while he is serving the protective sentence. So that's the reality of the day, and so today's reality is going to be pretty much the same after today's revision of the penal code. The only way to force the courts to impose stricter penalties is, of course, to impose minimum penalties so high that today's unreasonablely low penalties can no longer be imposed. Nevertheless, the only change in the minimum penalties for which there is a majority in the Grand Duchy is an increase in the minimum penalty for rape involving intercourse from one year to two years of imprisonment, while also extending the definition of intercourse to the introduction of the penis in the mouth, the introduction of the penis in and between the large and small sex empties, and the introduction of the article into the puncture or endothelial opening. It will continue to provide the courts with the opportunity to impose unfairly low penalties. And there is no majority to keep pedophiles in prison or closed custody if they have not undergone safe treatment with drugs, so that they lose sexual activity. The majority will continue to allow prison authorities to release dangerous offenders from prisons on weekends. The Labour Party does not even agree to increase the minimum penalty for cohabitation with children from one year to two years of age. All parties write very well in the committee comments, but it stays with the words. In a situation that screams at action, the bulk of the population is the lamb of action. The Progress Party makes a number of proposals to increase minimum penalties and maximum penalties. For example, for intercourse with children under the age of 14, the Progress Party proposes a minimum sentence of five years imprisonment, against the current minimum sentence of one year. At the same time, we are proposing to impose the maximum penalty for sexual assault on children to 21 years of age in prison, even in those cases that do not involve sexual intercourse. However, our main proposal is the proposal that no pedophile repeaters should be released from prison after settlement, unless they accept castration. The proposals of the Progress Party, in sum, will make current case law impossible, and will provide our children with a completely different level of protection from abuse than the majority of the Stortinget wants to give them. If the proposal of the Progress Party had been adopted as early as 1991, many children would have been delighted to have their lives destroyed. The majority of the population have many children's lives on their consciences as a result of their policies, which have enabled courts and prison management in the department to take more account of the pedophile perpetrators than of our children. Today's crowds do not want to clean up enough in this and thus assume a great responsibility in the future as well. We know for sure that many children's lives will be destroyed as a result of the fact that today we do not take the opportunity to make it impossible for known pedophiles to force themselves into sexual intercourse and mutual masturbation of children all the way down to the age of five. Finally, I would like to comment on the proposals from the Progress Party that are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1231	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1234	When you face a serious and shocking social problem and you are a decision-maker in the Norwegian economy, you have two options. One option is to try to secure a majority to make changes, so that we can say to both voters and relatives out there that we have actually both tried to do something and that we've got it done. The second possibility is to shout with a loud voice: nothing happens, nothing happens, nothing happens, and then make it a business idea to sell that reality out to the people. There are some people who have chosen the last option, but thank you and the price, so the bulk of the population chooses another way. In the right-hand press release, we have made 21 very important improvements as we do in this legal process. At 21 points, we're tightening up the penalties, we're tightening the criteria for what's considered to be an abuse, and we're securing the victims in a much better way. There is a relatively large consensus on this, and I am pleased about that. On some points, there is disagreement. One of the points relates to the minimum penalty. It is clear that we should be careful to impose minimum penalties, because it takes away much of the freedom of action of the court. And there's a difference between a killing committed in self-defense and a killing committed intentionally and with the intended action. This could probably be the case for some other criminal acts, too, but in the case of violence against children, the rape of young children, we are talking about an area where there is actually a basis for resorting to the instrument of minimum punishment. That instrument has already been used by the Stortinget by the fact that there is today a minimum penalty of one year for such acts. But many of the punishments we are familiar with through the media and through contact with relatives and victims show us that this is not enough. I would like to remind you that when, for some time, the Stortinget discussed a proposal from the Advance Party to impose a severe increase in criminal investigations, the Supreme Court said in its feedback to the Justice Committee: there are three things you can do. One is to raise the penalties or, in comments, to say clearly that you are not satisfied with the punishments. The other thing you can do is to describe more clearly the individual paragraph of the law, so that more matters are considered to be exacerbating when a criminal measure is to be carried out. The third thing you can do is you can raise the minimum penalty. And in this setting of the Sex Crime Selection, we're all doing these three things. With this attitude, it is no longer possible for the courts to maintain the same level of penalties as they have imposed in Norway until now. There is therefore no reason to sell that version externally that everything is still the same, because it is not factually correct, and it will be very easy to discover for anyone who takes the time to read the setting. These are hers in some areas, for example: it is linked to the theme ‘Negative rape’. The reason for this is not that not everyone looks equally seriously at rape or the fact that too few reports of rape end up in a conviction. But when we're going to find the right way to get this problem alive, we have to listen to some people who have the shoe on. And there are important contributors, both assistant lawyers, state attorneys and others who have their daily place of residence in the courtroom, and who say that when a jury is going to settle a guilt issue, they often look for a golden middleway, a way of compromising between judgment and relieving. And by introducing ‘indiscriminate rape’, it increases the jury’s ability to land at an intermediate point where there is actually a basis for guilty, guilty with intent. That's the reason why the Right does not support negligent rape. But I also believe in the intentions of the other parties' assessment of the notion of 'unrelenting rape', which means that one has concluded differently. And I hope in a way that the majority that the Right does not form part of gets right. There's also some other point that we've disagreed on, among other things. the imposition of minimum penalties in the event of the rape of children or in the event of rape in general. I would like to warn you a little bit about the argument that the Workers' Party makes in its remarks, namely that one-sided warning against minimum penalties, while we know that in some areas the Workers' Party has been involved in imposing minimum penalties. We have the minimum penalty for killing. We have the minimum penalty for rape today. We are even imposing, unanimously, a minimum penalty for sexual intercourse as a result of threats, in what we are adopting today. And then you can't say that the only party that has found the sacred point of balance when it comes to rape or rape against children is the Workers' Party. Then you also have to admit that maybe raising from one to two years is actually right, and that actually the majority also have that care when it comes to applying the minimum penalty, which we all know we have to have in the back of our head. The right does not support the exhibition ban. The main reason is that we think that certain things can actually be achieved through voluntary agreements with the industries that sell pornography, and then I'm talking about legal pornography. I'm even the mother of children who find it uncomfortable to trade Donald when there's a lot of naked ladies hanging over and around Donald Duck. But there's a reason to mention that most shops actually sort this in a considerate way, and I think we can get everyone to take the same consideration without going the way of legal regulation. You can't regulate everything you don't like, and sometimes you actually get the same distance with voluntary agreements. The case rapporteur has discussed much of what is in the content of this setting. I want to spend some time justifying a particular relationship, and that's what's related to chemical castration or medical hormone treatment. It has often been referred to as «chemical castration» on the public mouth, but what we are talking about is medication. The reason why the Right is no longer satisfied with just sitting and waiting for new evaluations and investigations is that during the last major period the Social Committee dealt with this issue, it was during the previous Grand Prix Committee on this issue and nothing has happened despite having good experience from Denmark with so-called voluntary castration. That is why the Right wants to go a step further than the majority has been willing to in its proposal, and we have been given the Progress Party as a co-sponsor, with the premise that I am referring to here, namely the word ‘freedom’ and as part of a medical treatment. The sum of what's here makes it possible for us to see a lot of victims in our eyes with a much better conscience than the Stortinget has so far been able to, and it's quite possible to tell outside that we've actually taken on a lot of the tragic fates that meet us both through the media and through direct contact. And I take a sharp distance from those who make it a business idea to sell out that nothing happens, nothing happens, the Storting doesn't care – because that's simply not true.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1262	Today, we are dealing with the revision of the penal code in terms of crimes and offences against morality. In the Central Party, we are very pleased that this absolutely necessary revision has now been launched, which is both a simplification and modernisation and a clear strengthening of the protection of children and women from sexual abuse. The Ministry of Justice of the Grand Duchy has stated on several occasions that the level of penalties for crimes of morality, among other things. against children, should be intensified. These signals strengthen the Committee in this setting, saying that the punishment of morals is too low and that it is still desirable to tighten up the penalties. We also expect our signals to be followed up by the courts. The punishment of the perpetrator gives signals of how serious society views a criminal act, and then it becomes completely wrong when sexual assaults/rapies are punished less than, for example, economic crimes. It's an undeniable fact that getting rape ends up being a case before the courts. It's a big problem for our society that so few cases of sexual assault end up with a conviction. To a large extent, it may seem that victims of sexual abuse are underprivileged. There is therefore every reason to welcome the recommendations made by the Working Party of the Advocate General to streamline and improve investigations into criminal offences. The central party belongs to the majority of the committee in favour of criminalising grossly negligent rape. In the Central Party, we are pleased that the Committee is in favour of all threatening behaviour being subject to the provisions on rape, which means strengthening the legal protection of the victim. This is positive, but it is also important to have the whole thing with regard to the rights of victims of violence, and I therefore allow myself to refer to the Legal Affairs Committee's consideration of my Document No. Eight proposals to strengthen the rights of victims of violence. The majority of the Committee agrees that the extended definition of intercourse applies to children under the age of 14. There has also been a recent increase in the incidence of group violence, and the Central Party therefore supports the Ministry’s proposal to extend the penal framework for abuses carried out in a particularly painful or offensive way, or by several in common. In our opinion, these serious abuses must be punished with the strictest punishment of the law. The Central Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Right, agrees that the minimum penalty in the general rule should be introduced with caution. We point out, however, that the Stortinge has nevertheless adopted the minimum penalty in relation to such a serious criminal act as has been committed by rape. These parties stress that sexual intercourse with children under 14 years of age is a very serious offence and propose to lift the minimum applicable penalty in the event of such offences from one to two years of age. It is surprising that the Labour Party is opposed to this proposal to lift the minimum penalty. An important element in this matter has been the relationship with the current law on injury. The central party believes it is extremely unfortunate that Norwegian law provides greater protection for the honor of men through injury legislation than for the impairment of the integrity of women to be subject to rape. We have also shown how difficult it is already to get a conviction in rape cases, and that many women who have been subjected to assault do not report the case because of the objections a legal case will bring upon them. In addition, when an injury case can be brought against it and the situation becomes very difficult to pay for compensation/repudiation. I want to go further in protecting victims of rape from injury than what the ministry proposes. The Central Party supports the Ministry's proposal to criminalise the purchase of sexual services from persons under 18 years of age. I agree that this group calls for special protection against sexual exploitation, and that proposals for criminalisation are a clear signal of how society views such actions. Finally, in the Central Party, we are very pleased with the comments and suggestions made by the majority in the vote, which will clearly strengthen the protection of women and children from sexual abuse. The Ministry shall also have all the honour of working solidly on the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1292	Now when the Storting decides to criminalize grossly negligent rape, it is a victory. It is a victory for the women's movement, it is a victory for Lisbeth Holand and SV, who proposed this precisely when Stortinget dealt with Document No. 8:61 for 1993-94 in 1995, and this is a victory for the group in Bergen, among others. signed work in and which gave Lisbeth Holand the arguments for the criminalisation of negligent rape. But most of all, there is a victory for those women who are raped and who now have a greater chance of being believed in the judiciary, and thus have a greater chance of taking hold of their lives after the assault. I must give commendation to both the Ministers of Justice who have been in charge of this matter. I also commend the Committee and the rapporteur for the work that has been done. Today, society is coming a long way to strengthen women's and children's rights, for it is mostly women and children who are victims of sexualized violence, and there are men who are perpetrating violence, as the rapporteur quite rightly said. In today's Norway, we have a great deal of darkness in the area of rape. ==References== 6 000 rapes are likely to occur every year. Of these, only 400 are reported, and 90 pst. of them being consecrated. And many of those who have reported rape regret it because the whole process is perceived as too tough – it gets too tough not to be believed. The victims' experiences are supported by a report by the Riksadvokat's internal working group in April. It is important to put in place effective measures to strengthen police and prosecution authorities’ treatment of rape reports, so that this type of case is properly prioritised. Schooling and awareness-raising must start early, and must be carried out in the training of police and health professionals. It is important to learn from Åse Texmo's project report on sexual abuse against women and children. We need to establish regional units with acute sexual abuse skills, and the government needs to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with concrete proposals that can make this possible. SV is pleased that there is a consensus in the Storting that such competence should be given priority. When Lisbeth Holand, in the last growing-up period, proposed a change in the concept of rape, it was to put the consent issue in focus. In the event of domestic violence and rape, the perpetrator is often released in the absence of negligence. A rule of negligence gives a positive signal to women that they are being taken seriously in a new way, and will probably increase the number of reviews, as Canada's experience shows. Now, when the bulk of the population is just going to criminalize grossly negligent rape, it's still a step in the right direction. But half of the job is left. It is therefore important to evaluate the legislative changes once the law has worked for a while. And SV will come back to the case when evaluation is available. As far as pornography is concerned, I want to focus in particular on the legal definition of porn. Lisbeth Bang, a member of the Sexual Crimes Committee, pointed in his dissertation to the need for criminal law to also focus on the fact that pornography is discrimination against women, or gender-affecting, as she said it. Many women experience much of the pornography available on the market as offensive and threatening. Women are produced in a degrading and discriminatory manner. Otherwise, when society is concerned with gender equality and the prohibition of discrimination against women, it should be natural to include the concept of discrimination against women in the law. However, I take note that this does not happen this time. In other words, women have some fights again before equality and the prohibition of discrimination is achieved. Nevertheless, I am pleased that there will be no liberalisation of porn legislation now. It will put some obstacles in the way of a growing porno and prostitution market, where women and children are commodities. Finally, SV will focus on the major improvements that are now being made in the field of injury law. Now, when the Storting adopts a new provision that limits the possibility for the perpetrator to go to injury cases against the offended and the offended, this is a great victory – it is a great victory for Action Judicial Security for Women, which more than anyone else has brought to light on these cases, and it is not least there is support for the victims who are being abused. SV supports the Workers' Party in the view of minimum penalties as set out in proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1313	The left-hand side follows the majority of the vote on all points as close as one, and I'm going to get back to it. The left is particularly pleased that, through the work of the setting up, developments have been made in the provision on injury legislation. There is no doubt that a number of court decisions have shown how unfair the position of women has been when they have been subjected to abuse, and in practice what is being done here is to prejudge the work in the position of the Committee on the Freedom of Speech, and that is, in my view, very well justified. There has been good reasoning for that, and I want to express in this way full support for both the initiative that has been taken and the arguments that have been put forward. My general impression of the Committee's work is that one has taken a course which – as the representative Krohn Devold said – must be perceived at all important points to commit crime by using sexuality as a weapon aimed at women in particular, but also at children, very seriously. You're referring to all the essentials. And if you were to draw a dividing line -- and I allow myself to draw it -- it's possible to draw a political dividing line between being tough and being raw. I think the committee has been tough. Then it would probably be a taste if you were to be tougher. However, I think that a total balance has been found on the conditions that have been addressed. On some points, this setting, which distinguishes itself by its width, is the same as several representatives have been in it. As regards the issue of increasing the minimum penalty in Section 192, second paragraph, which applies to children under 14, Left supports the tightening done. There may be a lot of arguments for not going into the minimum penalty in general, but here there is a minimum penalty in the law already, and I think at this point this is an attitude signal that goes into the other attitudes that are at work. It has been stressed by the majority of committees that it is now necessary to press on to investigate the treatment of people who have committed serious sexual crimes, and that is a line that we support. But there are also measures that we would like to have the right to come back to based on the work that is taking place. With regard to the question of using as a general rule that a perpetrator of an offence against minors should not be able to have a job, we support it after an overall assessment. I'm glad you haven't gone into automatics, because then you would have gone a lot away from the principles that you generally claim, that you won't automatically insist on criminal reactions. I think the majority of the committee here has chosen a line that's right. As regards this and the debate on the exhibition ban, the Left shares the position expressed by the representative Krohn Devold. She described it very well by taking her children as examples. We believe that what has already been achieved in cooperation with the industry is what should be taken into account, and that that is what is probably what promotes the demarcation between what is to be artistic, erotic, scientific and not to be affected by the ban and what is to be hit. If this is not enough, we will also reserve the right to come back to it, and we will, of course, assess on a free basis the work done by the Department and which will result from the fact that the majority has a different position than what we have. In general, I would like to comment on the work done by the Committee, in that I think it is very important that the situation of the victims has been more focused. It is always difficult to balance against legal certainty. It's very easy to end up in populist ditches, but I think it's based on debates that have taken place in the Storting for a long time, also in this case, that the victims have to be able to establish in many ways that they are coming out very weakly. With regard to the victims here, in most cases in the adult situation women, and children, have been expressed in such a way that clear signals have been given that the situation of the victims is being emphasised. So you've also deliberately expressed yourself in a different way than many professional bodies in the judiciary have done, but I think, and we think that's the right way to balance it. It's a way to send a powerful signal out into society, and it's a signal that we fully support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1333	Odelstinget today adopted a number of changes in the chapter of criminal law on sexual crime. These changes will strengthen women and children's legal certainty in matters of sexual assault. I'm very happy that we're able to get this reinforcement in as serious and difficult criminal matters as sexual assault represents. And I'm very happy that there are men who have taken the main responsibility for the Storting's handling of the case. The fight against sexual crime and the fight for a strengthening of the victim's legal security in these cases has until now been a woman's cause. It's our women's movement and the women's organizations that have fought this fight. But the story of the women's struggle has shown us that it is only when men unite with our demands, when men take part in the fight and it becomes a political theme regardless of gender, that we really manage to achieve change. We have this, among other things. through the fight for political and economic autonomy. Now we also see it through the struggle for freedom from fear of sexual assault. In the Labour Party and in our women's movement, we are pleased with the changes that are currently moving towards an equal legal society. An attack does not frame just the only victim. A sexual assault also frames all those who get their freedom of action at home as a result of fear of being attacked: all the women who do not dare to walk home alone a late night, all the children who do not dare to take the shortcut through the forest, and all the parents who do not dare to let their children into the community. Freedom from this fear is an important political goal for us. We have come a step closer to this goal by the law-enforcement Odelstinget now understands, and the men too have taken a great responsibility to get through. A sharp law is important to indicate that society is distanced from and strongly responding to all forms of sexual abuse. A sharp law is also important to increase the security of victims of sexual violence. Once a sexual crime has occurred, one of our legal societies, of course, shall report on the crime. Then it's important to have a law that takes on the seriousness of the abuses that have occurred, because we can't have a law that allows a new offense. We must have a law that calls on the victims to report a crime, which shows that the lawmakers take seriously the offence, the fear and the damage that has been done, and that leads to the offender being held liable for the serious crime he has suffered. That's why the sum of the legal changes we're making today is very important from the victim's point of view. Changes in the law lead to changes in the law, including: that where there has been a selection, even if the victim was unable to oppose sexual intercourse because of abusing or coercion, and where a selection has been made with intercourse, although the penis of the attacker has not been introduced into the inner part of the child's sexual organs, no longer does an infringer escape the criminal responsibility by believing that he believed sexual intercourse was voluntary, if he should understand that she would not. Anyone who thinks he has suffered a sexual assault shall not risk a claim for compensation against him because the infringement has been notified of, if the message has been presented in all reasonable faith. Something else is not worthy of our legal community. But what about all the false messages, ask more. To this I will briefly reply that a false message will never be presented in a cautious good faith. A false message itself is the basis for punishment. And the post-examination must be so thorough that a false message will be extinguished at the time of the investigation. Sexual assault is not a private problem for the individual victim. It's a serious social problem. Sexual fracture works shall never be accepted. An effective response to these serious criminal acts requires a holistic perspective and wide bets on many fronts. Many can be made through changes of promise. But this is also about the work the police are doing at the time of the investigation. It's about how victims meet in the courtroom, it's about the help victims get after the assault has taken place, and it's about what punishment the courts impose in the individual case. The majority has given the courts a clear and clear signal that the level of penalties in sexual crime cases is far too low. This should be followed by the courts. Because it is not perceived as right and fair that, among other things. a policeman is punishable by a far more severe punishment than the offender receives. Promiseing his frames is known enough. It's the punishment measure that needs to be tightened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1352	Women’s organisations in Norway, in particular, have long said loudly that violence against women is an obstacle to individual women’s legal certainty. Violence is also an obstacle to continued progress towards gender equality. Women's organisations have the power to show that the violence to which women are subjected is not just a problem for the individual victim, but for society as a whole. A sharp and proper law is important to indicate that society is taking a distance from and reacting strongly to all forms of violence against women. A sharp law is also important to increase the safety of victims of violence. Violence against women is often sexualized. Unfortunately, among the victims of sexualized violence, there is also a child. Today is a good step forward in the fight against sexualised violence. Through the changes, we strengthen the legal certainty of women and children and provide better protection against sexual abuse. At the same time, we send important signals that sexualized violence is a social problem that we take seriously. Much has happened in the last five to six years since we dealt with the proposition that centered the victim of violence on today's changes in the title of morality in the penal code. The Women's Movement in the Workers' Party held this on the agenda of its Country Women's Conference in autumn 1998. Today’s numerous decisions show that the Women’s Movement has been permeated by the main features of its demands from then on. In recent years, we have also received increased attention in the international arena on the issue of violence against women. Violence against women was a central theme of the fourth UN Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. This conference was followed up, among others. through the United Nations Conference held in New York last week. In the EU, the prevention and combating of violence against women and trafficking in women for sexual exploitation, known as ‘trafficking’, is high on the political agenda. When the Justice Committee was on a recent study on organised crime in Europe, it was striking how often trafficking in women as sex objects was referred to as one of the main challenges, both by people in the United Nations system and by the authorities in Italy. Trafficking in children and women is the third largest industry in the world, after weapons and drugs. According to the United Nations, every year four million people, mainly women and children, are traded in the sex industry, giving the Halicans more than $7 billion in turnover. The head of the French Human Trafficking Department reports that in Albania there are camps where girls are raped and dressed to be sent to Western countries to run prostitution. Others come even further from, fleeing from poverty, lured to Western countries to earn money in the usual way, but find abruptly themselves as confined sex slaves laureates laureated their hallicatures. Our domestic prostitutes also tell us that the real volunteer is absent, that they too are as good as ever fleeing from something. It could be a lack of money, a history of sexual assault, or a pursuit of the next drug addict. It is in this image that the progress part of the setting gets to say: ‘The party may not see any reasonable arguments in favour of prohibiting voluntary acts between two adults.’ The representative of the Progress Party, Simonsen, characterises prostitution legislation as ‘insignificant’ here in the debate. I'm glad the rest of the committee is now taking a step in the right direction. In addition to prohibiting the purchase of sex by children under the age of 18 and advertising for prostitution, it is established that criminalisation is a clear signal of how society views such actions and asks for a reassessment of the issue when more experience has been gained. I believe that we know more than enough to criminalize prostitution, and that it will be entirely in line with the 1949 UN Convention, which states that prostitution is incompatible with human dignity and value. But I'm glad we're going in the right direction. We must not believe that everything has been done when we now decide to tighten up the rules of criminal law on sexual crimes. In this area, we need constant evaluations and changes, and different actions across a broad field need to be put in place. At the same time, Norway must continue to have a strong commitment to international bodies on issues of violence against women. We must help to ensure that this important work is not left to women alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1381	Time has long been ripe for a revision of the rules on sexual offences. When the government joined Stoltenberg, the government put itself behind the proposition that had already been made by the government of Bondevik. It was not a difficult decision, because the legislative proposals contained in the proposal would just strengthen the protection of children and women from sexual abuse. In addition, the work of the Committee has contributed to the further development of the proposals in the EEA. I am particularly pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal to criminalise grossly negligent rape. Women who are exposed to such reckless behaviour as a grossly negligent rape are entitled to the support and protection provided by the penal code. It is clearly punishable to be so reckless that in retrospect it can be said that it is completely reprehensible not to have understood that this was against the woman's will. I myself am convinced that the criminalisation of grossly negligent rape will lead to more convictions of what has actually been raped. Two cases in the last year have shown us that women who believe they have been subjected to serious sexual assault, and who tell us about this in their community, can be met with injury lawsuits by the designated perpetrator. For an innocent person, it is very bad to be designated a sexual offender. But it's also bad that a person is sentenced to pay compensation for damages for damages for having told the police or their neighbors about an offence that has actually taken place but cannot be proved by the criminal claims for evidence. Without taking a concrete view on the two issues that have been referred to in the media, the cases show that the applicable injury rules can be affected by accidents. I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs has addressed this issue and that, after consulting the Ministry, the Committee is now proposing a provision to that effect. This will ensure that persons who believe that they have been victims of a serious sexual crime will have a room for expression where, without risking injury liability, they can tell their history when this is necessary to deal with the consequences of the act. In my view, the proposal also takes account of the unlawfully designated perpetrators. This is done by the fact that the ordinary rules on injury will apply if the claim is spread outside the circle in which the victim can rely. Children and young people must be specifically protected from sexual abuse. It is gratifying that the committee agrees to continue today's sexual lavalry in 16 years. The same applies to the proposal to criminalise the purchase of sexual services by persons under 18 years of age. If the purchase of sexual services should in general be made punishable, a review should be carried out in two years' time. The majority of the Committee will extend the definition of children under 14 years of age. I've generally been skeptical about extending the definition of intercourse, especially because I think it's unfortunate to express a different definition than what, according to general linguistic understanding, is in the expression. However, as the proposal now stands, it is now only for children under the age of 14, I think that the Committee's proposals can make sense. The penalties for rape and sexual abuse against children are too low today, there is no doubt about it. I fully support the views expressed in the proposal and in the Committee's position that the courts should tighten the penalties for such crimes. But precisely because today's punishment level is so low, there will be a good room for tightening up within the sanctions already in force. The majority of the Committee will increase the minimum sentence from one to two years in relation to the provision of rape and the provision on sexual abuse of children under 14 years of age if sexual intercourse has been sexual intercourse. Minimum penalties have several adverse effects, and there have been several representatives in there, and I cannot support the solution chosen by the committee majority here. I refer in particular to the danger of multiple acquittals, or so-called subsummation, as a result of such a raised frame. I believe that the argument used by the chairman of the committee in relation to a jury's reaction to gross, negligent rape can also be used in the same jury's response to a minimum penalty that is stricter than what you think is right, and thus the risk of acquittal increases. In contrast to the Committee's proposal to lift the minimum penalty, I am pleased that the majority has followed my and the Riksadvokat's specific advice not to raise the normal penalty framework for sexual intercourse with children under 14 years of age to prison for 21 years. But I stress that the punishment framework is 21 years where there are aggravating circumstances. In order to increase the protection of children against persons convicted of moral offences, a rule is proposed in the proposition which obliges the right to assess whether loss of rights is an appropriate response in the individual case. The majority of the Committee supports such a change in the law now, but also goes further and asks the Government to return to the Stortinget with a proposal for a provision that the loss of rights should be judged as a general rule. I agree that the general rule should be the imposition of loss of rights, and therefore such a proposal by the Committee makes sense. The last thing I want to use a few words on is the investigation of sexual assault cases. It is very important that matters of sexual assault are well and thoroughly investigated. The report of the group led by First State Attorney Monica Hansen Nylund has revealed that the investigation is not good enough in many cases. The same was true of the report that Texmo made, which supported the fact that the investigation is not good enough. In the report to Monica Hansen Nylund there are several suggestions to improve on this. This applies, inter alia, to: drawing up a common instruction and checklist for the investigation of such cases amended prosecution competence for a period of review of the offers made for the enhancement of competence at the College of Police College; There are also a number of other proposals that the Government is prepared to follow up as soon as possible. In particular, the Group underlines the lack of priority and leadership in the issues where the investigation has not been good enough. However, that working group does not provide any basis for proposing the establishment of specific regional competence centres. The background for this is in particular the link — or rather the lack of coherence — between the quality of the investigation and the relationship between small and large police and police districts. It turns out that it's the small districts that have the best research on an all-round basis. It can make more questionable whether the proposal on regional competence centres is the right way to achieve what is agreed on, namely a better investigation with a higher level of competence, with a good prioritisation and management in this type of case. However, I believe it is natural to come back to the question of possible regional competence building or other ways of strengthening the investigation of sexual abuse issues in connection with the police poaching, which has been announced late in the fall. In particular, this is because the EEAS will focus on the police division and, below that, on how to carry out regional tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1425	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1428	When I heard Simonsen's posts, I thought of the first time I had a binocular as a little boy. I was wrong about how the binoculars were to be used, and turned the other way around, which meant that what was far away came close. What was near, instead, came completely at a distance. The representative Simonsen has his own ability to repeat from this pulpit his acrobatic sayings in order to describe in the light of his lack of vision and his lack of understanding of the positions of other parties and persons, and then attack on the basis of his own description. It's an unusually bad way of debating, and it doesn't get any better because Simonsen repeats it from this pulpit every quarter. One thing is that the Progress Party believes in itself that they are giving away the truth, that they own the revelation of the good societies of the future, and that they know the way to get there. I will accept that they believe and believe about themselves, although I will not rank them among the great prophets. Something quite different – and I allow myself to raise the voice – is quite another thing to say to the other representatives of this room that we are guilty of the crimes committed in society. It should not be the law of normal wit, thinking people to let such out of their mouths from this pulpit and describe this assembly of this hall in this way! The Prophet is a fallen prophet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1442	The President is a little uncertain about who is the prophet here. Did Simonsen ask for the word? – Then the President should give him the opportunity, despite the fact that it is a little late at night, which the President allows to remember.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1445	I'm not going to spend so much time, but it's clear that it's necessary to replicate cards to the representative and priest Marthinsen, that he should actually accept that there is political disagreement in the Stortinget. In criminal policy it very often goes between the Progress Party and the other parties. He must also accept that it is actually such that when politicians facilitate the possibility of committing criminal acts of a special kind and do not take the necessary measures to prevent crime from taking place, one must also stand up and assume a responsibility. It is possible to prevent pedophile offenders — at least repeats — by introducing a code that says that a sentence is first given, and that once the sentence is completed, you will not escape custody until you have accepted and taken treatment with drugs that you are sure of working. And to the extent that there's pedophiles of the type where such medication doesn't work, you get to be in custody. Then you can be absolutely sure that these people can't at least go against new children. But then you have to be willing to use these tools, and not release the pedophiles into society again, as you've actually done until this day – I'm showing in my speech to several very low judges, and to how easy even security sentences get out of prison. It is possible for us to do something about this through legislation. The majority of the population have said no to do that. Then they have to take the consequences. Then they can not just wash their hands like Pontius Pilate and say that this is not our responsibility, this is the responsibility of others, this is the responsibility of the courts. It's the Stortinge that makes the laws. As elected representatives, we also have a responsibility for our children. And if you're not willing to accept it, you'll also find that you hear it from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1454	The President must correct. So it's a pulpit. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 643]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1470	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1485	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group, and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1496	The changes in the training law presented to Odelstinget today are mainly a follow-up to previous debates related to the reform of skills and the evaluation of reform 94 in secondary education. It is a unanimous committee to provide adults with the right to primary and secondary education. Adults first admitted to secondary education are also entitled to complete a three-year course. The government estimates that 5,000 adults will undertake secondary education each year and estimates the cost of this legalisation to be 247 million. kr. These estimates are uncertain both in terms of the number of adults and the total cost. It is therefore necessary to follow developments closely. As rapporteur of the case, it has been important to find out that the State will pay the additional cost of this new reform. I am pleased that an overall committee proposes to ask the Government to assume that the State will fully finance the additional costs of the county councils relating to the adult's right to secondary education. If the counties and municipalities are to be able to offer adults, active organisation is required. They must also be able to use student associations, distance learning institutions and other providers of primary and secondary education. Here the majority goes further than the Government, as it is important for us to get enough providers, but the counties and municipalities will continue to be responsible for both the offer and the quality. Let me go into some areas that the Christian People's Party will highlight in particular. The approval system for textbooks is now being proposed. The Christian People's Party supports this. We believe that quality control is best achieved through open textbook criticism and the use of multiple sources. During the committee's work, there have been three contributions I would like to comment on. The Christian People's Party, the Left, the Centre Party and the Right have found it necessary to propose a clarification of the private school law in relation to the recognition of fresh schools. In the examination of a specific application to the South, the Council of State has almost given a primacy of argument related to the decline in student numbers and the risk of the closure of public schools. According to the Christian People's Party's assessment, this is a restriction of the parental right in democratic municipalities. This is undemocratic and violates the purpose and purpose of the law. It is therefore necessary to clarify that no unilateral emphasis should be placed on the reduction in student numbers in an overall assessment. As a result, all the fresh schools have a drop in the number of pupils in public schools. This criterion is therefore not applicable as the only criterion. I refer here to the argument in the comment on these lots. The Christian People's Party wants to give the public school good conditions. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will have a predictable framework for the municipalities when they are established. A correction system should be established in the municipal income system, which may include a transitional period of two to three years before the establishment of fresh oils becomes fully effective in the transmission system. I assume that the Government will implement the changes in the private school law by the school year 2000–2001 at the latest. An overall committee goes in to ask the Government to present a case in which one discusses the causes and consequences of school dropout. In this case, measures should be promoted to support cross-border schools in a viable local environment. One of the reasons for this debate coming in more and more municipalities is the narrowing of the municipal economy. An improved municipal economy will help deprived schools. We also need new measures to care for cross-border schools. The Christian People's Party now believes it is right to consider linking these debates to the rules of municipal planning. These are rolled every four years, and one in the meantime avoids major concerns about the future of the primary school. The other government should consider moving the responsibility for school kisses from the county municipality to the municipality. The municipalities hope to save money on going down schools, and then they don't take the expenses for increased school kiss, because this comes on a different budget. This is a bad social economy, and here we have to get the total costs. The Christian People's Party and the majority want to change the rules of target voting in the school circles. The Christian People's Party has always felt that ensuring public participation in voting on the school's educational objectives has been an important issue of cultural policy. This is closely related to the identity of the community of which the school is part. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has turned around here, assuming that the law will be implemented by the school year 2000–2001 at the latest. I will then address the minority proposals to which the Christian People's Party is proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1524	The representative of Lyngstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1529	In light of the fact that it is beginning to be late at night there will be not many lines, but a few will be there during the debate. The rules on voting rights in the selection of training objectives were amended with effect from 1999. The change was based on the fact that only the parents of the students at the school were required to have the right to vote in such cases. The primary view of the Progress Party is that it is right for parents to decide on training for their children. In terms of target form, this is not very easily feasible to the individual, especially in small schools. But the change in law that was made was a very positive step in the right direction, we believe. Since 1 August 1999, according to the Norwegian Target Team, there have been votes at 16 schools, and a solar-clear majority of schools are now in the process of switching to bookkeeping. So when parents can decide for themselves, they choose a large range of book measures. This means that the centre parts, the Working Party and SV have to be stopped. When parents start using their rights and choose the target form they think the children should have, this is a danger to the community! I find it very worrying that parents should be able to be overruled and awarded a majority of the local government and the general population in terms of the choice of target form for their children. My question to the representative is: is it possible to give parents democratic rights as long as they vote as the political majority wants them to vote? I also ask myself what will be the next proposal to restrict the freedom and rights of parents in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1542	In the Christian People's Party, we did not support the change that the majority did for two years. We have always thought that training objectives are a matter of culture in a community, and thus are part of local democracy, in which all those who are entitled to vote in the local environment should be involved. We don't want to put an end to parents' ability to set training targets. Therefore, the rules contained in the Training Act to be able to start their own classes, their own groups, if there are many in their parents and parents who want to do so. I experience it so that here we have a cultural policy position that harmonizes well with the parents' ability to choose another training goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1549	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1552	The setting indicates that the Government has received multiples for all its proposals in the proposal. The proposals are based largely on previous decisions in Stortinget. Today is a big day for all adults who want further training. After the Workers' Party has made several suggestions to give adults the right to further training, it is now a reality that a large number of people are doing this. Yes, it's worth noting that also Right will voice for this now. One of the major problems associated with Reform 94 was the so-called scope rule. This rule was no state that could follow up in the last few years. This exceeded your adult searches. Now this is history, and Odelstinget is now taking a long step towards investing in the knowledge society. For me, it is strange that the Progress Party will still vote against such a law of the right of acquittal. The right to further training is simply an important basis for the reform of continuing education and training. About two years ago, Odelstinget debated and passed changes to the laws in relation to schooling. The right to vote was then restricted to parents of children in the school. The Labour Party then made it clear that if such a change would have negative consequences, we would return quickly and review it again. The Labour Party believes that the training goal is part of the local cultural heritage. In this sense, it is also part of local democracy. Everything suggests that since the change in the right to vote only applies to parents of children in school, there has been a great commitment to holding new hearings. From Norway's Mållag we have been informed that since 1 August last year it has been, or is to be, a hearing at 16 schools in this school year. At 13 of these schools, the training goal was neo-Norwegian before the hearing. So far, the result has been that the new witch has lost in half of these crowns. It is difficult to predict the outcome if the right of voice had been general, but there is every reason to believe that the result would have been different. Now there is a large number of people who want to go back to general voting rights, and I want to ask the Council of State that this change can be implemented as soon as possible. Another thing that is a little awkward about, is presented for change under Section 8-1. When the Labour Party intervened for the current legal formulation in 1998, this was the most effective way to ensure that people with disabilities are cared for. We know that disabled children and young people benefit greatly from being integrated into their home environment. If we are to have a common school for all, it is important that people with disabilities have this right. I'm glad the center part has now turned around in this case. The working party is engaged in securing both the elephants and the attack and bullying. Therefore, only exceptional movements of elephants with behavioral difficulties must be possible. I want to pay particular attention to elephants with Tourette's syndrome that have not been diagnosed before. This category of young people must be aware when it is stated in the law that all measures should be tried before a set of actions can be moved. There is a number that now wants to remove the predestination exception from the parallel release rule when it comes to administrative software. The Training Act states that such software should come in both new Norwegian and book goals. The provisions of the paragraph make an exception to this rule in the case of administrative software. This exemption should be temporary. Now this exception has been for a year, and now a multiple will have to rise soon. This matter is important both in terms of balancing new Norwegian and book goals and in order to give the bookmaking and newcomers the same conditions in the school. However, such a suspension of the exemption should not imply that the schools introduce an English version in order to avoid this legal property. Finally, Odelstinget today manages a series of promise changes that will affect the school day of the individual student and the individual who is now entitled to basic and further training. But in the discussion about paragraphs and dishes, we must not forget to work for a qualitatively good school for everyone, with motivated elephants, skilled teachers and pretentious schoolrooms. Promises and resources and organisation are important tools for getting such a school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1576	The concept of partial competence is not a good concept in relation to education. Many people have problems dealing with this concept, and in some cases it may be perceived as a negative label — and contribute to stigmatisation. In the statutory audit that we have today for treatment, as I understand it, the majority of people have opted to replace the concept of «competence at a lower level». It is a question of using the statutory audit to replace a bad concept with one that is even worse. As a negatively charged label, «competence at a lower level» should be evident. As we see it, sub-competence is a full competence, but one has undergone a not complete discipline. You might have picked up some subjects or parts of these subjects. The appropriate competence may not be deemed to be of inferior quality without delay or at a lower level. But it may be more specifically related to the individual subjects or parts of subjects that you have taken. So we're talking about competence in a certain bounded area. Until we find a better expression, I therefore think the concept of ‘participation’ should continue to be used. My specific question to the representative Upbeøen Hansen is: does he see any concerns about the new concept of «competence at a lower level»?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1587	My answer is yes. It is based on the fact that we have been looking for a long time to find a better way of dealing with it with the word «participation». I agree with the representative Knudsen that those who take education at a lower level than full-time vocational training, unless they have a partial competence, have a competence at the level they are trying to reach. But before we can find a word or an expression that covers this in a better way than what we do in the setting, I think that 'competence at a lower level' is good for the education that this category of elephants wants to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1593	The representative Upbeøen Hansen began by declaring that this is a great day. It must be to anticipate the times of the events; it is probably just a few hours before daylight really breaks through. But the point was good, and I particularly appreciated the fact that the representative Opbebøen Hansen agreed to the legalisation of the right to secondary education for adults as the surest proof that it is a well-founded reform. The reason why I asked for the floor was the reason given by the representative Upbeøen Hansen for the Workers' Party's eye-catching concern about the question of the language voting rules in school. When the Training Act was considered, the Workers' Party, together with the Advance Party, was the initiator of the change in the rule adopted at that time and gave the parents the right to vote. It must be allowed to ask what is the reason why the Workers' Party, after this rule has been in force for less than one year, suddenly takes the opposite position. If I understood the representative correctly, there was information from the Norwegian Target Team that had made the statement here. But it is true that giving parents the right of destination over this was part of the position of the Vogt Committee in its time that provided the basis for the relative peace of speech we have had in Norway for a few decades. Then I think it is quite remarkable that it is described as a negative effect of the change that there have been some language votes with the result the representative referred to. My question is: is there a reservation for negative effects also applicable to the new position of the Workers' Party, and will it go more than one year before you reconsider it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1602	The President reminds us of the time, and it is important that we now stay within the intended speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1605	I should be as quick as possible in the reply. Well, I think it's appropriate to mention the Right in this context when it comes to growing up their right to further training, and the proposed law that will be adopted. Because it's actually the first time that Right voices are going to legislate just after Reform 94 was proposed and introduced. When I say it's a big day, I think it's a big day for the Labour Party, which has been fighting for this issue for years. And it's like one has to go up in the morning to get to something, and it's early in the morning now. When it comes to the choice of language and the envoy that we claim to have done by the representative, the Labour Party also sees that there is a tendency that there is a great deal of commitment from the bookkeeping community to change the language of the individual school students. That exposure has arisen on the basis of that restriction that a plurality in this hall did when we treated the training law two years ago. Once the Labour Party has reviewed its perception of the cause, it's because we think it's a cultural policy matter, and it's a local democratic matter. Neither must it be in a referendum about it, for example. beer must be introduced into the shops around the municipalities, that only those who drink alcohol are allowed to be present and roast. It's a matter of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1621	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The President has reason to believe that there is now a wish that the reply should only be focused on the submissions of the Council of State. If that were to be met, at least the president for his part would be very happy for the rest of today's program.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1629	Review or wing, I don't see the big difference between the two words. The appeal Hansen started by saying that he was happy because he had been given a majority for all the Labour Party's proposals in this matter. If there's any reason to rejoice, I'm doubtful, because changes are necessary in Norwegian school, and these changes will force themselves forward. The only thing that is regrettable is that it must take more time than strictly necessary. For the time being, some children will suffer quite ruthlessly. It is also very regrettable that the Workers' Party did not have time to continue looking for a better term than partial competence, since they had been easy for so long. The Progress Party will have equality between several different schools. The promotion party does not welcome the fact that it is the parent’s economy to decide whether the children should receive a top training offer. The Progress Party cannot be the guarantor of a system based on a classed society based on political ideologies and personal economy, at least not with regard to the training of children. The progress party is based on facts when we say that people are different. It is therefore of great value to have a good family that provides security and constructive guidance. Children and young people who have such a background stand much better rusted in a complicated society because they can master in almost every situation they come up with. A variety of qualitative and economically equivalent schools will offer the best possible range of people who use their options. It is with regret that I see that both the Council of State and a majority have changed the assumptions of the decision at the Innst. O. No 92 for 1998-99. The changes concern the degree of visual impairment and freedom of choice of learning material. So it's not just in one thing you're angled, you're angled from one to the other. It is also said that you are happy that book-keeping and ninorsk students are given the same right at the same time. Yes, and I'm incredibly sorry that people who are visually impaired and blind don't get the same rights at the same time as these. With regard to the change in Section 8-1, which gives the right to move a student against the will of the student and the supervisor, the Progress Party supports the proposal, but over time calls for an investigation into the possible offer of these students in a new training situation. Today, there are students in school with diagnosis who in many cases can mean that the student is unable to benefit from traditional education and which makes the student a significant factor of concern in a learning situation. It is therefore justified to ask questions as to whether the integration idea was correct. From Nordahl Selection Cap. 3-9 I have addressed the following: ‘Knowledge of high-frequency behavioural problems in terms of anxiety and educational disturbance appears to be a ‘black hole’ in the international knowledge image. In particular, this concerns the prevention and reduction of classroom-related problem behaviour, i.e. learning and teaching-impaired behaviour.’» Translated into good Norwegian, this means that teachers and others in this field are in the blind. This cannot be supported by the Progress Party. In our opinion, the State School lacks strong professional leadership, clear rules and enforcement. Without these elements, we see that in the future, the much-mentioned welfare society has little chance of survival. I would then like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made, and I would also like to say that, if our proposals fall, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1655	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1658	I would first like to make a brief comment on the answer given by the representative Upbeøen Hansen on my question about what has led the Workers' Party to turn around 180§ on the question of the language voting rules in school. I'm going to refrain from commenting on the parallel of oily moods, for precisely the depth of that answer I have to admit that I didn't quite understand. With regard to the explanation given by the representative Oppebøen Hansen, I have to say that it seems that even more mysterious why the Workers' Party took the very opposite position when the Training Act was adopted. The only explanation we got was that the new rule had triggered significant involvement by bookkeeping people, which would probably be a bad thing. So the advantage is that the less commitment it gets, and the more rules invite you not to engage, the better it is. I think with respect to notifying the Workers' Party's previous position was significantly better than the present, and will hope that the party is able to change its perception once more. There are not many points in the setting that are the subject of this option. There is agreement on the main parts of the reform agency, including the legalisation of the right of adults to secondary education. The right was reserved when we dealt with the Training Act, that we wanted to see more detailed calculations of what this would mean. We have received those calculations, and although they are filled with considerable uncertainty, we believe that they provide a sufficient basis for adopting the reform. I'm going to assume that the estimate of 5,000 is initially a realistic estimate, well to notice, assuming that the labour market situation continues to be as positive as it is at the moment. If we have significant unemployment in the years to come, after all, demand will increase significantly and costs will increase accordingly. It is in that case a cost we must be prepared to take. At one point, the right has warned against an accidental ambiguity in the majority’s position, hopefully. This concerns the rule of granting access to the position of non-public schools. We have thought that the discrimination this invites between providers of higher education is unfortunate. And we have thought and believe that it will create significantly clearer and more tidy conditions if you treat everyone in a non-discriminatory manner and leave the privatist system the quality control of the offers given. So a brief comment on the proposal to clarify the wording of the private school law section 25. As has been said in the comment from the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, it should have been unnecessary under normal circumstances to propose such clarification of the legal text. Once the Storting has dealt with the reality of the case as late as six months ago and drawn up the guidelines for the judgement to be exercised, it should not be necessary to use the test method and clarify the legal text. However, the handling by the Council of State of a specific case, where the decision is clearly in conflict course with the opinion of the majority of the population, has made it necessary to change the wording of the law in such a way that there is no doubt as to the limits of the discretion of the Council of State. I am pleased that the Progress Party will substantially support this proposal by its vote so that we can have less controversy in the further debate on the approval of private schools. Finally, it is gratifying that the centralized approval system Norway has been virtually alone in the Western world in terms of educational materials in school. I am quite convinced that the actors, i.e. consumers, textbooks authors and publishers will be able to perform quality control in a safe manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1671	It is an important educational policy reform that we are about to adopt today. We put the preliminary finishing line here in the Stortinget for the reform of continuing education and training. We're going to legalize adults' right to primary and secondary education. It's been a while to go. On the initiative of the Swedish authorities, the Stortinget decided in February 1996 to ask the government to submit its own notification. In its decision, Stortinget stressed that the objective of the notification was, inter alia, to: should be considered to be the legal basis for continuing education. During the treatment of Innst. S. No 78 for 1998-99, a proposal from the SV and the Workers' Party to legislate on the right to secondary education was defeated. There is therefore reason to rejoice that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, will today vote in order to legislate on the right to secondary education for adults. It should also be noted that the Committee stresses that the costs of the reform in its entirety are to be borne by the State. If the right is to be effective, the county councils need to develop different training provision for adults. The same applies insofar as the primary municipality also applies in the case of primary school provision. It is not enough to provide places for the regular training provided for 16-19-year-olds. Compact offers must be made for adults. The workplace must become the learning venue, training institutions must, in cooperation with the workplaces, make special training provision. Distance learning using old and new technologies will be a good and timely offer for many. An extended offer of individual rates must be made, for example in the evening. We have to be mindful that adults will combine work with training. The right is not satisfied by the provision of normal day-time class education with a duration of more than three years as for young people. I regret that the Labour Party Committee's votes in the legislative text opens up the possibility for others to be providers. I don't think the Council of State was aware of what he was doing by proposing that the information organisations and distance learning organisations could do the work for the county council. This was like manna for the Right and Advance Party, which also got the Christian People's Party and the Center Party to extend this to also apply in general. This means that private educational institutions should be able to be providers on behalf of the county. This is a step towards privatisation. Here, private actors are going to do the job for the county council, and it's a step in the wrong direction. SV will therefore vote against the third section of the proposal for a new section 4A-4. We are now also going to legislate a new level of education in trade unions. This is also a follow-up to a proposal for which we received a majority when dealing with the Inst. S. No 246 for 1998-99 on secondary education. It is important that the Committee makes a clarification in relation to the proposal. We stress that this should be a course of education that will also provide the basis for lasting work. It is the county municipality, together with the social partners, that is to select and define the curriculum objectives to be included in the training cycle. This is an important reform for all those who are struggling to reach professional status during the reference period. The law now legitimises that it is fully acceptable to plan a race adapted to the individual's abilities and prerequisites and, once the course is completed, to provide competence in the labour market. This is an important handshake for anyone who is struggling either because of lack of motivation or because of professional problems. The secondary school is also for them and it is permitted to plan a course which is not to lead to professional status or to study competence. With the Appendix to Section 8-1, a fundamental change is made to the right to attend secondary school. It should now be possible to move a student against the will of the student and the parents. We in SV acknowledge that there may be situations where a student represents a problem for a class or a group, but we believe that this must and must be resolved within the school. The working party, together with SV, was a driver to crush the principle of the right to attend the secondary school, when we dealt with the law two years ago. We have to recognize that unacceptable behavior can be a response on the part of a student to a learning environment that does not take enough into account the student. It's going to be wrong if the school's reaction is to expel the student or find an alternative training site away from the secondary school. We therefore oppose this Appendix to the new Section 8-1. The majority would like to weaken the competence requirements of those who are required to teach adults. We're sorry about that. We think it's a wrong signal to say that there should be other skills requirements, even if this is on the purely pedagogical competence of those who are going to teach adults, and those who are going to teach 16-19-year-olds. So we're also going to go against the second sentence of Section 4A-5. I expect the President to add up to a vote that will allow us to vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1694	The President has noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1698	Several speakers have underlined that there is broad agreement on the main lines of the setting. That's also my opinion, so I'll comment on some points on behalf of the left. With regard to the issue of opening up to other providers to ensure that this reform is implemented, I think the representative of Reikvam went well when he called this a privatisation. We have state secondary schools in parts of the country -- I assume they won't fall under the privatisation concept -- we have folk colleges that can give delec exams, and we have Bjørns, who, according to my knowledge, have driven to pick up more and more of those who stayed on the platform when Reform 94 drove by, so that the formulations here open up more practical possibilities. The county councils are responsible for what is elected. I believe that the various formulations and proposals that have been promoted on target forms are, in practice, also an important cultural policy mark. The rules on voting rights shall apply for the first time in the case of target voting rights. I am pleased that the Workers' Party has followed up the reservation they themselves took – and as the representative Uppebøen Hansen pointed out – based on the experience they have. I would also like to refer to the Committee's formulations on the task of providing administrative software according to a specific timetable, and also to ensure that the Stortinget regains practical plans and assessments on how to follow up with parallel learning materials, which are essential elements of the curriculum in terms of teaching materials other than those printed. As far as the private school law is concerned, I should say nothing more than that what is in the committee position is adequate. There it is clearly described why the Left stands with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Center Party on this. I am also pleased that the Progress Party can vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the proposal. In this article I will carefully comment on a couple of other aspects. Twelve hours ago, Stortinget addressed the setting of an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. In the committee setting, we have been away in two ways – in different ways and in a broad sense – creating unrest. One of the questions concerns the possibility for a student not to attend secondary school when specific conditions so warrant. I think it's a social reality that it's like this. I have visited so many schools myself that I know that teachers are making the most of their efforts. I also know that in many, many cases you will be able to do it with good resources and skills in the vicinity of the school. But there are situations where it doesn't work, and in those situations, in my opinion, it would be a clear advantage for the student to move to another place, but with a commitment. Another aspect of this has completely different overtones. The Committee comments on violence at school. In parts of the country, there is an increasing problem. It's violence that turns out to be against teachers. After a letter from the Riksadvokat, violence against teachers can be reported by the school management or by the school establishment in the municipality. It would be desirable for uniform guidelines to be established for the whole country in this respect, and for violence against students from other students to also be responded to, so that guidelines and final legal clarification are provided that both the school administration and the school administration can follow this up. You never have to risk being left alone with the weakest party. It's the safest way to make sure that a violent episode evolves even worse and creates a bullying environment, no matter what else creates bullying and how the bullying activity works. The Committee has also chosen to address the issue of cross-border schools. A very conscious formulation has been chosen when the Council of State is asked to come back with concrete measures ‘to support the community school in a viable local environment’. In it it is that not all the local environment is. But there are probably quite a number of local environments that experience losing school for reasons other than those that may be related to the struggle for municipal economy. There's some sort of corporate economic hazard going on across the country, where some people think it's purely automatic in putting things together – and you get some sort of rationalization gain from it. In particular: those cases are particularly important that the economy is not made an ideology far from being a tool. Not least from the Church, Education and Research Committee – which has deep respect for the fact that education represents an institution and not a sector, as social economists would like to express it – this is a very clear mark. And of course, it's a great pleasure for me as a big representative to know that another representative, who is a social economist, has contributed to this general public information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1717	I am pleased with the committee's consideration of this odelstningsproposition. In substance, the Committee has joined the proposals promoted by the Government. It is important and gratifying that an overall committee agrees on the main features of the skills reform, where primary and secondary education for adults are key elements. I have noticed that the Committee has stressed that the right to primary education for adults also includes those who, because of illness or injury, need to be re-trained at primary school. The new legal chapter 4A also covers this group, and I agree that this must be followed up well by the municipalities. The framework for primary and secondary education is based on the needs of adults for flexible solutions, solutions to combine studies with other commitments that adults often have in relation to employers, families and an active social life. Adults usually know what they are interested in studying, and it is therefore important that they receive offers that correspond to their specific needs. The use of ICT will include: be an effective means of making offers flexible and adapted. A majority of the Committee has referred to previous decisions of the Stortinget that students being trained under the direction of study associations should have their student status and positions. I can confirm that the Department is working on the revision of the regulations, and that the question will be addressed there. Similarly, it is gratifying that the Stortinge joins the proposals for changes concerning ordinary secondary education. It is proposals that have previously been discussed in Stortinget during the discussion of St.meld. No 32 for 1998-99, Higher education, where there has been a high degree of consensus on the proposals for amendments. My hope is that the changes will make higher education even better for today's and tomorrow's youth. The proposal proposes the introduction of the right to be trained in point writing for highly impaired and blind students. They shall also be able to extend the right to training for up to two years. I have recorded that in addition to this, the Committee wants to provide students with the right to training in and in sign language with the right to two years of advanced education. I agree that there may often be a need for extra time for training for these students, without going the way of a new expert assessment. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party stress that they have noticed over time an increase in violence, crime, bullying and unrest in school. In order to gain knowledge of the educational environment in school, the Ministry took the initiative in 1996 to study the experience and views of teachers in the living and learning environment. The results of this study, carried out by Terje Ogden, do not suggest that the problems of school unrest and violence are increasing. As the Council of State, however, I take the problems of unrest and fighting in school very seriously. Good learning requires a good school environment, which both students and teachers are entitled to. During the previous Council of State, Lilletun, an independent working group was set up to assess, on a researchable basis, different programmes targeting the school with a view to improving the learning and learning environment. The work of that group has just been submitted to the Ministry and the recommendation of the report will now be further assessed. I will address the challenges we face in an open and non-prejudiced way, and consider different instruments that may be suitable for ensuring a good working environment for all those associated with the school. I also refer to the educational policy statement that I held back for a while, where I announced that I would look at the overall learning and working environment in school. I am pleased that the Committee agrees to repeal the State approval system for textbooks. It is in line with the Government's policy of giving municipalities and county municipalities greater freedom to decide how the training is to be carried out. I have also noted the proposal for the approval of the glossary and the parallelity requirement for administrative software, and will of course follow it up. However, I would like to remind you that the tearing up of technical progress and the importance of students and teachers having to use the most up-to-date software, sets limits. It would be problematic if demand for software in neo-Norwegian practice would put an end to students’ opportunities to participate in ICT developments in Norwegian. I am convinced that we will be able to combine those considerations in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1745	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1748	As the Council of State pointed out, and as previous speakers have also pointed out, there is a broad consensus on the vote, and I think the statements of the Council of State were very good in relation to the committee's position. I was particularly pleased with what the Council of State said about primary education after illness and injury and the obligation of the municipalities for the group to which this applies. In fact, in the current training law, this group is specifically specified in the legal text. It is important to keep up with this area in the future, and I have to say that I am satisfied with what the Council of State said here, and is counting on his vigilance. However, the Council of State chose not to comment on the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, and to which the Progress Party has notified subsidiary aid, on the clarification of the private school law in relation to the approval of fresh schools. I take it as a matter of course that the Council of State will base the same judgement and the same principles that the majority now establish in the law, and I will ask the Council of State to confirm that he will also base that understanding on his exercise of law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1755	I am pleased that the representative Lyngstad is pleased that I have joined the committee that said about the right to training also for those who are prevented because of illness and injury. When it comes to the question of what the representative Lyngstad calls the boarding schools, and what I call the private schools, the Council of State will, of course, base the decision of the Stortinget on the amendment of the law that is now taking place. This is not a new debate, it goes back to a proposal that the Labour Party had with the opposite sign in the Storting for a time, which was not adopted. Now the opposite of what the Workers' Party proposed at the time, you actively get into the law what the Storting at the time laid down. In this way, there is nothing new in itself, but it is now written in the law that you cannot unilaterally base the number of students in a municipality on the judgement, and that of course the Council of State will also use in its discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1762	Full card: The council said that adults usually know what they want, and that's quite correct. Just as the statement relates to the concerns of the Progress Party in saying yes to the right to secondary education for adults. When adults know what they want, and we have limited school places, limited by apprenticeship places – limitations mostly here – we have to ask the question how the majority think this is going to be solved. Will the youth — the ordinary students of rights — have their second or third choice when we know that adult life will not accept to be dictated? And if children and young people have to take what is left, this will quickly lead to a costly training offer because new courses will be sought by these children and young people as continuing training in the future. On this basis, we do not view this as an alpha and omega and something that leads us into the future. It will lead a dying race into a better future, but it will hardly give students of the right between 16 and 19 years the great fuss to enter the labour market with the flag to the top. And as long as the majority have not come up with anything concrete about how to solve this, other than that they repeat what they have done with higher education – they increase the volume and lower the quality to make room for more people to dampen unemployment – we cannot agree to it. But I would very much like the Council of State, if he has the opportunity to do so now, to deepen this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1769	This possibility has the Council of State, thanks to the Evje question. Students between the ages of 16 and 19 have their rights in place. 95 pst. by the students, their first choice is met. That court stands by law. Looking at those who are over 19 years old as a dying race, as the representative Evje refers to them as here, one might rightly claim, but from there to say that they too should not be given the opportunity to take the higher education that the amendment that is being passed today entails, is perhaps a slow step. I don't see any contrast between giving all adults the opportunity to take secondary education and at the same time taking care of the opportunities of people with rights. Now it's part of the story that the Progress Party was also opposed to the Storting decision to give students between 16 and 19 years of age the right to secondary education, so there's a certain consistency in the Evje's argument. But I think society as a whole, and every human being, serves to give you the opportunity to go to higher education. We serve on it as individuals, we serve on the economy as a society – and we serve on the whole. Of course, people with rights between 16 and 19 years of age and adults are not given the same type of offer. On the contrary, we have argued that adults should have an organized offer adapted to their working situation and family situation – they have other responsibilities and a different family situation. I think it is fully possible to take care of those considerations while giving young people the opportunity to take secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1778	I noticed with interest the Council's response to the representative Lyngstad regarding the clarification of the wording of the private school law. I also noticed that he stressed that he was aware that this really does not represent anything new, but is the same position that the bulk of the population expressed in the Inn. S. No 29 for 1999-2000. Then it is close to asking if it was entirely deliberate that the Council of State in the handling of the Songdalen appeal chose to act across the expressed interpretation of the law by the majority of the population. Is it to be perceived that the Council of State has almost asked for clarification of the legal text and is pleased that it is clarified in the way that the majority is doing today? My second question to the Council of State relates to the section on the right to receive credit. On a written question by the representative Løvik in March of this year, the Council of State replied that he would shortly make a legislative proposal on changes to the Training Act, such as: ‘between others, the right to be trained in Braille for blind and severely impaired elephants is proposed. In the same proposition, I will also mention the educational tool situation for font users.’ I guess it's true that the learning material situation is mentioned in the proposition. On the other hand, there is a great need for the problem to be solved. I have been informed by the Huseby Competence Centre that they expect that up to 70 pst. by blind and highly debilitated students at school this year will be in the situation where there is no satisfactory learning material. Can the Council of State now give a concrete answer to the question he referred to later treatment? Will there be satisfactory offers to this group at school this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1790	The representative's salary asks if I am pleased with the change in the law that is now taking place, or the clarification of the wording of the private school law that the majority of the population now makes, according to everything to judge. No, this council is not happy about that, this council would have preferred the Stortinget to adopt what the Workers' Party proposed, namely, that when the establishment of private schools threatens cross-border schools, one should have it as a basis to say no to the establishment of private schools. The Stortinget has already said no to that. It was voted down when the Workers' Party proposed it. In particular, I regret that a party such as the Center Party, which very often markets itself as a party of the districts, is still involved in a decision that facilitates the setting up of cross-border schools, facilitates the setting-up of schools in the districts – and thus probably also helps to make it more difficult to live in the districts. So my answer to the question from the representative's pay is: No, unfortunately, I would rather have joined the Labour Party's policy at that point. But that's nothing new, because we've had that debate in Stortinget in the past. The fact that the Storting now in a way adopts in the form of law the same as the Stortinget has previously said, and as this Council of State has also previously said from the Parliament's pulpit, he has understood that the Stortinget has said, is nothing new. However, there is nothing positive for this Council of States. But of course, a government council would be wise to follow the decision of the Storting, and I will do so in this matter as well. Then to the punctuation question. The law that we are now adopting gives us the right to be trained in bitmap writing. We get a statutory right to that. Of course, that right must be made real by the fact that textbooks and material are in place at the beginning of the school year. I cannot give guarantees from this pulpit. The only guarantee I can give to the representative is that I will do what I can to ensure that the learning material is in place when the school year starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1799	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 650]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1815	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1829	I'm going to be very short, as it's so late as well. It's always a very difficult consideration whether to enter or oppose the use of forced pay. Reasons may be given that the parties to a negotiation are obliged to deduct the independent responsibility they have for finding pay agreements. But at the same time, it is also important to remember that most negotiations find their solution without our involvement. The use of compulsory pay terms is exceptional and is only used when health and life are at risk. Int. O. No 99 are all lots behind the use of compulsory pay terms, except SV. In the next case, Innst. O. No 100, there's a unanimous committee behind the use of forced pay. Both cases are based on ongoing assessments by the State Health Authority and the advice provided by the State’s own professional body. These councils have, respectively, a majority and a unanimous committee understanding that in a difficult situation, the Government cannot overcome it. Therefore, very briefly: the settings are recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1840	It is true that we have assessed these two matters differently. We believe that in the case of Norwegian Health and Social Unions, there was no basis for using forced arbitration, so we go against this. We have looked at this, we have also been in contact with the organisation, and based on an overall assessment, we believe that health and life were not at risk. For this reason, we believe that it was wrong to use forced arbitration in this case. That is why we are voting against this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1845	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1859	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 657]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1873	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 658]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1887	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 659]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1901	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 660]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1909	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1980	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1988	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e1994	Twelve proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Asmund Kristoffersen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 3, by Asmund Kristoffersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 4, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Advancement Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 5, from Are Næss on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 6, from Are Næss on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 7-9, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party, 10 and 11, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 12, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The President will first deal with proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to contribute to the transformation of all public hospitals into public limited liability companies.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The new law on the transformation of hospitals into a limited liability company shall be replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2077	The President will first vote on proposal No. 10, from Right, to Section 1. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act of County Hospital Associations, etc. Section 1 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2162	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act of County Hospital Associations, etc. Section 7 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2199	For the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act of County Hospital Associations, etc. the following provisions shall be added:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2244	The President will vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, to Section 10. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2371	There is an aberrant proposal here, proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2533	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, i.e. the proposal under Section 30. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2667	For the first sentence of the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, i.e. the proposal under Section 43. The proposal reads as follows: «In the Act of County Hospital Associations, etc. Paragraph 43, first subparagraph, first sentence, shall be replaced by the following:The county hospital or part of such activity may be transferred to a county hospital company by law here by transferring assets, rights, including government permits, and obligations relating to the establishment to the hospital company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2797	The President will first vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right, to Section 2-1 new fourth paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2828	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2873	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2892	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to the heading of Chapter 4. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chapter 4 is entitled ‘Approval of health institutions and health services and prohibition of the organisation of public hospitals owned as a public limited liability company’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2908	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party and the Right, to Section 4-1, third paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. Section 4-1, third paragraph, shall be replaced by the following:In assessing whether the authorisation can be granted, consideration may be given, inter alia, to professional reasons for approving the health institution or healthcare and to the adequacy of the services to be provided.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2924	It is then voted on the following three proposals for § 4-2: First of proposal No. 12, by the Socialist Left Party, then by proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and finally on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2952	The President has understood that the Socialist Left will now draw his proposal for § 4-3. - It's confirmed. Proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. Paragraphs 4 to 2 shall be replaced by the following: Approval of the conversion of a hospital into a legal entity of its own.Constitutional decision to transfer a hospital or part of a hospital to an intermunicipal company, a limited liability company or other legal entity must be approved by the Ministry before the transfer can be made. Such decisions shall be submitted by the county to the ministry for approval.The assessment of whether authorisation is to be granted may, inter alia, focus on social considerations. Such conditions may be set for approval which the Ministry deems necessary in order to safeguard the social interests and to enable the county to fulfil its obligations under this Act and under its provisions.The county council shall inform the Ministry of substantial changes in the activities which may alter the conditions of approval. which is entrusted to the undertaking provides the information necessary to assess whether authorisation is to be granted, including transparency of the file. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e2980	Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law on specialist health services, etc. Paragraphs 4 to 2 are replaced by the following:The prohibition on the organisation of publicly owned hospitals as a limited liability companyPublicly owned hospitals cannot be organised as a limited liability company under the law of 13 June 1997 No. 44 concerning limited liability companies or law of 13 June 1997 No 45 on public limited-liability companies.’;» The Socialist Left has warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3021	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3029	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3039	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3045	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3104	The President here will vote on the proposal of the Progress Party to Sections 8 to 51. The proposal reads:‘In the Law of 28 February 1997 No. 19 on public security is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3260	Here the Progress Party has warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3306	Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3440	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3448	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3455	During the debate, Mr G. Fossum, on behalf of the Labour Party, put forward a proposal and it was included in the vote on pages 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3463	An alternative is to vote between the suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3595	During the debate, Mr G. Fossum, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, put forward a proposal and it was included in the vote on page 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3622	The President will first vote on the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left to the Cash Support Act. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 41 on cash support for young children’s parents is amended as follows: [[Law on cash support]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3643	It is then voted over the setting. It's the Workers' Party and the Right behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3653	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative of the Bastesen will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3665	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3714	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3722	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3729	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3794	I ask that the vote be taken again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3801	If that's desirable, we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e3985	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they are going against the seventh paragraph, the first and second sentences, and it is going to vote first over these.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4184	The Socialist Left Party has announced that it is going against the fifth paragraph, the first and second sentences, and it is going to vote first above this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4300	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4308	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4315	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right President, first of all takes up proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative to transform the public occupational pension schemes into net schemes so that any changes in public security affect everyone’.» The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Before we go to voting on the vote, the President will vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Ot. pp. No 64 is returned to the Government for Impact Assessment.’;» [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4364	The President has understood that the Progress Party here wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4374	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. Does the Progress Party wish to vote against this? It is confirmed that the Progress Party wishes to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4388	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4395	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Vidar Bjørnstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3-6, by Jan Simonsen on behalf of the Progress Party The President first takes note of the proposals. 2, 4, 5, and 6. Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up and launch an offer to convicted sexual offenders under settlement/security of voluntary chemical castration and to provide guidance on how such treatment can be carried out.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that child abuse should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals that allow persons convicted of serious sexual assault against minors to be required to undergo medical treatment before they leave prison after an end of residence/detention.’ [[throwing]] Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes or to implement regulatory changes so that persons convicted of serious sexual assault against minors lose access to prison leave if they are not subject to medical treatment.’ The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4577	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to the second paragraph, the introductory part, which reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4618	In the case of the second paragraph of Section 192, the introductory part, the proposal of the Party of Advancement is first contested.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4628	The Committee's position on the second paragraph of Section 192, the introductory part, and the proposal of the Workers' Party, are then replaced by an alternative. The Progress Party wishes to subsidize the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4640	The remainder of the second paragraph of Section 192 and the third paragraph are then voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4648	It is then voted on the fourth paragraph of Section 192. Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4719	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, to the second sentence of the first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4746	The proposal for the second sentence of the first paragraph is then put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4756	Then, alternately, between the Committee's setting up the second sentence of the first paragraph and the proposal of the Workers' Party. The Progress Party wants to support the suspension subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4768	Alternatively, between the Committee's position on the second paragraph, the introductory part, and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4778	The other letters and the paragraphs of the paragraph are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4899	The progressing party has announced that they are going against the second paragraph. It's going to add up to this first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e4974	The first sentence of the second subparagraph is accompanied by an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5018	There is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5064	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5300	The position of the Committee on B, C, and D shall be to send the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5310	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5347	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5355	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5361	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 – 8, from Ursula Evje on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, and the Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a correction mechanism in order to increase the predictability of the municipality in setting up private schools.’ Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification of changes in teacher training. The changes shall relate to knowledge of prevention of anxiety by the use of different methods according to the specific nature of the individual child. Methodological knowledge shall also be developed to read disagreements leading to the use of violent methods in school.The new disciplines are assumed to be of such a nature that they can be evaluated and modified by simple means if the evaluation reveals weaknesses in relation to legitimacy based on ethics and credibility.» Proposal No. 7, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement human rights in Norwegian training legislation as soon as possible, in order to meet Norway’s international obligations and § 110c of the Constitution.’ Proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an overall training law providing freedom and equality of opportunity by establishing and using alternative qualitative training provision regardless of life views and alternative pedagogics. The key element must be Norway’s desire to comply with and implement human rights in all Norwegian legislation.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5454	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5536	In the second sentence of the fifth paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, the second sentence of the second paragraph of Section 3-1 of the Sixth Paragraph is replaced by the following:The County may require expert judgement if such assessment is not previously made and specific circumstances warrant it.’ The President will draw attention to the fact that this proposal concerns the fifth paragraph and not the sixth paragraph, as stated in the proposal list. Alternatively, the second sentence of the fifth paragraph of the suspension shall be replaced by the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5588	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5886	The party of progress has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5918	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they're going to the second term, and it's going to vote first above this term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e5945	The Socialist Left Party has warned that they're going to go to the first term, the second sentence, and it's only going to vote above this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6041	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6141	The President will first vote on proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, to Section 3. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In private spherenova, Section 3 is replaced by the following: In order to be recognised as eligible under this Act, the school must provide an education meeting the requirements of elementary school training and continuing training in the Training Act in a manner equivalent to those given in public schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6183	The President will vote on two proposals for Section 25, first on proposal No. 5. by the Progress Party, and then by proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Right Party, the Center Party, and the Left Party. The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘In private spherenova, Section 25 is replaced by the following: The competent department shall grant approval in cases where the school meets the requirements of this Act.The Ministry may withdraw the approval if the conditions of this Act are not fulfilled within a time limit set by the Ministry.The Ministry shall notify the Stortinget every year of the approval of schools.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6205	The proposal from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left reads: ‘In private spherelova, § 25 nr. 3 new second sentence is replaced by the following:In the case of schools seeking approval under §3a or b, no unilateral emphasis shall be placed on the reduction in the number of pupils for the municipality in the overall assessment.» The Progress Party has notified that it supports this proposal in a subsidized manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6255	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6263	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6277	The position of the Committee on B and C shall be to send the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6319	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6327	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6357	The Socialist Left Party has announced their opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6365	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6373	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6408	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6416	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6595	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6603	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6631	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6639	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6680	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-lower-2.ana.ud2274e6688	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
