ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e56	Honourable co-representatives! Aud Gustad's ex-husband is dead, 83 years old. Aud Gustad was born on 1 May 1917 in Trondheim. After completing her education, she worked as a journalist in New Time in Trondheim. She then worked as a telephone operator, office assistant and bookstore before she started working as a county secretary in Trøndelag, department of the Landsföreningen für Herte- und Pungesyke. Aud Gustad met as alternate representative of the Socialist Left Party from 1973 until she moved up as a representative at Kai Överland's death in 1975. Until 1977 she was a member of the Social Committee. She had a number of responsibilities in parties, organizations and associations. She also took on more public duties. Gustad was an alternate member and a member of Trondheim City Board from 1972 to 1977. Aud Gustad was a cross through social man. She was positive and always used the present as a backcloth to look forward. She was also a completely political person, and she was a convinced socialist. They weak in society were always target group for her work, in her profession and in her political work. She was always well oriented, worked very focused and always seemed inspiring to those with whom she worked. She had done a lot of things, and you could often wonder where she took the cancers from her whole life to some serious health problems. Despite her poor health, she always had a good mood and surplus, something that infected others. Aud Gustad was a fellow human being in the very best sense of the word. We remember Aud Gustad and shine peace over her memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e76	The representative of Ingvald Godal, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Tron Erik Hovind, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Central Party Group on the Extension of the Permit of the Representative Ola D. Glacier until 19 May. by Mr Godal and Mr Gundersen on leave of 18 and 19 May – both to attend the meeting of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Lisbon. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André Kukkestad.For Hedmark County: Ida Marie Løvlien.For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen.3. Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e144	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that the speakers who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e155	Regional and district policy, too, must be both willful and willful. We live in the societies of opportunity and in a peaceful corner of the world, and we have a huge social security network. The vast majority of us have more than enough, actually more than we need. So it's going to be a paradox that we're raising ourselves more above those who have a lot than above those who have little. It's through social criticism we've brought society forward, and the results of the social critique have made us have living settlements, districts and cities. But we can't live on old victories. It is important to include in the debate on good rural and regional policy that there is also: Good health policy. A large proportion of free resources in the municipal sector are used for health purposes. Good education policy. A large proportion of free resources in the municipal sector go for school and education purposes. A good regional and regional policy is good nutrition and transport policy. A well-developed road network and other communications facilitate business and housing in all regions. Good regional and regional policies are good environmental policies. It is in the local regions that the management of the local environment is taking place. It is where the basis for good management of natural resources is laid. Good rural and regional policies are also good agricultural policies. Cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre on this is a good contribution to living people and an important foundation for rural policy. It is also important to focus on innovation and skills development. Decentralised places of study and opportunities for continuing education play an important role here. In addition, it is important to facilitate more entrepreneurs and, in particular, women should be encouraged to establish their own business. Just one small example: Three and a half years ago, the representative Erna Solberg and I were on a study trip in the United States to study why women established so well. Good over 60 pst. of the new establishments in the United States were started by women. The average size is 20 employees. Dad's money, man's money, his own credit and pledge of everything they owned, were different starting options. Irrespective of this, over 50 pst lived. by the holdings after five years of operation. Why? They were assisted in the establishment phase of older business people, men, so-called mentors. They had their own advisory groups in the start-up phase, and also when they started making money, they got help from public service offices, and perhaps the most important thing – the attitudes the environment met them with, the local environment was happy about them. I'm not as sure that we experience the same attitude here. I'm guessing it's better to look at how long it's going before it's smack. Schools can do much more to create entrepreneurial spirit in young people. It should be a challenge that we take. But we also need to organise even more through the established schemes, such as rural development funds and SND, in order to achieve our objectives. Over the past 40 to 50 years, Norway has undergone fundamental changes in almost all areas. Where we've done the least, is within the municipal structure. So it's standing still. Voluntary community mergers need to be stimulated and regional cooperation strengthened. There's money in it. Renewal of the public sector is one of the main objectives of the Government, and really all parties have said this. The renewal does not come without the income of municipalities being increased, but at the same time we have to make demands for both the organisation and use of money. When the Government is committed to reducing government governance and earmarking of funds, it can contribute to more efficient resource use and increased local autonomy. The point is that public space must be adapted to individual needs. Technological developments make it possible for Utsira to be as close to Europe as Oslo. I have expectations of an active state location policy. Electronic offices are one tool, shifting workplaces another. The slogan ‘By and land, hand in hand’ has a responsibility to give life to. The slogan may be extended to ‘By and Country — Norway and other countries’. We must now be very vigilant to draw more attention to the past than to the present and the future. Looking forward through a car window, you see that the windscreen is larger, and it's not without a reason. The future is where we're going to be the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e207	It is stated in the Workers' Party's statement that a competitive business life is crucial for rural settlements. Of course that's what it's important. But what does it do when the Workers' Party pursues a tax and tax policy that is in practice destructive to the competitive framework conditions of business, especially in the districts? The peculiar charges on means of transport and fuel are a handicap for district-based businesses with long transport distances. We get a lot of letters from workers' party rapporteurs out in the districts asking to bring down the diesel taxes. Transport is expensive in Norway, and it is actually an analysis that clearly shows that timber transport is 35 pst. more expensive in Norway than in Sweden and Finland due, inter alia, to: the specific level of fees. On diesel, for example, there are: 40 pst. higher rates in Norway than in Sweden and Finland. The question then is, does the Workers' Party have any thoughts about harmonising the level of taxes in this area in order to create just the competitive business they say is so crucial for rural settlements? This party never talks about this in these presentations and when they keep posts from this pulpit. I would like an answer to that right now. In the eyes of the Labour Party, what does the charging policy mean for transport from districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e212	With regard to the fees, which the representative Andersen was concerned about, and in particular the diesel tax, I am not going to disclose what is being revised on Friday. But I would be very surprised if there was a big difference between the Diesel Fee of the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, to put it this way. So when it comes to that particular part, I think the arguments of the Progress Party will mute something. But what might be more interesting to discuss, but as the Progress Party has very little desire to talk about, is the Progress Party's role in public space. If you look at what the Progress Party is proposing of measures in the public sector, and then I am ignoring health, because there are quite good ones, but in all other areas, it is not very easy reading, neither the Progress Party's programme nor the budget setting, when you see what they're cutting off public action. In addition, if tax policy is included in the Advance Party, there will be little money left for redistribution. So the question of the harmonisation of charges. It's a big debate. But I just want to remind you of one thing: what we include in the fuel tax and diesel tax is approximately. NOK 15 billion. If it is to be removed, it has to be replaced by something else. Then my question is, where are we going to collect that money in order to be able to redistribute to well-being goods, which we all talk about, and which are all talking about that we have too little of? I don't think the Progress Party and the Workers' Party will agree on fiscal policy. I do not overlook the fact that it is possible to make any adjustments, and perhaps revised, coming to Friday, will ease something on the appeal points.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e221	The representative of Brørby was concerned that we had to develop a good regional policy. In the opinion of the College of Governors on 10 April this year, entitled ‘Norway needs a strong political level between the municipalities and the state’, the rapporteurs say, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Regional self-development and mobilization — anchored in regional policy governance — are important for meeting the new challenges of society’. It is therefore a prerequisite that county municipalities have the power to meet these societal challenges. They go on to say, ‘The responsibility for governance must be enshrined in the Regional Assembly of the People’s Party, and the financial instruments must follow their administrative responsibilities. ... This means that the county must take over all political tasks at regional level’ — while the county and other regional states have control and oversight tasks. Furthermore, ‘Transfer of tasks, responsibilities and power to the regional level may take place within the current municipal and county divisions. ... However, any initiative for the establishment of larger counties must come from the counties of the county, either alone or in cooperation with neighbouring counties. The process must be carried out in close cooperation with the municipalities.’» Does the Labour Party share the views and thoughts of the rapporteurs in this opinion of April this year, or does it want large regions dictated by the central powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e240	The representative of Ivar Østberg was concerned with the future role of the county council and referred to an opinion of the county rapporteurs. I think it would be very'stupid', excuse the expression, or at least unfortunate that we get a discussion about the states versus the regions, because the regions will also consist of states. We must not forget that dimension. But the whole point of discussing the scheme in larger regions is that we are going to have greater freedom of action in those regions for the benefit of the population. We're going to get much better use of resources, and we're going to get a much bigger service offer for the population of that region. So I think it's way too early to take the step all the way out and say that the states are going to be gone. But it is important that we now take some further steps to look at the development of the counties and the role of the county council, because we know that there is an unnecessary bureaucracy in the county councils versus the role of the county council. It's a lot of double work we have to clean up in order to get more money out for service production for the benefit of those living in the regions. I also believe that if we get to larger regions, it will counter one-sided relocation to the largest cities. This is, in fact, a trend that we see in Europe, as the Minister of State also explained in his statement. It is a development that has taken place in the EU countries for a long time and on which we have started a discussion. I actually think it would be unfortunate that we kind of put the states up against a regional discussion, because I think a lot of service production can get better if we simplify and improve the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e247	The previous exchange of lines may also have to take into account the fact that the discussion about the county councils now concerns the enlarged areas of the county councils in such a way that the local autonomy of the primary municipalities is actually weakened, that there is not only a debate about the relationship between the county and the state, but also a debate on the actual size of the local autonomy and responsibility of the primary municipalities. So now Berit Brørby has revealed that a few years ago she and I were on a trip to the United States, studying women in American business. It was an exciting trip. It informed that women are going to be the dynamic force in the development of almost all industrialised societies in the years to come, too. And it's an essential perspective to have. But I believe that sometimes – and I also think that some of the district policy statements we have had in the past have been influenced – are too much focussed on new start-ups and new jobs to come, and too little focus on how we maintain the jobs that we actually have, even in the districts and not least in relation to women. This is primarily about the framework conditions that exist. And if we look at both Norwegian development potential and existing jobs for women in District Norway, perhaps the tourism industry is the absolute largest industry to which very many women's jobs in the private sector are linked. Almost all other women's jobs are linked to the public sector. Then it is crucial how we will deal with these jobs in the future, because we also know that it is the district travel industry that has the lowest profit margins of the whole industry in Norway. And then there is one important question that needs to be asked to the Workers' Party now: When further work is done on the VAT reform, will the Workers' Party expand the service area both for the transport industry and for the tourism industry? An answer is needed; it is largely about the majority of female jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e256	I disagree with Solberg's representative when she says it's the municipalities that are losing out on us developing the regions. In fact, I believe that both the municipalities, the regions and the counties serve as less detailed management of the state. It will give them greater freedom of action; it will give them greater interest not least in operating local policies. But it can't just be that we're e.g. removes a number of earmarked grants, increases the freedom of action of municipalities and counties. It must also be followed up with more money. And to the extent that the Right will contribute to the local government getting more money, it would be a pleasure day, because in case it would be something new. As regards the framework conditions for other matters and the VAT issues raised by the representative of Solberg, the previous government has been working on the VAT reform for a long time. Our government is working on it now, and will provide a comprehensive VAT presentation. But it's going to be that you're going to assume a reversal of the VAT system. As it is today, a number of things are exempt from VAT. I think you have to have a different starting point now, that everything has to be covered by VAT, and then you take the exceptions. Whether that would affect what the representative of Solberg is concerned about is far too early to say, but I think that the entire VAT system now requires a new review.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e264	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e267	The arrangement we got from the state council Brustad last Thursday, I will characterize as a strangely good script for a 17th May speech that we could all have put behind us – it was just changing the name and government, so it would be possible – lots of fine words, lots of nice formulations about how fun and well we're going to get it in this country, just we do the right things. But the right things were not mentioned in a word. There was nothing concrete about it. We kept getting to the right that we're going to come back to this, it's a big message that's going to come – probably instead of a deal – next year. But we've got a recording today that's a new thing, that's that Prime Minister Stoltenberg of the VG today says that now he's going to put down the county council. And then I'll say welcome from this pulpit. He's at least sure of a plural in this room for that to happen. The councils were in the midst of a need for renewal, and built up their distribution over three points – it was the renewal of the public sector, it was strong regions, and it was a competitive business. I'll try to follow that disposition. Public sector renewal: the Council of State said that service provision should be equivalent. How would you do that? The Council of State didn't say anything about that. I mean, an equivalent service offer can't get unless you create a system where you get a similar supply across the country, regardless of the municipal economy, regardless of where in the country you had to go. And then I can't see that there's any other way to do it than that the state assumes the financial responsibility for health, care and education. Then we get the shortage – inequalities that we must have in this country – through all other sectors, where the municipalities can stand free to facilitate, organise the community and participate. The Council of State said, ‘We need to think again and see if we can use resources better’. Yeah, that sounds great. But then I thought it was strange that there was no new idea of how the government council and the Labour Party would use the resources in a better way. Why wasn't there a word about outsourcing competition? Denmark, Sweden and New Zealand have tried this, and it turns out that this is possible. I imagine a competition between public and private service providers that can give us the opportunity to ensure the welfare of everyone, the same where we had to live and without regard to the municipal economy. And not least, we want to ensure the quality of service provision. I demand the initiative, go on-the-moment, as a care- and care-giver I met in More and Romesdal had. He said it this way: yes, bring the private one, and I'll compete them out. I'll beat them, all of them! And there was a public service officer who said that. That's where we have the hold when it comes to how we're going to meet this. Then think a new one, and you're willing to take a roof. Then you have to have robust regions. Yeah, that's okay. It seemed to me to be one of the most positive things with the whole distribution to the Council of State. And that's a little interesting, because in 1990 I also put on the Storting, and then we said in the Progress Party that if we're going to be able to keep the building, we have to make strong regional centers to keep young people that way. And we said it so strongly that if one in Finnmark had created a much stronger region center around Alta, the churches and a lot of other places, then the Finnmarks had not lost the fight against Tromsø, which at that time sucked up the people of the region. That time, many people laughed at us and said we were crazy. Now this is clearly the policy of the Government. Welcome after! So the state councils talk about a strong and competitive business in the regions, in the districts. How do you get it? - Not a word! We have a disadvantage in this country, and that's the distances. Infrastructure expansion was referred to by a sentence, but no number was mentioned. Perhaps the government is wise about the damage that the central government caused before the 1997 election, and that was not followed up. The point is that many of the activities are located in District Norway – so far. We have a local ownership, but we also have some taxes and taxes that are watering down the local ownership right now. It's the property tax and the inheritance tax. And then we have the transport costs. Brørby said there should be no big difference between the Progress Party and the Labour Party when it applies to the diesel tax, after tomorrow. Yeah, that's the rightmost interesting thing out there. So are we going to get a reduction in the diesel price of $2 from tomorrow? That was happy news, I must say. The point is that the distances in Norway are a bad thing, and that doesn't make our business go around. Are we willing to do something about this? We can do that. We have had a local ownership of Norwegian businesses in the districts, but because of the inheritance fee, very many companies that are now in a situation where they are going to carry out a generation change have to sell out parts of the companies to pay the inheritance fee. And then one waters out the local ownership that makes the businesses in More and Romesdal. What is the natural reason why a furniture company should be located in More and Romesdal? Only the local ownership, the pioneer spirit, does it. And when a now waters out this local ownership, there won't be any local anchoring. So people will think this way: with the transport charges and costs that we have with the long distances to the market that are, after all, located in the central Austland region or in Europe, it would be unnatural for us to leave the companies still in Coast Norway. And then they move because the local anchoring is gone, thanks to the property tax and inheritance tax, which breaks these companies. And if we don't do anything about this, we don't take into account transport costs, infrastructure construction, property taxes and especially working capital, which means that one is required – to say it very simply – to sell out a job to pay the taxes on wealth, yes, it's like the predictions we heard in the news today, that the stream of centralisation will increase the 10-15 next years. But we have the right, because we've been reported that our marine resources, if we use them properly, can give a total value of $250 billion per. years. And that's not oil money. This is money that we can have for all future if we do it properly. It's not like oil money, they disappear. Then we don't have to risk that people are gone, that in 30 years it's 80-90 pst. by the people who live in the central strut, and that it's only 10 pst. by the population of Norway, particularly interested types, which remain in the districts. Let me think that I'm among the ten percent, to say it like that. We also have an advantage: we have resources. We have money, and we can do something. We can remove the property tax, and we can remove the inheritance tax. We can lower the fuel charges, the car charges and the transport charges. We can build infrastructure. We can secure local ownership. And by exploiting the potential of renewable resources within the marine sector, we can reverse, brake, move. With the current policy, one will not be closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e295	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e298	Once upon a time, political activity means changing things from when a person adopts things. And I think in a way when you hear the representative, Lodve Solholm, that what has been the solution of the Progress Party, what should be the solution for all time in the future and that should solve any problem, that is taxes and taxes. In this context, I would like to point out that, among other things, a very large enterprise with high technology development and well-educated people working in Overhalla, does not compete with the rest of the country, but in fact competes for grants specifically granted to the former GDR. And I think we have to take inwards that business around the districts is not uniform, and is not just competing with jobs within Norway. So it almost sounds as if the farming industry can be moved to Oslo. There are a lot of companies we can compare with in terms of value creation with raw materials that lie around, so I don't think the solution is just taxes and taxes. The representative, Lodve Solholm, also says that there should be an equivalent service offer regardless of the economy of the municipalities. It's not a matter of action, as we say in the Nord-Trøndelag, because it's not possible to practice. Living in the districts we like, and basically people live where they like to live, as far as they get work, and so far there are also offers that make us have a community there. No one likes to be alone. I also believe, as was said by both Sylvia Brustad and Berit Brørby, that cultural services in the districts should be given greater emphasis. It's having a community that makes us want to live there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e309	I am fully aware that there are some companies in Norway that compete with the rest of the world and do not compete with companies in Norway, that is not the problem. Although I know that the farming industry cannot be moved to Oslo. But the problem is that if we're going to be able to use the marine resources that's lying there, there's got to be people left in the districts to start up and work with the views that we're facing, and then we have to take care of the business that's there today. And the business community that is there today is about to move because local ownership is getting watered down, that property taxes make it so difficult in Norway that a move to EU countries and that transport costs now amount to 10 p.m. of the cost of a product. This means that if a company moves to Oslo, or possibly even closer to a part of the export industry market, just in Europe, there are no jobs left. And then there are no people to be involved in what we see ahead of us in 10, 15, 20 or 30 years in the marine sector. And like service provision – well, it is possible to achieve a similar service provision regardless of municipal economy and geography if an easy state takes over the financial responsibility for health, care and education and then creates differentiated supplements that attract some objective criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e316	A good 17th Maital is not to be despised, and in this way I also think the representative Lodve Solholm is a fairly good 17th Maitaler. The Party of Advancement presents itself as a party to business, and the order of honor is liberalisation and free competition. But I think we have experienced quite strongly that competition only works where there is something to compete about. The aviation frieze has demonstrated it to our eyes in many ways. Taxes and charges shall be reduced. But this also has to be compensated, and then the question is, where do you compensate for that? I have reported a little in the spring budget for 2000, and I understand that it is possible to cut taxes and taxes when the consequences are less support for shipbuilding, which is, of course, a major regional industry. Quick route would go on its own keel, the State's Food and Rural Development Fund would be wound up, and one would cut support for fisheries. And I quote: ‘The FrP therefore considers that, inter alia, the law on participation, the law on raw fish and the system of fisheries agreements can be terminated.’ Where, then, does the coastal fisherman, who is so important to District Norway? As far as agriculture is concerned, the Progress Party says that they want to regain the lost freedom of the Norwegian farmer. I'd like to ask, "Freedom for whom, when you're going to cut with $6 billion in agricultural aid?" And I could still have with the reindeer industry, which is suggested also cut. Then my question becomes to the representative Lodve Solholm: How should a compensator compensate this when a person, through financial constraints, chokes the most important business in District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e337	Now when I heard the Christian People's Party Jan Sahl, I wanted to tell an anecdote. I'm not going to do it, because I'm not sure the president will accept it, but it's about how to read a Bible. Of course, I thank you for the compliment that I should own as 17 May – I hope it does not work through so I get the assignment now on 17 May, because I have thought of other things. The representative Sahl frames up a lot of posts where we're going to cut. But as usual – he did not read out how to compensate, because it also says there. I want to get the representative Sahl to read on, and he wants to see how we're going to compensate for this. I can name a keyword. We say, let the value creation remain where it is created. Where are the values? Then the tax will be so that they will not be dragged into Oslo that there are many bureaucrats sitting here and spending a lot of money on managing them out again through various support schemes. We want companies, companies, companies, to keep value creation, so that they themselves can figure out how to use their own money – notice: their own money. Then there'll be a reasonable use of them, instead of being transferred from the government's money, because then it's not so good to use the money and think about how to get the most out of the crown, as if it were your own money. But as I said, I encourage the representative of Sahl to read on in our alternative state budget. There he will find answers to most of his questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e350	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e353	Norway is the country of possibility. We have oil, gas, hydropower, fish and forest. In addition, we have lots of space, clean air and fresh nature, all of the good that there is a lack, and that I believe the future human being is going to demand. Of course, all of this is linked to District Norway. Then there must be a basis for the districts not only to survive but to grow and thrive. To do that, we need, first of all, a competitive business. But we also need a reasonable distribution of government investment. Government tasks must also be located outside Oslo, and we need simplification and service provision in the public sector. ‘The presentation by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs was relatively sober and straightforward. I actually agree with much of what the Council of State said...» This is how current state councillor Sylvia Brustad expressed himself last year to the then municipal and regional minister Odd Roger Enoksen. Since I can join the nominee this year, there must be a certain basis for cooperation. Governments say the goal is to preserve the main features of the construction pattern. It's positive. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that district policy should apply to make use of the whole country. Centralization is not governed by laws of nature, it is the policy we pursue that creates the results we see. When government investment is mainly channelled to areas in and around Oslo, it means activity, well paid work and, of course, relocation. But it's a waste of resources to leave beautiful houses empty on the outskirts, while one has housing in the cities. It is environmental issue that food packers are in line on four-field motorways in central strokes, while one could go to work in the built-in area. Then why do people move? First of all, I think it's because they have freedom to move, both economically and practically. It's not nud that makes people move, as it was in the last hundred years, when people move to America. Secondly, job opportunities in general have been more common in the central strata. Although the corner stone company has work for most, sometimes want to work in other sectors. Thirdly, higher education institutions are concentrated in the centre. Education usually takes several years, and that at the time when people establish themselves. Friends and relationships actually seem centralizing like this. Fourth, the requirement for a varied leisure provision for the whole family is more important than before. Sport, culture, church sound and outdoors have become more important to well-being. And fifthly, I believe that the media distributes stalls that favor that urban culture. That's what I think is sad. This list was not yet complete. There are a lot of reasons why people move and centralisation is going on. But trends also seem to be the opposite. New technology makes distance less important than before. Development of infrastructure means that one can move – and commute further to work and cultural services. District Norway has qualities that are difficult to offer in cities, and cities have shadow sites that many parents want to protect their children from. Then it is important that the buildings exist, that the schools are in operation, that the postal services and shops are functioning, and that public services are equivalent. We need District Norway. Regional policy is not expensive. In fact, every day, districts send more money to Oslo than they get back. District subsidizes actually central strip. Export income is also the pre-service of District Norway. The three western provinces of Hordaland, More and Romesdal and Rogaland are at the top in terms of export growth and exports relative to the population. The Western states have approx. 20 pst. of the population in the country, but accounts for almost 40 pst. of the exports, and then we have not counted on oil and gas, which in total is naturally taken care of and taking care of west of the mountains. The industry in the districts is therefore competitive and emerging. Nevertheless, the NHO’s competition survey has shown that we do not provide the companies with good enough framework conditions. The markets are and will be far away. We can't do anything about that. The cost level is high and can be increased, cf. last payroll but infrastructure may be improved. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State pointed to infrastructure as a service for the districts, an infrastructure that makes it accessible, safe and sustainable. Better road standards are particularly important to boost the competitiveness of business in the outlying regions, she says. That's true. I would like to point out that investment in infrastructure is «expenditure on the acquisition of income». It's alarming that it's almost double the price per person. km for a trailer to run parts of the West in comparison to the Central Austland. That's why it's important, for example. completing the Coastal Route. The business community is paving the way for transporting export goods that are not going to the Austland at all, but to the continent. The coastal route from Trondheim to Kristiansand will shorten and streamline transport. It will have a lot to say for business, but it is also important for the environment. It is clear that the framework for the Norwegian State budget also has limits, but the distribution must at least become more reasonable. Too little of the state investment has gone to the districts, so district representatives have always known. Now it's documented. In Aplan Viak's report, the conclusion is that 69 pst. of state investment has gone to the central area, mostly to Oslo. And well there's a lot of people here, but we don't have to think about it so that everyone stays here eventually. Actually, we can't afford that. District-Noreg must have its reasonable share of the cake. That's what Norway's going to do. My colleague will say more about North Norway's efforts and the decentralisation of state tasks. Districts need to have framework conditions that stimulate growth industries such as fisheries, aquaculture and tourism. These industries, which are going to acquire Norway — and already do — huge incomes in the future, are located in District Norway. We lay down the buildings, we simply disappear much of the export income. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the new government will pass on the Bondevik government's commitment to business environments. The purpose of business environments is to facilitate the development of new jobs within competence-based activities in the districts. Business gardens shall provide local, ICT access, various community services and a professional and social environment. One shall also be able to provide distance learning and telemuting. This is how we move knowledge and competence into regions, rather than people and businesses into central regions. The Christian People's Party believes that business environments can also be important for young people to create an attractive job in the district, without seeking out the city for an environment of expansion and development. If District Norway is to survive, we also need to increase competence and focus on entrepreneurship in education. It is necessary for young people to invest in becoming their own employers, as our fathers actually did. We need workers instead of employees. Innovation is necessary to replace the jobs that we know will be lost in the sharp competition created by a globalised economy. The municipal minister is busy renewing the public sector, and the Christian People’s Party would like to recommend the project ‘Simplify Norway’. The goal of a door, a phone, and preferably a form are visions that the Christian People's Party does not want to be lost. And of course, when the new municipal minister takes the Bondevik government's bet program for setting up a public service office to his chest and presents it as his scheme, she gets support. That's how parts of our bet are passed on under a new regime. Greater self-government for the individual municipality is also part of the project «Simplify Norway», and the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Workers' Party government has found the Bondevik government's list of ear-marked schemes that it was its intention to cut out. We now know that ear-marked additions that last more than three years will lose the effect of steering gear. But the money must stay in Kommune-Noreg. Local authorities have increased their debt by an unlikely amount of NOK 12 billion and do not tolerate a reduction in the amount of the ear-marked credit when you add it to the frame. Greater freedom in administration is a means of efficiency, and I believe that Municipality-Noreg will win a lost rule management in favour of target management. There's a big difference in Norway. But Luster in Sogn and Fjordane and Oslo West are in spite of differences two examples of cities that have the best living conditions in this country. They are not alike, and they must definitely not be. Therefore, local freedom is needed to build the country on the basis of the authorities that exist in the individual municipality. To have the same rules and regulations for the Oslo Earth as for the Hardanger area is unwise. Nor should one punish financially the municipalities that do things differently or in other order Velferds-Noreg is created locally, and the people and the people in the individual municipality or county are the ones who have the best intentions to know what the community needs. [[The President clubs again.]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e420	No matter what is created, it must not be created overtime in relation to speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e424	No, but now I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e429	For this time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e434	It is a pleasure to listen to the representative Apelthun Seele, because her posts are largely influenced by realism and take inward in a way that it is not that long ago that someone has been in government, which makes you feel that it is possible to reach agreement on district policy – a much more realistic consensus than I feel was the case before the Christian People's Party was in government. One of the angles taken by Apelthun Seele's representative was that there is a large house empty, and that value creation and jobs are needed in the districts. We can agree on that. I think we have to realize that getting a high level of education also helps raise the problem of centralization. Highly educated young people want a diversity to choose from in terms of jobs, and it is a challenge for us. But I would like to go back a little bit to that with the state location of jobs and hear if the representative Apelthun Seele can make more concrete what we're talking about. This has been the case with the Fisheries Directorate in Bergen. For example, is there still the type of activity on the agenda when the Christian People’s Party wants government jobs out in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e443	Realism is, host and shall be a hallmark of the Christian People's Party, it will be a mark. When the representative Aud Gaundal points out that large houses are empty in the districts, and that value creation is necessary, I agree wholeheartedly. At the same time, we need to look at the fact that distance becomes less important with ICT capabilities – the new technology that makes it possible to work elsewhere than your colleagues. We believe that this will create new opportunities for District Norway. So to state relocation. The Fisheries Directorate is not the best example. It's actually in Bergen, not in Oslo. The mountains are also part of Norway without the many state tasks as in other central strata, so I didn't think it was a good example. That doesn't mean I don't know what was said about it before in this room. But the Lottery Authority is a good example. In addition, there is just a few answers to a decision taken by the previous government, which shows that it is possible, practical and effective to move out more state institutions. That statement has certainly been given to this government, and it was also referred to in the newspaper, which I do not have here, a few days ago. So there's a possibility of moving out government operations. But one must want to. There must be a willingness to do so in order for it to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e459	I'm glad that the last speaker was allowed to call the country's only city with a real urban culture for "district" – to be clear. I could imagine asking the Christian People's Party a couple of questions about the basic trends, or the features, we see in Norway today. The major shift that has taken place in the districts from the 1970s to today is that the birth surplus in Norway has moved from rural to urban areas. That's what's kind of the underlying bit in terms of the issue of relocation. So before that, more people were born in the countryside. It didn't do much if quite a few moved to the cities, because there was still growth in the countryside, or stability was maintained. Now it's changed. It is of great importance to the truly viable centres that already exist in District Norway, the places that have high business activity and that are actually the most valuable part of our country. Many of these are located in Coast Norway. They are today in a situation where they are competing very hard with the central strikes for labour. Looking at the future perspective for Norway, the lack of labour remains one of our biggest problems. And if you're going to be able to have a policy to further develop the viable parts of District Norway and continue to have a good development, you're going to have to get a greater degree of relocation to those places. Does the Christian People's Party see that one of the most important strategies to achieve this is a continuous streamlining and modernisation of the public sector, thereby releasing more resources in the form of labour than the future analyses show? If not, maybe this is going to be the largest underlying factor that District Norway, also the growth part, is going to die out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e472	The town is Bergen and the team is Firen. We never forget that! The representative Erna Solberg raised a huge problem when she showed that the birth surplus has moved. It's because it's the kids who move, and not the old ones, they're left. It creates a double problem, both that the birth surplus we had in Norway – now it's not that big, we have a birth rate of 1.9, and if we're going to have a birth surplus, we need a birth rate of 2.1 as a minimum – and that the elderly are left, those who are nurturing and need help from the young. It creates a problem for the districts themselves. And the democratic winter that trend researchers talk about, as with whole Europe, and as with Norway to a lesser extent, is a major problem that should be discussed from a regional point of view. The labour shortage is increasing. We read in the newspaper yesterday that after an investigation by the Handelshögskulen, we lack 12 000 IT employees every year. We can't find them in Norway, nor in the central strata. We're missing these. We have to import them from outside, and I don't know any other country than India, or China, that can get us these. Modernising the public sector as an efficiency potential I see the need for. KrF says yes to it. But that modernisation should also happen precisely in order to increase the public sector, because one of the things we want to lack to a large extent is health professionals, who are mainly funded by the public sector. That's why you need to turn to the public sector labour reserve to get enough not least to what is perhaps the most important, simply to take care of our elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e483	I have a couple-three questions I want to ask the representative Apelthun Seele. The first is that today we have been informed that Prime Minister Stoltenberg and the Government are going in to shut down the county municipality. But then we know that the councils as they sit in the hall today, the more they swear for large regional municipalities – as I understood at the representative of Østberg in a line change that he was not particularly enthusiastic about. Neither are we in the Progress Party. My question is about the Christian People's Party now, when there are multiples in this Chamber to put down the county council, can help to ensure that a non-reconstruction of a new political administrative body, with five-six large regional municipalities that are even more remote from people than the county council is today. Then the representative was in on this with road media. It might be interesting to get the right how much more than any other Christian People's Party will use this time. The last one was 5 billion dollars, and we haven't seen a single penny of them this far in the period, but we could maybe get a careful look at how much money we're going to get for infrastructure in our country, both in the central stroke and in the districts. The Financial Committee was present in the morning today with diesel tax cases, where there is a proposal from the Progress Party to lower it somewhat. It might be interesting if the municipal fraction in the Christian People's Party, which also probably sees the value of the transport costs going down, could break out and influence the financial fraction of the party to be with and support the Progress Party, so that we can reduce the diesel tax for the benefit of Norwegian industry, for the benefit of District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e494	To take the last first, the diesel charge: I thought there was a very good tone from the Labour Party's representative at the pulpit here today. I think it might be negotiable. When it comes to the county municipality, I have to admit that after 14 years as a county politician in Hordaland, I still have affinity for the county municipality. I think the county council is actually a saving leak. This does not mean that we cannot cooperate in regions, that no more county municipalities can cooperate on the issues that concern more parts of the country. The coastal route is one example, which I took in my post, but one can also talk about regional hospitals, which already have arrangements, and this should be developed further. Now there's a selection at work. As the representative of Solholm knows, I am new to this committee, but I have registered that there is a selection called the Task Distribution Committee, which is under work, and I think we should wait and see the result. What I think is important is that the big things, such as the hospital sector and the partly road sector, have popular control. I believe in the so-called subsidiarity principle, also referred to as the ‘principle of subsidiarity’, that those who wear the shoe know best how to print and that if it can be controlled by the local democracy, it should not be controlled by Oslo. So to the roadways. I have sometimes said that it reminds me of the song «Your promises are many». But when that is said, I would say that the government of Bondevik met the greatest shakes that have been in the world economy since the 1920s. The oil price went down and the interest rate went up. The first goal was to get the interest down. You did it. Now at least one must distribute the existing resources. When 69 p.m. Go to central stroke, it's too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e505	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e508	The statement that we are debating today is in many ways interesting, but it is in a few ways clarifying in relation to the questions raised. We record that this minister has a slightly more relaxed and realistic relationship with the housing ambitions than the previous government had. We think that is positive. The government has given priority to three key themes in rural policy: development of robust regions development of competitive business renewal in the public sector All three themes are important, although we may disagree on the direct role of the state in the various three areas. The direct involvement of the state is of the opinion that we should be the largest in the renewal of the public sector. In some debates it is claimed that public employment in itself can almost guarantee a certain settlement. We believe that in the future the demand for efficiency in the public sector will be reinforced, also in order to release labour resources for interesting businesses in the private sector. It'll be a challenge. When the minister wants to develop a competitive business, we share the interest, but the Right would like to be careful to facilitate competitive business and make it a task for the private sector. We believe that the public should have limited direct responsibility for the design and development of the regions. In any case, in our opinion, the public hand in this process should be less active than what we believe is in the Labour Party's policy. We have seen that the Minister has also had public thoughts about administrative regions. We all know the European model with strong regions that have been granted taxing and regulatory powers at the expense of central government, and we are excited whether the municipal minister will fill in his regional map with strong elements of decentralisation in a similar way. In such a case, many of us believe that this house must change culture, when we know that the Norwegian big thing has gone in a different direction, with long-term earring and central control, and that the leap back to the decentralization of the power of such dimensions is a significant challenge. This debate will be fully debated when the Task Distribution Committee's attitude takes place in the summer. We can also read from this statement and recent debates in Stortinget that there is clearly a conflict, a conflict between equality and redistribution on the one hand, and incentives for value creation and business organisation on the other hand at local level. This is related to the municipal income system and the level of the municipal taxpayer, where recent ambitions have contrasted with practical policy actions. We believe that there are many good reasons to look forward to the future of District Norway and the regions, but the future depends on the sensible management of Norwegian natural resources, which are mainly found in District Norway. The right will remove political barriers to the proper use of natural resources. It is necessary to use natural resources and their opportunities in a new and offensive way. Measured in value, the fisheries and aquaculture industry is the largest export industry for Norway after crude oil. New farming concept and species are on the way in. These are promising for commercial breeding and provide exciting perspectives. Sustainable rural development must be based on competitive enterprises. It is therefore very important that the fisheries and aquaculture industries are given framework conditions which ensure further development. Travel life is one of Norway’s most important industries. With good and competitive framework conditions, tourism industries have significant growth potential, with the potential for increased employment and value creation in many municipalities. The right will strongly warn against increasing the tax and tax burden on industry by introducing VAT on travel and overnight stays. This will lead to higher prices and tear down the ground during the positive development we have in the tourism industry. A successful commitment to industrial development across the country depends, in particular, on good communications. Infrastructure and transport are more than just roads; the road is very important. Technological developments require the whole country to have access to new forms of communication and to focus more on ICT research. High-speed and high-capacity digital communications networks are necessary. The development of a high-speed cross-border communications network is considered essential for business development around the country. A good transport policy is a prerequisite for profitability in new and existing industries throughout the country. Today, the economy in the districts has clear competitive disadvantages with its high transport costs. Transport policy must reduce this disadvantage. In the state budget for 2000, which both the centre parties and the Workers' Party have stated that they are fully behind them, these parties decided to significantly increase transport charges. The car diesel fee was increased by 45 cents plus VAT. This led to a sharp increase in transport costs for business, particularly in the districts. In addition, the Centre and the Workers' Party introduced a base tax of 19 øre plus VAT on fuel oil. This base charge was also applied to fuel used by ferries and speedboats along the coast — a heavy burden. Finally, the right will change the municipal income system so that a greater part of the value creation remains in the municipalities. The objective criteria of the transmission system need to be improved. The income system of municipalities provides municipalities with too small incentives to facilitate economic development locally. There are several factors that contribute to this – one is that the Stortinget, against Højre's votes, decided in 1998 to transfer the corporate tax from the municipality to the state. At the same time, the Stortinget, also against the Right's votes, has for several years reduced the municipal taxpayer. In total, this represents a serious weakening of the motivation of municipalities to facilitate the conditions for businesses. At all, there are opportunities in the districts, and it is tempting to conclude by saying that an overly public governance, a two-level, damp regulatory hand – we take the county with us, maybe it is four – perhaps the crucial limitation for a flourishing development in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e562	In many ways it struck me when I heard the message from the representative, Mr. Hoddevik, that in some respects the Right is more dogmatic than the Centre party was in its day of shine. And I think that was partly expressed in his article. For the Labour Party, good district policy is the sum of efforts in several policy areas. We've never said that it's simple, and that there are some clear phase responses to many of the challenges we're facing. We are clearly faced with many dilemmas in relation to rural development, but we can agree that industrial policies with particular emphasis on primary industries, agriculture and fisheries, are particularly important for rural development. Earlier this week we had a debate on the agricultural notification, which also made it clear that there is a distance between, for example. The Working Party and the Right in that way. That is, to the extent that it is an honest confession. Transport policy is important, but it is not alpha and omega. I have to say that if we look at the story two years back in time, where the Right and Advance Party were the basis of the Bondevik government's budgets, I don't think the effort on the roads in that context is particularly impressive. It's going to be the most rhetorical when the Right will highlight its great commitment to road appropriations. For the Workers' Party, the representative Mr Hoddevik was involved, for example: broadband networks important for the development of districts, as former Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Transport, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, also paid particular attention to. It requires public effort, it requires public input and resources to be made available. My challenge to Mr. Hoddevik's representative is that developing districts is more than rhetoric. There should be a more firm basis for policy-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e575	I eased after the critical questions in this line, and found few of them. But of course, the line requires an answer. And the shades are enough between the Workers' Party and the Right, and sometimes we separate layers. I noticed that the replicator referred to budgetary cooperation. Now it is that we have never been a direct basis for a government budget – as we have seen. Politics is the art of possibility, and we have sometimes had it the way we would, without having reached the road – let's be clear, that's right. But so is the fact that in the current year, the Workers' Party has a completely different commitment to the budget, because it has put itself behind everything that is – to say it like that – and this year has a completely different commitment to the Government's arrangement. I got a condolences for betting on broadband. We agree that this must be done. We may disagree a little about nuances – how it's going to work out, how much public engagement should be, how much organization or direct expansion – but I was told that Eriksen's representative shared our view on the importance of this having to exist. It's also important, I think, that the public also sign up as a user of the same thing, so that the potential for expansion also becomes very visible in the municipality of Norway. I guess that's what we're going to do in this context, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e586	This is a debate on regional and regional policy. When I listened to the representative from the Right, I got the same experience that I often have when Right is talking about district and regional policy. I'm left with a feeling that it becomes very little concrete from the Right side. There will be a lot of fine words about bets on both the one and the other, but little about how it should be concretely designed in the districts. Sometimes I wonder if Right has a specific district policy. The President of the Right said correctly in his statement that of the points in the distribution that form the basis for the debate, the greatest effort had to be made to renew the public sector. Is it so simple for the Right that the party believes that most and most of the challenges in the districts can be solved by restructuring the public sector? Is that the solution? In recent years, we have also heard a lot about how the right will strengthen cities, for example: It has become apparent that it is desirable to have a greater share of the promises, of tax revenue, etc., to strengthen the political representation of cities, and that funds should be more closely linked to people when they move to cities. I agree that we're going to have a good urban policy, but doesn't Right see that it's just as important to have a good district policy? Is it not Right that good district policy is to bet on mainland Norway? It's stimulating value creation, and after all, is it the territory that has a large part of the value creation in the country? I think it's hard to move something of the bet that's out in the districts, into cities and urban areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e597	Here were a little more specific questions, and let me take it a little bit fast and get me the answer to most of it. I believe that the representative Jorunn Ringstad and the Senterpartiet have followed poorly if they have not seen that in our principal budget we have had a very visible investment on the road, for example, in line with our common promises in the attitude to Norwegian road and road traffic plans. We've also had a similar investment in school, and we could go on. When, for my part, I pointed out the renewal of the public sector, it was linked to the specific public craftsmanship, which was to be given the greatest practical responsibility. It was not therefore said that the development of a business life is not as important, but there are other actors who are to be seen, too, not just the public. So the representative in our urban policy, and it's right that before our national meeting, it was from a number of city politicians who turned to the sound of focusing on cities. But the country meeting ended without the cities leaving the farm with any gain in such a context, except to put a legal light on their position as well. We therefore still have a well-established regional policy. We have not changed our view of political representation, for example. In fact, our district policy is the same as it has been: simple, efficient, with visible priority, where the public and private must share the tasks together, so that we get a good result. I'm waiting with excitement for the Center Party and Center to fall back on its previously stated priority of transportation, as we had in the last period. I don't think it's going to be revised, but we'll see what's being said when you've been out of government offices and come to the harvest budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e610	The representative of the Right stressed in his speech the reorganization of the public sector as an instrument of district policy. SV does not disagree that it is necessary, but when the representative Hoddevik says that this is about releasing labour resources to other important jobs in the private sector, I am concerned. The majority have adopted important reforms with the right's votes, including: for elderly care, psychiatry and health, and we have adopted reforms for school. Is it true that the Right believes that these reforms are no longer important? Estimates from the Government show that at least well over 50,000 new annual works are needed to implement these reforms, and a large number of those who use and need these reforms most, namely the elderly, live in the districts. Or is it that if they get these businesses privatized, right sees it as value creation in a more high way than if these jobs are done in the public sector? Because if you agree with the reforms, you actually need people to do these important jobs. I think the Right is going to have to make a necessary clarification now, because if they have applied a different policy in this regard, it is necessary to make it clear. So finally, all the parties have talked very much about the service office – perhaps not so much today, but otherwise. Does the Right see that impositions on state agencies may be necessary, so that they are actually required to participate in such schemes, so that a rational service can be provided in relation to the population? Or should we sit and wait for the private initiative of the individual department to help us lose even more functions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e617	Let it be clear that I have not come to the pulpit today to separate our commitment to the reforms to which we have joined. What we've been through before is solid. The representative specifically mentions care for the elderly. It is an important reform. However, the totality of the public sector consists of much more than private or public carers. It also consists of bureaucrats at different levels, which can clearly be fewer. I remember that if you look at the investigation department's analysis of the county top administration before you start service production, before you start in the sector at all, we in this country spend $2 billion on top administration alone. I am aware that this can be interpreted as a siding, but to me it is an example of something that we think is unproblematic to frame in relation to the first-line services, which somehow need to be maintained – of course. It's important. Should I say a little about the service office, I would say that it is clear that we think it is important with all reasonable efficiency. Power is not good to use, especially on individuals, but we have a lot of will to use public power in public bureaucracy. We don't feel that in any way is an infringement. It is therefore not necessary to impose requirements in such contexts on us in order to provide an efficient and public-friendly first-line service. Then I hope that I have signed out for recognition and explained where we will put our efficiency support. We would like to have a long structural debate today. I don't think there's time for that, but I'm sure the committee will be able to come back to this at a later stage, and then we'll be able to elaborate on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e628	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e631	What was the main reason why you/they moved from a location in District Norway into a larger city or urban area? There was one of several questions in an MMI investigation that was published in August 1999. 560 out of 1,000 people asked that they move because of the job, to get a job, to get a better job. The central government focused on the positive opportunities in District Norway: on resources, on oil, fish, forests, water and soil, on new opportunities due to new technologies, on identity, well-being and creativity. We proposed measures. We were able to brake the moving current. It is good that the Labour Party is following up our initiatives in today's distribution, both in North Norway, women and young people, business farms, trials in Uppland and Hedmark. We would have liked to see a stronger and clearer signal in relation to future efforts, both in these areas and in relation to marginalisation. The centre party wants strong regions, but we also want urban development. We want it to secure strong municipalities. I have three advisers to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: 1st@item: inlistbox Go carefully into the Export Council's comment on which states export the most, as Statistical Central Bureau's last report was presented in the Evening Post on 10 May. Talk carefully about choirs. In order to benefit from these opportunities, an active effort is needed, not only to secure strong regions, but also strong individual municipalities.2. Studying the Aplan Viak report, ordered by Enoksen, and telling that state investment in the central east region has increased from 24 pst. from 1989 to 64 p.m. in 1998. Make concrete proposals to change the breakdown in the 2001 budget. Infrastructure and educational opportunities are important keywords here.3. The third Council is concerned with governmental tasks. A cross-ministerial group has compiled an overview of what state tasks can be decentralised. For the first time, they have been in the departments, where 900 out of 13,400 jobs are outside Oslo. The leader of the group, department director Terje Tierstad, said to the Newspaper on 3 May: ‘... a lot can be gained by also going through which relocation can be carried out by the Directorates’ – a brilliant starting point for meeting all those who, after the MMI’s investigation, had to move from the districts to get work, a brilliant starting point for translating the distribution from word to action. We are asking for a plan in connection with the 2001 budget in that area too, that is, both when it relates to the distribution of government investment – a distortion there – and to the decentralisation of tasks. If the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs would not like to listen only to the Central Party, I would like to advise you to listen to the experience of, for example: Director Ted Hanisch, who has moved something to Mo in Rana and to Steinkjer, who said in the newspaper that he received both a high level of competence, stable labour and a more reasonable workforce. Then one can strengthen both the municipalities and the regions, one can create work where people live, and one can renew the public sector and participate in the «Simplify Norway». Let me finally address the proposal that has been distributed, on behalf of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e656	The representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e661	Let me first say that I think it was a great post by the representative Meltveit Kleppa. It was nice to hear that she wanted strong regions. The installation also shows that there are many points of contact between the Workers' Party and the Centre's regional policy. We have traditionally been united in many ways about most of the design of district and regional policies. Let me just remind you again of the debate on the agricultural notification that we had earlier this week. It also makes visible the points of contact and the agreement that has been reached. It was nonetheless with wonder that I read in the Nations newspaper the day after the Council of State had made its statement, what the leader of the Centre Party, Odd Roger Enoxsen, said about the presentation, where he strongly disagreed with the councils of state in the regional thinking. His concerns were, because I knew of the nation, more tied up with the regional centers, and perhaps to a lesser extent to the regional thinking itself, but it was somewhat unclear. What was clear, however, was that he thought that the bet on the regions is going beyond edge-setting and a whole district-building that the central government offered. To say that in many ways this statement is a continuation of the signals coming from the very centre government of regional and regional policy. But I have one specific question to the representative of Meltveit Kleppa in this context, because her contribution deviated significantly from what appeared in the interview in the Nation with the leader of the Centre party, where he said that the policy is ‘anti-aliasing’. Does the representative Meltveit Kleppa agree with such a characteristic of the statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e671	I am somewhat uncertain as to what the Workers' Party actually puts in its definition ‘region’. It was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. referenced to the regionalisation taking place in Europe. Before she was appointed to the Council of State, the Minister of Local Affairs had set up a programme for a study of the Municipal Committee of Barcelona, of Catalonia, to study it more closely. I had the pleasure of being on these study grounds. It's a region that in the population is one and a half times bigger than Norway. So Norway and parts of Sweden should be a region. If the Labour Party in Norway has a different interpretation when it comes to the problem, than what has happened today, and that goes on to merge some states, I hope that we will clarify this later in the debate. To the expression "peripheral": yes, as I understand the Workers' Party, they have first and foremost ambitions to secure growth in cities, in regional centres, and very little concrete signals to those who today live outside these centres, for example. in Ulvik, where they have built up data, and in Finnøy, where they are investing in aquaculture. It is not really Bergen and Stavanger who are important to them, but parties and representatives who have faith in the possibilities that exist in each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e680	It's interesting to note that representatives of the Center Party, when they're going to make speeches about district policy, don't mention what's really going on in the districts, that's the tax on business with local anchoring. The wealth tax, especially the wealth tax on working capital – that is, buildings, machines – has former Minister of Finance Restad said he was willing to do something about it, but he never came so far that he did anything about it, even if he talked about it for almost three years. But there must be something wrong when we have a tax in Norway that means that if employers are to pay the taxes on wealth, they have to sell a job, that is, hammers, gears, machines, parts of buildings or parts of their business. The second point is this with inheritance tax, which comes when we get a generation change. Many of the flourishing companies in District Norway are in a generation shift, where inheritance fees require owners to go on the stock exchange, or they have to sell axes to the company in order to pay the inheritance fee. The local association of ownership is watered down. It is this local connection that actually causes many companies in District Norway to lie where they are, despite the geography – not because of, but because of the grievances in geography. The local ownership is so strong in Norway. And now it gets watered down. Would you like to join in supporting a proposal that removes the property tax? I will not ask for more in the first round than this with working capital and the inheritance fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e689	I am surprised by the representative Lodve Solholm's production of the business community in District Norway. In fact, with today's legislation in different areas, there is a long line of very thriving businesses across the country, and not least along the coast. We can discuss what has been done and what needs to be done to secure both business and opportunities for new businesses. Where taxes on working capital are involved, there is a proposal that the Centre Party has made several times, without obtaining multiple numbers in this Chamber. When it comes to generation change, I hope Lodve Solholm has come to realize that the central government is actually making proposals for changes there to make this easier. In addition, we presented an action plan for small and medium-sized enterprises to further facilitate business start-ups. We made a big message about travel life, which is largely a district industry. It is also the case that rural holdings are highly dependent on a good infrastructure, e.g.: the broadband wager that is now being discussed, but also a close interaction with a good public sector. Where has the Progress Party been in relation to giving the municipalities of District Norway the opportunity to stimulate a more versatile business life? Cut in the budget has our answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e696	Now I've heard most of the parties on the Stortinget – at least the majority of those who form a majority in budgets, and have done so in recent years. Neither in any of the submissions, nor in any of the replies, nor in the statement of the Council of State, has there been a single word that the main regional policy instrument we have, namely the differentiated employer fee, is in the process of confusing between our hands. The EFTA Court of Justice delivered a judgment last May saying that this is no longer a Norwegian tax policy. It is regional policy, and it is the European Union that decides. The scheme has only been approved temporarily until 2003 and is not yet approved. After that, the entire scheme shall be re-notified. In addition, there are regular regulations that require us to reduce the other business-oriented support schemes, which we no longer have the right to. In the State Council’s presentation — on the last page — there are maps of the scope of the differentiated employer’s fee. Now the colors are gone, and so it might seem that the tool is less geographically widespread than what it actually is, but it's a very big tool. I don't have the exact number in my head, but at least there's over $6 billion in this scheme. Last year SV tried to get the then government to look at the principal and serious consequences that this judgment actually gave, and we wanted the government to take up an alternative regime that could maintain differentiation and the rate of aid, and possibly look at extended transport aid schemes. All parties voted against this. Why is not at least the Centre party concerned by the fate of the differentiated employer fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e705	I do not know the representative Karin Andersen's description of how the engagement has been in this matter, and who has meant what. I don't doubt that she's done the right thing for SV's involvement. She is well aware that this matter was extremely difficult for the center government. I also assume that she is well aware of the contact that was both with ESA and with the relevant municipalities. Unfortunately, the EEA Agreement intervenes in areas that were not sufficiently published – in any case, I do not believe that all the representatives assumed the dynamism of the agreement when it was signed in Stortinget. Then the Senterpartiet and V stood together. It is true that ESA also intervenes in the field of district policy. The former Minister of Local and Regional Affairs made a great effort to obtain compensatory measures for the municipalities concerned. That's what I'm thinking, a case that's not completely finished yet, and I assume that Sylvia Brustad will follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e712	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e715	SV believes that people have to choose to live where they want to, but it's a social responsibility to make it possible. The great differences in living conditions do not go between town and country, they go between poor and rich both in the countryside and in the city. People don't move from the village because it's bad and poor there, but they move because every day they're told that the future is somewhere else, and that there's so much better going on in the city. District policy is therefore about providing a level playing field and opportunities for the future for the whole country. This is why, for example: at the same time and at equal prices, broadband bets are important. Human beings are the most important resource, and then population decline becomes a major problem, and schooling, education and empowerment are equally important. Education is the most important strategic tool for both those who will give individual man power and control over his own life, and for those who will give different parts of the country more power over his future. The repeated promises made by the Minister of Local Affairs to the municipalities of more money are therefore crucial if we are to succeed with district policy as well. DKr 12 billion in deficits in the municipal sector cannot be offset by small amounts of money either for a better local economy or for an increase in regional policy instruments. Coordination of major powers locally has been implemented by the SV for several years and has been downgraded. We think it's the right way to go, and we're talking about the urgency. In his statement, the Council of State specifically mentions the experiments in Hedmark and Uppland, where they would be allowed to decide more on where to use the resources. But do they get it? Inland states know both the Minister and I well, and there is a need for a training effort and a women's effort more than anything else – we can read that from the tables in the statement. It has been taken up by county councils, and they have been able to establish an adapted study offer for single dependants so that they can complete higher education. That will be the basis for moving forward, creating jobs and getting work. They need some financial help to get this done, and they have asked that, from the labour market seat, which, through the treatment of the welfare message, has been entrusted with a special follow-up responsibility for this group. But they don't. No, says the Labour Market Act, this is against the rules. But wasn't there just such rules and watertight bulkheads that were to be broken down to get important things done like someone else not doing things with normal cooperation? So this is going to be considered so important in these states that they want to prioritize it. Lonely caregivers are a target group of state councils that have repeatedly said is crucial for welfare policy, and it is a crucial step in regional policy to have it implemented. I would like to ask the Council of State to take this up and clean it up – because if you want to try coordination, they also have to be real, so that the most important things are done. So back to the differentiated employer's fee. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa did not grasp what was important in my contribution, not the minor changes that we have had to adapt to now, but the important fact that the whole scheme is no longer approved as a Norwegian tax policy, but is a regional policy, and that we can no longer determine either the scope or the level of it. This is an important scheme, which has benefited Norwegian businesses in the districts. It is an important tax policy act for the jobs in the districts, and I am somewhat surprised that even parties that are very concerned about taxes in other areas – taxes and taxes – do not seem to agree at all. Until 2003, the system appears to be in place, but what happens afterwards? That's what SV has been interested in, which we have asked for, among other things. the greater involvement of the central government. Why won't we have the fundamental consequences and the serious consequences of this? And why do you not want to start work to see if you can get up and stand similar schemes that can contribute to the same effect as the differentiated employer fee? The point is that there is now an enlargement of the EU to the east. They will get completely different things on their agendas than climate and scattered settlements and long transport distances that we have in Norway, and which are some of the reasons why this system is so important to us. There will be quite different issues, and that is far from reasonable, but for the Norwegian system it can be disastrous and it can be changed to such an extent that it is severely weakened as a regional policy instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e726	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e729	SV is well known both at Stortinget and, to a large extent, around the county policy as the party that will provide as much as possible for as many purposes as possible. However, there is also a point that it should be seen in a slightly larger context and not least in relation to the overall economic policy pursued. My question is therefore: how many billion more can we use in the SV's opinion without destroying the balance of the Norwegian economy? It is interesting to follow in the debate that is going on, where you can see that more people have benefited from being in the government's position to act responsibly afterwards. Maybe even SV could somehow be part of the government in order to learn how exactly those things should happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e736	Yes, thank you for the invitation. We've been saying for a long time that we actually want such a position, because we believe that Norwegian politics would have had very good influence from a party that will put greater emphasis on the environment and fairer distribution than the other parties do. Responsibility has a lot of experience with some of us from local politics, so we know what it means. But as far as our budgets are concerned, I think the representative is somewhat guilty of a performance that is still allowed to live, namely, that SV spends much more money than anyone else. I don't think that's right. We have chosen to spend something more money than others have. But if our government budget for last year had been adopted, the framework for it would have been less than what became the actual result of the consumption at the end of the year, and as far as I can see, there has been no dramatic deterioration in the Norwegian economy for that reason. So SV wants to spend some more money on the public sector and on distribution, for example. because we want a fairer distribution and not least a much larger bet in school. It's the most important input if we're to be brought safely into the future and have something to live on when we sit here today, becoming pensioners. So I might want to return the ball to the Workers' Party and ask them to look at what they're doing at least in words, that there should be more investment in the municipal sector, there should be a fairer distribution and there should be a better environment. I don't ignore the fact that there can be rationalization in the public sector as well, and that you can do things better and cheaper, but if you're going to get something like monks, you have to be willing to resort to a slightly stronger redistribution approach than the Workers' Party is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e741	I heard what the representative Karin Andersen said in his speech. She would probably have said even more if she had had better time to make her contribution, among other things. agricultural policy. It is true that agricultural policy has been adopted as an important pillar of Norwegian rural policy. In fact, the representative Karin Andersen did not come up with exactly this, but it is in my view that Norwegian agriculture survives on subsidy crutches, and it has a monopoly position in the supply of food to the Norwegian people. The result is the world’s most expensive food and farmers who serve badly. I believe that basing the future of rural areas on agriculture can be a difficult affair, because these subsidy crutches and this monopoly position could collapse under increasing pressure from, for example, the United States. The WTO, from the EU and not least from consumers themselves. What I really want a response from SV is: How important does SV agriculture consider to be in Norwegian district policy? Is it e.g. for SV that it is the families of children who, through the sky-high Norwegian food prices, have to pay the Norwegian District Policy bill? In short, where is the SV placing the importance of agricultural policy in Norwegian district policy? Where does SV put the agricultural policy in that picture?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e749	There was a major agricultural policy debate here on Tuesday in which I participated on behalf of SV. When you have five minutes at your disposal, you don't get to pick everything up. But agriculture is important, it is important as a jobseeker, it is important as a producer of food, and it is important as an environmental and cultural carrier in the districts. So to the description of the representative Andersen, that it is the food budgets that weigh down Norwegian families of children. I think I disagree with that description. But that the price of the Norwegian food is pressured because we live in an international competitive community, is right. For this reason, SV has said that we do not believe that we can increase transfers, but that, on the contrary, we need to increase consumer rights in agriculture, especially through a broad focus on organic and safe food. It will increase the willingness to pay for the population and will make it possible to maintain a necessary level of support, which we think is right. Because we want food to be produced in Norway, both because we believe it is the most environmentally sound way to produce food and because agriculture is important. I would also like to remind you that, unlike the majority here, SV wanted a much stronger commitment to the combination user, and was sceptical about the conversion to full-time use that the majority and the Progress Party are now in. We believe that for those who are going to have a future say in agriculture, a combination of professions will be the right thing, also because you need a diverse business and a diverse cultural life in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e758	I realized that Andersen’s representative was committed to strengthening local self-government as part of district and regional policy, among other things. by reference to the example given by the Council of State from Hedmark and Uppland. I wonder how far SV is willing to go when it comes to giving up power from the central authority. Is SV willing to allow differences between municipalities precisely because they want to govern themselves, or are we all going to be reasonably equal? Is SV willing to go to work radically in removing designation and taking some of their governance areas from the central authorities? Furthermore, I realized that it was an important principle that people should be allowed to live where they wanted to. I think it is important that we, as big business representatives, are involved in facilitating the future economic development that we see must and will come in this country. It has been pointed out that just fishing and farming will be a future industry. If we then pursue a policy that allows people to live wherever they want, without sufficiently facilitating that it becomes reasonable to live along the coast, when we do not meet these objectives. Does SV have concrete measures to put in place to achieve the objective of preserving the main pattern of housing policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e767	First, to the local maritime administration. In the debates on regional and regional policy in the past over the years, we have made a number of proposals, both in terms of the Ministry of Local Affairs' budget and in terms of the Ministry of Industry's budget. In concrete terms, this has been the decentralisation of power from flooding to the municipality and, in particular, to the state level, or what is now called, the regional level. To the extent that we have received these proposals until the vote, they have been voted down, so I am a little surprised that it is SV that gets this question. Even when it comes to ringing, we have been involved in all the joint comments that have been made by the municipal committee. What SV does not want is that there should be major differences in living conditions or in the social, health and school areas. On the other hand, where we have been very strong and clear, we are concerned with culture, industrial development – i.e. development policy in general – transport and, for example, with a view to improving the quality of life. the seat of the labour market. In our view, all of these functions can be provided at state level to a much greater extent than they are today, so that they can be made available. Last year we suggested that all the regional policy instruments should be put into a pot, so that a municipality could get one pot without bindings, or a county municipality could get a pot without bindings. Then we think that, for example. Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland or More and Romsdal seas could better facilitate what is necessary for settlement along the coast, because they know and can fine-tune their instruments far more than the Storting can. That's their advantage, because they're close and at the same time big enough to make decisions over a certain geographic area. Otherwise, I just get to refer to SV's alternative budget in all the areas where we want to strengthen local communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e778	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e781	The central government is offensively focusing on a more balanced development in the country, after several years with a strong imbalance and strong pressure, especially in the Oslo area. Not least, large government investments play an important role in this context. The Government of Bondevik also sought to strengthen coordination of regional and regional policies through the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. New tools were launched in a broad field, and a new optimism has been created in District Norway. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, in particular, is asking for a continuation of his policies in this area. And that's positive. It's little new, but what's been done in the last two years seems to be a sign, at least verbal. The Left welcomes the emphasis of the Council of State on innovation and entrepreneurship, technology development, education and research, youth and women investment, the renewal of the public sector and the important role of culture. I would like to mention a study in More and Romesdal that concludes that half of the young people who are thinking of moving are based on a lack of cultural and cultural work space. What I have mentioned now is general policy across a broad field that has much to say for living conditions in all parts of the country. We are pleased to say that the Council of State stresses the shared interests between the city and the country, and how necessary a balanced development is. Too often, cities and countries are set up as opposites and in conflict. However, that being said, there is a difference between the Left and the Labour Party's approach to district policy, based on different ideological points of view. Where the Workers' Party is most occupied by the institutional frameworks, the governance perspective seen from the ministry offices, the Left is based on the individual human being and the remoteness of the community. And what do we see? Well, we see a time change in which the individual's freedom of choice is considerably greater than before, and where the community itself must actively choose its future. It is no longer just about preserving and developing jobs, but making yourself attractive enough to be selected among many good communities. Many Norwegian villagers will choose their good life in the cities. Many urban areas will be able to choose the best way of life in rural areas or in smaller towns and cities. The choice will no longer be based solely on the possibility of a job, but on an assessment of the conditions of a good life. This freedom to choose is positive, and it challenges the communities. They have to show openness, tolerance, welcome new names and relatives who don't have a place in the countryside for generations, and they have to have cultural offerings and other good things that make them attractive in a market with many good places to live. They must compete for human beings. Therefore, the task of the public must be to add the right infrastructure, not least within transport and new technology, so that the good life can live anywhere. The possibilities for it are greater than before. It's a little new and concrete in the Council of State. A rhetorical main concern is ‘Regions Norway’ — most of which will be assessed for next year’s major report. The left takes a positive view of stronger regionalisation, and looks at the possibility of decentralised governance closer to the business community and to the individuality of the debt. But this has as its authority a strong will to give power and authority from state to regional level. In contrast, regionalisation can contribute to centralisation by reducing local communities and municipalities in favour of regional centres. State policy must not govern human beings into new formal structures but must facilitate human creativity and initiative. It is the challenge and possibility of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e802	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e805	It's actually a little bit difficult to know what to ask the left, because these were a lot of nice words. It was ‘the good life’, and it was ‘the freedom of choice’. And when a study on relocation is published today that tells us that twice as many move to the Eastern region as to the rest of the country, I assume that it's about ‘freedom of choice’. My question to the Left is then what we are going to do with what Mr Vihovde said, because what is left's claim regarding this 'freedom of choice' is that they choose to stay in the district. But that's not the case according to what we see from the statistics. So I want to ask the representative Vihovde: What means does the Left have to put in, except ‘the good life’ and ‘the freedom of choice’, to get people back to the countryside?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e812	I was into one thing in my post, easy to have a good infrastructure out to District Norway so that people can get the opportunity to stay and live their good life out there. Then I was concerned about what kind of offer you must have in District Norway, in the municipalities. And I've noticed that the Workers' Party is now in favour of a reduced earring to the municipalities, giving them greater freedom of choice to decide which service they want to provide to their inhabitants. I also believe that there is a possibility of stronger cooperation between municipalities. I can then name a small municipality as Bjarkøy municipality with 700 inhabitants, which now goes into cooperation with other municipalities, among others. Hasted, and asks: is there anything we can produce from services, and leave something else to you, so that we can use the means we have, with greater freedom? So giving back power to our local politicians by reducing earmarks is one thing, at the same time as a stake in infrastructure and technology development. Then I have faith that some people might choose to bow out in District Norway and not move into the central eastern regions. Then, of course, we have to have a good business policy for the small and medium-sized enterprises that are out in District Norway, and there I can only point out to Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa, who in their line rounds had answers to what the government of Bondevik has done. And then I also believe that cooperation between schools and businesses – so that our young people get an education, a competence that the business community demands out in District Norway, out in their municipality – is a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e823	It gets very fast in a district policy debate like this one which tends to get many flourishing posts at a reasonable theoretical level compared to the practical challenges around in District Norway. I think maybe the representatives of the parties who were in the former government should have said something more in this debate about what the Council of State Brustad met with by party leader Enoxsen, whom I see as the district spokesman for the centre alliance, after the presentation last Thursday. Then there was no way how old-fashioned the policy that the Workers' Party was pursuing was, in fact, and the centre had had such a much better policy. As a kind of promoter outside that company, I would say that I don't see so much difference in what has been said in this statement, and what has been said in previous presentations. And I have to say that it came up Enoxen had as a comment to the statement itself, has disappeared as good for the sun in this debate. So I've been wondering a little bit if the centre parties haven't discovered that even though they say they've had a good district policy, the districts haven't experienced it this way in the last two or three years. We have had massive rounds of trials of district uprisings, not least in the West, linked, among other things. in the absence of follow-up to commitments made in the road sector and related to increased transport costs that have been borne by them. So, while much more money has been given through some arrangements in the state budget – that is quite right – the most important aspects of district policy, as at least in Hordaland, in Sogn and Fjordane, and in More and Rome, namely the transport situation, have really been exacerbated. Among other things, it is now felt that almost all the bus companies have stopped the first ferries in the morning and the last ferries in the evening. Does not the Left's representative see that what she is saying is not in line with the policy of the central parties actually led to the government position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e832	I want to start with Left's view of transport – I'm in the Committee on Transport. Having an infrastructure that provides security for those living in the districts, security for what comes down from the mountains, whether it's white or it's rough and hard, simply stone – prioritizing these roads – is job no. 1st@item: inlistbox And then you have to build an infrastructure where you might meet the future industry, that's the marine industry. For we see that when oil revenue decreases, oil disappears, we have to cut off what we have along the coast, and that's the sea, and then we have to get an infrastructure out there so that we can quickly transport the goods and services down to Europe. But it doesn't help with a holiday solution project that gives ten minutes of saving in time, if one stands and stamps for two hours to get through Oslo when a fish comes down to Europe. I have faith in a simpler Norway, and it's something that the previous government is working on, so I don't agree with the representative Solberg that one has not started a process that is good for District Norway. So to that as a liability for taxes. We in the Left see a major problem in the fact that one outside of District Norway has large costs related to fees, and that one now has a reduction in the ferry supply. Then we will have to wait and see tomorrow, when the revised national budget comes, where the Minister for Transport has promised that this is what he will look at. This was something the previous government had begun to look at, because it took seriously the signals that came. Then we'll see if we can get a cooperation between the ferry companies and the county councils to reduce these costs so that the inhabitants of Hordaland, along our coast, can get a good collective offer. However, we may in the long term be able to leave more of the state transport investments/transfers to the county, so that they can also make their priority in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e843	The last representative Vihovde said, I agree with the heart, I think that is what we should take, and for which SV has also made proposals before. Another matter that I am surprised to learn that we are not able to do much more than today is the service office system. This has been recorded in the Stortinget I do not know how many times, and as far as I am aware, it is only the Advance Party that has had some concerns about some crossroads, otherwise everyone has agreed. But this happens very little, and in the meantime it will not be easy to coordinate and put into these service offices. Now it's going on, for example. a major rationalisation work in the Post Office, which could lead to many more points of despatch, but fewer post offices. And besides that, we have the equation rate, which is also going to go down a lot of places. Does the representative from the Left agree that the previous government should have made a freeze on all these floors, so that one had waited until one had tried to set up a service office before being allowed to lay down something more? Does the Left see that there is a need to impose states or agencies where the state is inside as a heavy owner, actually to be part of this, and that this is not going well enough entirely by itself? Then again, I want to ask the question to the Left, which has come out of government not long ago: what is the reason why the Left believes that it is not necessary to look at the serious consequences of the EFTA judgment regarding the employer's fee, and that they do not want us to investigate alternative ways of settling if this regime collapses even more than it seems to be doing today? There might be other ways that we can get the support system up that can be right, but that's what we need to figure out. And what's the reason why you're opposed to figuring it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e855	I am pleased that the SV and the Left are at least a few to transfer some of the transport investments to a regional level and leave them. So let's see when we deal with the National Transport Plan to the fall, if this becomes a reality, that a state politicians will see the purchase of air services and the purchase of train services in connection with collective investment, road investment, ferry operations and so on. Maybe you can make better use of the transportation heads. So that's what's going on with the service office. I agree with the representative, Karin Andersen, that this is something that you have to grips with harder. And when Eldbjørg Løwer was the Minister of Labour and Administration, he started it and had it clicked on to put in place the service offices, to get a service statement where the public in a way gives a signal to the inhabitants about what one can demand of public service. I think we should get a service office that cooperates and uses the experience that is done. Last Wednesday I was actually at the customer square on Askøy and had a conversation with those added out there to listen to their experiences and their problems in getting the various public budgets to cooperate. The joy is that there is a delegation from Kommune-Noreg who now travels to Askøy and has a tour there and is told how they have done it. I have interpreted the Minister of Labour and Administration so that he will continue to press this, and I believe that one of them will have to look at how the other etats – the Labour Market Act, the Social Security Offices and the social services – can cooperate in the best possible way so that the customer who comes in can get the help he needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e867	In his presentation, Sylvia Brustad addressed a number of important issues for regional and regional policy. This shows that the Government attaches great importance to achieving a good policy in this area. But it is difficult to have a regional and regional policy debate without access to our resources and the allocation of resources. All the essentials of our resources are located in District Norway. This applies, for example: fish, forest, mining, power, etc. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister said in his statement: ‘The aim should be to maximise the processing of raw materials in the districts’. Today, too much of the resources are often carried away from the districts. As an example: lately, it has been discovered that there are very many trawlers who do not fulfil their universal service obligations, by delivering their catches outside where the concession terms oblige them to do so. These are jet concessions that have come after strong pressure from politicians and businesses just to secure raw material for businesses that are mostly located in the districts, and I see no need to relax on this. Increased further processing in the fishing industry has been mentioned for very many years. It is therefore gratifying that the Government is committed to investigating plans for a new state/private investment company to contribute to increased further processing at all stages of the fishing industry. Personally, I think this is a lot to pick up. It is important that we also look at the exploitation of our marine mammals, both in terms of pain and in terms of sales, in order to achieve optimum benefits from the fishing industry. Marine mammals kill more fish than Norwegian fishermen are able to catch, and we cannot accept that these species should increase both in number and prevalence. The issue of marine mammals needs to be addressed in its full scope and in close cooperation with our management partners in the areas concerned. That's something the districts are going to earn. In the farming sector too, we have great opportunities, but also major challenges. Norway is currently in the first division for salmon farming. The challenge lies in not letting salmon become a sleeping cushion and an obstacle to bet on other species. In farming, there are new species of fish, such as halibut, cod, bitumen, etc., which will be the future, but also in shellfish, and these opportunities must be exploited. New concessions should be made to the farming industry as soon as possible. In order to speed up innovation and investment in other and new species, it is appropriate to link concessions on salmon and to focus on new species. In the interests of the entire farming industry, it is important that Norway is in the forefront also of these new species. It is more important to give preference to farmers who aim to further develop the industry through the breeding of new species than to give more concessions to those who already have enough concessions to continue producing only salmon. Breeding is a typical district industry and should also be so in the future. Research efforts must be increased and carried out in close cooperation with industry. Breeding is also an industry that offers great opportunities for women's jobs, both for those with normal education and for those with higher education. In order to obtain viable districts, it is particularly important to facilitate women’s workplaces, as the Minister also points out in his investigation by ‘assessing the development of a specific outlying strategy aimed specifically at women’. In order to exploit the potential of rural areas, it is also important that we have an infrastructure to ensure that products are brought into the market as quickly as possible. In particular, winter time is poor in very many areas, and this needs to be improved. Therefore, my claim is that good county economics and good municipal economy are also good district policies. ‘A good rural policy is also a good common policy’, says the Minister in his statement, and I agree with that. But then the Sameeting as a People's Chosen Body must become a more active co-player in order to create jobs in the Sami regions, instead of being a brake pad for natural development in these areas. The highest unemployment rate is found in the Sami areas, where the unemployment rate in some municipalities is over 10 pst. The main challenge lies in ensuring sustainable jobs based on the resources available in the areas, while adapting the reindeer industry to the renewable grazing resources and stopping overgrazing, especially in winter grazing areas. In this work, the Sameting should be an active co-player. The interaction between districts and centres will be very important in the future. The overall provision of services and the opportunities for a varied range of services for both sexes will be essential for a successful rural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e900	Norway has a very expensive rural policy in economic terms. Building Norway currently has a wide range of generous instruments to ensure both housing and industrial development in the more pig-grown districts of this country. Nevertheless, we still have a moving current that goes from the districts and into the central struts and the big cities. During the year, half of Norway’s population will live in the eastern region. At the latest today, researcher Kjetil Sørlie at the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research states to the newspaper Our Country that «the centralisation will shoot further speed over the next 10-15 years». The question that then comes up is whether the current district policy has been particularly successful or whether it is a solid misstatement and that there is a need for completely different ways of thinking. The established Norwegian district policy has long been characterised by traditional thinking and similar little new. That is the case, as stated in the Brustad State Council’s statement on district policy. The statement was as it has always used to be: an uncritical condolences to the prevailing district policy thinking with a little self-contained spice about the renewal of the public sector. More facts that are of major importance to the districts were, as usual, omitted from the presentation of the Council of State. But I'll allow myself to mention some of them. Of the practical things that are essential for strengthening Building Norway, among other things. the reduction of distance drawbacks by lowering charges at distances. In other words, we have to lower the high costs of transporting goods and persons in the districts. We have to do something with the strange car and fuel taxes that are a drag for both value-creating businesses and residents elsewhere in our very long-term country. But this significant problem does not concern either the Workers' Party or the Centre's parties in particular. We have received in our party a bunch of letters from both the centre party rapporteurs, Christian People's Party rapporteurs and workers' party rapporteurs from the whole country, where they have lamented in high order the handicap it means for their regions and their districts and peripheral municipalities to have the extremely high fuel charges. However, these rapporteurs' own parties have themselves imposed the highest charges on the world at a distance through the charging system. In addition, we have had problems with the differentiated employer's fee. This straw may be abolished through the EEA via ESA. And then the Norwegian districts are really thin. Why are these important points not mentioned in the State Council statement? Another aspect of regional importance is the need for reform of agricultural policy. We need to open up the rural areas and primary industries to new actors, to new people with a desire and interest in investing in primary industries, but then we need to reconsider removing both the concession and the nobility legislation for agriculture in order to create a renewed interest in the agricultural industry that embraces the nobility of farmers. But here, too, the Workers' Party and the Centres are united to imitate the primary industries of the peasant families. This is a misguided policy that seems to be in conflict with its purpose, and when is this fact really to be realized? Of course, it is also a matter of giving Norwegian industry a competitive environment in general. Taxes and charges are too high in Norway. An example is that timber transport is 35 pst. more expensive in Norway than in Sweden and Finland, and it costs the districts and the forest industry 200 million. kr extra annually. The extent to which districts will succeed in the future depends on the attractiveness of Building Norway as both a business location option and a housing option. And then tax policy, transport policy, agricultural policy and tourism policy become crucial. Taking more into account these important framework conditions, there is an abundance of opportunities that will secure the future of District Norway. If you don't, I think unfortunately that researcher Kjetil Sørlie can get even more straighter than what goes out of the paper today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e922	I am pleased that one of the government's regional policy ambitions is to develop robust regions where the interaction between city and country is central. Strong regions are an effective instrument of rural policy, and the Government will give high priority to this in all parts of the country. As I said instead, a survey that was published today shows that twice as many move to the Eastern region as to the rest of the country. And it's in this region the big cities are lying. I'd like to take the big cities. It is in the big cities that we find the largest and most varied education offer, the labour market, leisure and cultural life. All six major cities have higher education institutions, either universities or colleges. In big cities, there is also a short distance from good collective services. In addition, all major cities enjoy closeness to hospitals and high medical coverage. This doesn't mean that everything is rosy in the big cities. This is also where we find the greatest differences in living conditions and the greatest poverty. Many city dwellers are plagued by noise and dust and poor living conditions. At the same time, freedom and individualism, with which large cities in particular attract, can be dangerous. Russ abuse, crime, loneliness and poverty are found more often in City-Norway than in District-Norway. It's this kind of social problem that creates the greatest inequalities, especially in Oslo. We were listening to the news this morning – and it is probably also coming in an interview later today – that the representative Lars Rise wants to send drug addicts in Oslo home to the municipalities they come from. He saw them as a problem for Oslo. Now, in Norway, people can move where they want, and one of the problems Oslo has is that refugees and immigrants who have been granted a residence permit and are integrated into the municipalities of Norway move to the big cities, mainly Oslo, where they gather in special urban areas. We in the Workers' Party have therefore paid particular attention to Oslo's inner East, because this is a significant problem of living conditions for groups of the population. Both the State and the Municipality of Oslo have committed themselves, through cooperation, to long-term efforts in the inner eastern parts of the city to improve the environment and housing and develop good welfare services for the population. In Oslo, an action plan for the Middle East of Oslo has been established. Here the state contributes 50 million. kr every year. In addition, the State budget for 1999 established a separate capital grant of up to 300 million. kr. The reason for this special compensation to Oslo is that Stortinget considers it to have special tasks as its capital. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that a local politician in Oslo withdraws the opportunity they had through the property tax, which actually amounts to half a billion kroner – so that there are opportunities for Oslo to get some extra income if they want it. Several other major cities, such as Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger, are beginning to have the same problems as we see in Oslo. The size currently addresses the forecast of income and living conditions in Norway. Here, housing prices and housing in major cities – and especially in Oslo – will be the main theme, as land prices and construction costs are higher in cities. The housing cooperative that started 50 years ago as a social dwelling builder is not today. I believe that we need to create a housing construction programme that has a solid social profile and that must apply primarily to the big cities. It should include an extended framework for the Husbank. It's almost not used in the big cities, and especially in Oslo, it's not used much. In addition, it should include rental homes for young and disadvantaged people. In the case of rental properties, it was a prerequisite that municipalities should contribute to the organisation of plots. What we feel is that the municipalities operate in Norway today is to sell the plots at market prices, so that it is not so easy to find suitable rental homes. Furthermore, we have to get lower deposits of dwellings, and we have to go in with grants to elderly and care homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e941	I want to stay a little bit with state localization policy. Former State Council Odd Roger Enoksen addressed government localisation policy in a thorough and broad manner in its regional and regional policy statement of 20 April 1999. It pointed to two main questions. Firstly, work on increasing the location of government tasks covering a national market outside Oslo. We have been so far in the debate on many examples of this, for example. Directorates can well be located outside Oslo, whether it is now in Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim or Tønsberg. We also have other examples of deployment, such as the Brønnøsund registers, the Purchasing Centre, the Mo National Library and the Kirkenes Contribution Centre. The Bondevik government shattered the principle that, as a general rule, new state tasks should be located outside Oslo, and that location to the capital must have a very special justification. The second main issue is how to deal with the forthcoming reorganisation and efficiency measures in nation-wide state institutions that operate locally and regionally. Several concrete demands were made for state services in district municipalities affected by these country-wide structural changes. Keyword: ease of use and availability, relocation of tasks to places with available capacity, service offices, cooperation with the municipalities concerned, on alternative jobs. That's why I waited with excitement for what the state council Brustad was going to say about state location. Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Sylvia Brustad was sadly little concrete when she spoke about state localisation policy on 4 May in her regional and regional policy statement. The Council of State said that there is a need for a state localisation policy, and that: ‘The government will take action to address major migration problems resulting from the closure of public activities. We must follow closely if the conversion processes are particularly unfortunate for the districts." This was stated in the council's maul, but was not carried out from the Parliament's pulpit. This is going to be too defensive. The Bondevik Government has already produced a report on the decentralisation of government tasks, in the light of the Adult Declaration. by means of information and communication technologies. The report points to several possible functions that can be decentralised favourably. In concrete terms, there is mention of new judicial administration, prison directorate, civil law directorate, lottery supervision, separation of university and higher education matters, sports management and the Production Unit of the Coastal Plant. In addition to the review of the departments which has taken place, the Directorates should also carry out tasks in this area. It is also necessary to hold a debate on the relocation of institutions. We have several good examples that relocation can give new impetus to institutions, necessary conversion and savings in public budgets. On 9 May, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs sent out a press release pointing to where state investment went. In 1998, a total of 69 pst went. to central areas. It is necessary that the state in its policy allocates the pressure in a completely different way from what has happened in the past. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State, Brustad, in its statement, said that the North Norway bet will continue. I hope that means that municipalities that are struggling to speed up their fishing business may be able to get the required molo. I am thinking not least of the municipality of Kvänangen, to which I have referred in previous debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e972	In an intriguing regional policy statement, the Minister of State stresses the need for a balanced development between ecological, economic and welfare conditions. She calls for robust regions – with the necessary interaction between the city and the country. Norway has the best district policy in the world. We're gonna be proud of that. But we should also be able to have the ambition to achieve the world's best urban and urban policies. In this regard, I would like to refer to the article to Leif Lund about the very big city problem, which I think was excellent. In Europe, urban and urban development as a European and not least an international area of cooperation is now being given great importance. Let me just say that there are historical reasons why we haven't traditionally had any urban policies. While in most countries the square and village were the center of social development, and the village the natural settlement, the clawed northern men got stuck in the fjords and mountain sides, broken the clearing and traveled small farms. We don't have a long tradition here for the collective institution that the city community is. However, future economic growth and development depend on strong regions and on interactions between the Oslo region and the rest of the country in a mutual sense. The Oslo region may be the only real metropolitan region in Norway — in good and bad. In this region, one-fifth of the population of Norway lives. Prognosis tells us that over the next 15 years, maybe another 75 000 will move to Oslo and 45,000 to Akershus. It is important that the region is seen in a context. It is essential that the development of Oslo and neighbouring countries be seen together in terms of both the environment, transport, industrial policy, housing policy, health and living conditions. For example, car traffic across the city border increased to Oslo by 40 pst. from 1984 to 1996, and may increase by a new 40 pst. the next 15 years without a major expansion of the public transport network. This is an environmental challenge, not just for Oslo and its surroundings, but for the whole country. It's about our Kyoto commitments. The region has 50 pst. of the country's overall research environment, and therefore has a great responsibility for the country's value creation in the new technological society. We're too bad here. The country average for innovation is 15 pst., while the average in Europe now is 32 pst. – with the Øresund connection and Malmø/København area we breathed into the neck. With Berlin as the German capital, the Baltic Sea region is strengthened as a gigantic growth centre also in our neighboring team. There is now a growing need for cooperation between the research communities in the Oslo region under the direction of the University of Oslo to create a regional development. Oslo is Norway's capital, with tasks and obligations to the whole country, and a regional centre. But first of all, Oslo is a local community where 500,000 people have to live and work – a big city with an emerging local identity, the only multicultural society we have, a big city where the living conditions are bigger than elsewhere. A future policy must include policies for the metropolitan and metropolitan areas. A government urban development programme needs to be built around welfare, public sector renewal, mitigation, housing, industrial development and urban culture. The entrance ticket to the residential market for young people needs to be significantly lowered. Among other things, a State and municipal rental housing programme and associated financial instruments should be established. Equivalent services require action with the income system. Oslo has some very specific challenges that may require a more criteria-based distribution, at least a review of the criteria that exist. We will also hear more about this later today, I understand. I think it is important to add that in this area there is also a market for privatisation, not least in school and health. If the public sector is to be competitive, we have to make sure that people feel that they are getting the services they think they are entitled to. It is also an important part of a metropolitan policy, which is also the responsibility of the State with the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e998	I note with interest that the majority of the representatives of the Workers' Party who have spoken have largely talked about urban policy and not district policy when dealing with the presentation of district policy. It could be because other parties have been focusing on those questions lately, and that it has made you feel the need to make a difference in this area. But it's almost pathetic when the representative Leif Lund refers to the metropolitan grant without mentioning that it came as a compensation for taking it twice from the Municipality of Oslo by removing the corporate tax. Later on, it's like you've strengthened Oslo when you've actually weakened the city's ability to solve the problems yourself. So far. I have also read with interest a press release from the Council of State two days ago, which has taken Aplan Viak's report as revenue so that the wishes of the Right City Party at the Right National Meeting could not be met. But I want to make it clear that there are no right-wing city parties that have talked about state investment. What they've been talking about is the desire to get a large enough amount of revenue so that they can provide an equivalent service to their inhabitants in relation to the population in other parts of the country getting. They have pointed out the special social problems that exist in cities, and some other issues that are not taken into account. They have also pointed out that some schemes, such as: social welfare schemes for sports facilities and for cultural activities should also be more closely linked to the weight of the population, so that young people in the larger cities have the same opportunity to have active leisure time as those in other parts of the country. But it has not been focused on state investment. And that's not so nice. It's not because 69 pst. According to this report, state investment goes to the big cities – I will come back to them – but it is simply because state investment amounts to 5 pst. of all investments in this country. It's peanuts in the big context. Every year, 300 billion dollars are invested in Norway. The government invested DKK 15 billion in 1998. So out of the 15 billion, according to this report, 69 went pst. to the big cities. But think about what we were doing in 1998! Then we went to the Gardermo building and all the exceedances in the Rikshospitalet. There are many representatives here who really don't want to give more money to the big cities, who have voted for the Rikshospitale. But building exceedances and spending more money on investment in the Rikshospitalet doesn't necessarily give the Municipality of Oslo a better chance to solve, for example. the problems of the roughness. I also want to take advantage of the opportunity to say a little about the reason for, for example. the choice of the Gardermoen. It wasn't primarily a reason from those who were really exponents to want airport at Gardermoen, that they were to strengthen Oslo and the big cities. No, the current representative of Hedmark, the current municipal minister, who has thus expressed his opinion on this report, said the following in the debate on the Gardermoen: ‘If one chooses the Gardermoen, it will be a loving contribution to growth in the internal eastern region. Business will have more legs on it, and the labour market will be expanded for people in and around the Gardermo. I guess it's not to flout in today's situation either. The aerodrome will be a power centre capable of generating nutrient growth and settlement in a larger area.’» So it was district policy for Hedmark we discussed first and foremost when it was about the location of the Gardermo, not helping Oslo. Then they might have chosen completely different things, which would have given better traffic solutions. A proposal has been made today. We do not disagree with looking at the issue of state localisation policy in the future. Nor do we disagree that there are tasks that today are done by the state, which may be relocated, and that particular new tasks should be considered for deployment. But we think in a way that it should come naturally, and have no desire for us to adopt a special plan for this. For there are several considerations to be included in each individual assessment of services, not least in which environment they are best placed. This also applies in relation to State investment in the future. They are adopted every year by the State budget. There's nothing the government makes up of itself. We decide on each project every year when we deal with the state budget. So we get that plan up every single time. We believe that the Council of State should put this at its heart, that we want to look at better distribution of both investment and location in the future. But it's a paradox that if, for example, The hospital in Trondheim had not been state-owned, but state-owned, the largest expansion project we had with state investment in the next few years would actually be in Trondheim and not in Oslo or Hordaland or in any of the other regions. It's a bit random what's state-owned and what's other public investment. We expect the Council of State to come back with these perspectives, and ask the proposers to turn this into a transmission proposal, because there are more perspectives than just territorial considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1018	The government will focus on the development of robust regions, of course adapted to Norwegian circumstances. We believe that they will act as engines in the development of District Norway and counteract a unilateral move from the districts. It is a trend across Europe that strong regions are the most effective counterweight against centralisation. Strong regions also mean increased local autonomy. In the next regional and regional policy headlines, coming next spring, we will also review the focus on growth-intensive centres. We want to look at the interaction between the centres, between the parts of the country and between the regions around. The aim is to create coherent and more varied labour market, housing and service regions. We need to ensure a good basis for business and a public sector that works well in relation to the needs of its citizens. It must be accessible to all the inhabitants of the region, including through communication. This is also an important theme in the work on the national transport plan. If people are to live elsewhere than in Oslo and Akershus, we must be able to offer people work, educational opportunities, good welfare, good cultural offers and good living conditions. People's growing desire for many choices in working and cultural life means that we need to ensure an offer that can make the varied life that many want to live. I don't think it's possible to fully implement in all the small and large places of the country. Therefore, we should ensure strong and competitive regions that can accommodate large and small communities. This means, for example: not that we should just bet on Bodø and Tromsø in North Norway. Of course, we continue with a strong district policy, the aim of which is to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. It means bets both on edges, on slightly larger municipalities and on regions. My clear conviction is that if we are to succeed in keeping the settlement up in the districts, we must have the youth with us. I want to be as clear as this: Youth, together with women, is the critical success factor in district policy. My neighbor at home in Engerdal owns a lot of hens. When he was about seven years old, he told me that he would sell the hens and buy shares. The Swedish Jonathan James is 19 years old. He's been helping the FBI track down those who were behind the ILOVEYOU virus last week. Last year he also helped, at the time, find those who planted the data virus "Melissa". He was four years old when he got his first computer. He's been working on programming since he was 13. There are young people in Andøya who make $40,000 while they're still in high school. They are sea-going farmers in farming. There are many examples of young people being willing, capable, flexible and teachable, and not least of understanding the new information technology and the new economy surrounding this growth industry. I'm sick of 30 years, but if we are born in the mid-1960s, we are easily old in relation to the knowledge, the qualities and the cultural understanding that young people have today. I think it is important to bear this in mind when developing district and regional policy. That doesn't mean we're going to focus on the gap between youth and adults, but that means there's a huge challenge in taking young people seriously. The municipality and the community that don't, I think will have a big problem. The struggle for this group is bone-hard, and many in this group of young people, both today and in the future, can get jobs where they want to go in the country, and some will even emigrate to other countries if we don't manage to give them challenges and conditions that make them want to go back, whether it's to Bremen, Steinkjer, Flekkefjord or Tana after school. I am therefore happy to include, among other things: SND takes this seriously and has the philosophy that youth is one of the criteria for success in the edge projects that we have going on. The development of research-based innovation and business in the wake of this will be important fields of action in the future. I believe that a competitive business is crucial for rural settlements. Entrepreneurs who can and will create jobs are very much in need, and people with a keen interest in action and initiative must be welcomed with open arms. At the same time, it is important that we focus on the projects that are targeted and that can be implemented. A good idea isn't enough. It shows all experience in business development. In addition, however, one must either have or relate to competence in a number of areas. Marketing, design, distribution and sales are probably as important as the idea in itself. Moreover, it is important that those who are the owners and stakeholders of the project feel their ownership strongly and have the motivation to achieve concrete objectives within defined timeframes. The threshold is often high before women go to the step of starting their own business. This is unfortunate, especially given that women’s enterprises with small scale production often have the right to life. It is therefore an important task to stimulate women in particular to start-up. It's going to do this government. I think it is important that we listen to those who are involved, not least in this policy area. Otherwise, we don't have the ability to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. Then we have to take seriously the needs of young people and women in particular, if we are to make them return to our districts. Attractive workplaces are important. This is where information technology gives us enormous opportunities. We need to go through the state localisation policy carefully. Everything doesn't have to be in Oslo. But I don't want to force large numbers of people who live and live their lives in small communities in Oslo and its surroundings. But it's probably so that there's a lot of problems that can be moved out, even without a physical set of moving people. Then we must be critical when creating new jobs and public institutions, where they are to be located. Today, people often change jobs. I believe that a flexible and adapted policy can be used, for example. establish sub-offices and major institutions in smaller municipalities. There, as has also been said here today, the Ministry of Labour and Administration has managed a working group that has looked at the possibility of decentralising government tasks, among others. by means of information technology. The report is now in consultation with the deadline in mid-August and, of course, the Government will consider the proposals after that consultation. Income and the provision of a good working environment are essential when people are going to choose a place to live. The same is true in kindergartens, schools, banks, health services, etc. People have to be happy. They must have a meaningful leisure time in association with others. Good cultural services are important in all parts of the country. Organisational life must be characterised by openness, diversity and tolerance, so that everyone feels it is all right to participate in their community. It's my particular impression that it's not enough to offer people jobs when they're going to choose a place to live. For what are we asking people who have moved? We ask, are you enjoying yourself? In any case, the answer I get often tells me that, in addition to work, there are cultural offers, access to leisure activities, nature and recreational opportunities, and access to open social meeting places where a resident lives, important prerequisites for where a resident resides. We must never forget that we are whole people who cannot live on bread alone. This is especially true of our youth. Public poverty is no more widespread in districts than in cities. Nor is it the case that cities in general are tumbling in wealth. The economic divides in our country no longer go between town and country. That, of course, must also be the policy. The greatest differences are found between residents within each municipality. There are few problems with living conditions in some smaller western municipalities and in the high-level areas of cities. Similarly, we find the worst living conditions in some municipalities in Finnmark as well as in the center cores of Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger. Balancing differences between people by setting city and land up against one another is not the way to go. I'll say the opposite. The cities need the districts, and the districts need the cities. The interaction between cities and countries has changed a lot in recent years. People move a lot more than before, and the living conditions have become more balanced. It also means that interdependence has increased. It is important to ensure an evenly distributed settlement, but of course we cannot decide where to live in this country. The districts and cities have different tasks for both business and the population, and we need both according to the government's concepts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1054	There is good reason to ask the Council of State Sylvia Brustad why every year in these reports on district policy there is no mention of a single word about moments of great importance for Building Norway. I think, among other things: on the enormous charges at distances that we have here in the country, read: strange level of charges on means of transport and fuel, which both the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties have turned up to world record levels. I think about the inheritance tax, the property tax and the local ownership. None of it is specifically mentioned. Furthermore, agricultural policy has been identified as perhaps the most important pillar of Norwegian rural policy. With regard to the laws of nobility and concession, which, in my view, seem to be in conflict with their intentions, the mention of this is also completely absent from the statements. Another thing: the future of the differentiated employer fee, which in my view is important – because some outlying municipalities are crucial – is not particularly important either. It is not certain that Norway will be able to continue this differentiated employer fee, which is actually a good support for Norwegian districts. The question is, why are all these important conditions of Utang-Norway never mentioned in these presentations? Is it because the government believes this doesn't matter at all? Can we expect the next statement to contain something about what I have mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1063	I have listened with amazement to the replicator now and to both the representative Andersen and the representative Solholm earlier today and in radio debates when they have commented on my statement. I have to say it amazes me, for it is said that there are things in the statement that are not mentioned that are really mentioned. And then I wonder if the representatives involved did not listen when I made that statement. It was claimed, among other things, that: that there was no mention of transportation. Yes, it did. I said that transportation is important, both for cities and not least in the districts, where it is important that there are communications that work, so that people get access to services across the country. I mentioned the road in particular. It was also claimed that agricultural policy was not mentioned. I have not just realized that the Progress Party is the ones who have been most concerned about having an active agricultural policy across the country. Indeed, agricultural policy was mentioned. It was said that we want an agricultural policy that is an important contribution to preserving the main features of the housing pattern. Earlier this week there has been a great debate about it in this Chamber. Of course, it's the case that communication and transportation are important in a district policy context, and that was also the background that I spent some time on it in the presentation. The fact that the Progress Party in that context seems to be largely concerned with smaller taxes and taxes, is not entirely in touch with the beautiful words that have been said here that the same party supports so to speak my entire explanation. For the consistency of the policy of the Progress Party, with few or no fees, it is true that the community has nothing to pay back to what is necessary to keep the main features of the housing pattern in Norway. That's the consequence, but it says the Progress Party little or nothing about it. Then the Progress Party has been particularly concerned with car diesel taxes etc. I'm not going to say that about today, but I think the representative of the Progress Party and others in the near future will get an answer to what the Government had to think about that particular question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1076	Sylvia Brustad stressed that strong regions are decisive for the bustet pattern, and that's what I wrote down. Does the government want to control the government's investments so that District Norway gets its share of the cake? Does the Council of State think that 11 of 15 billion dollars in 1998 to the central strut were mostly made? The Council of State further stated that state tasks could safely be established outside. But will the Council of State and the Government fail to realize that several of the tasks in the government sector are located in the districts? It has always been possible to do so, but it has never been. Now it's easier to do this because of new technology, but will the government? The municipal minister has promised municipalities more money – and they will need it. But there are 14 municipalities that have had their situation worsened monthly due to the EEA agreement and the absence of a low employer’s fee. Nine of these municipalities are in Hordaland, and both topography – mountain and sea – and road standards make this incomprehensible to us as living there. Would the Minister of Local Affairs agree that these municipalities will receive compensation, as Mr Bondevik said?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1088	With regard to the question of possible compensation to the 14 municipalities that was asked about by the representative Apelthun Seele, there is something that the representative will receive in a short time, but not today. With regard to the issue of state investment and the report we have received from Aplan Viak, which shows that 69 pst. Over a ten-year period, the major cities and areas around them have gone a long way, of course, as has been the case with the government in the wider policy, and not least in the preparation of the next spring regional and regional communication. So to the issue of state localisation policy and the move out of jobs. There is no doubt that the new information technology allows you to move more jobs out, one can create more jobs out of it than we might have been good enough to do up to now. To use a small example from my own country, four jobs have been moved from the Rikstrygdeverket to Stor-Elvdal using information technology. It means a lot in the Great River valley, but it doesn't mean much that they're no longer at the centre of the Reich Ironworks. So it's clear that there are enormous opportunities here, and I don't think there should be any doubt that this government is also very concerned about it. It is also the case that with the major reorganisations that we are now undergoing within many of the public authorities, such as the postal sector, the Equation Service, the social services, etc., which will require some centralisation due to technological developments, there is even greater reason to make sure that one also uses the opportunities that exist there to provide jobs in other ways through information technology. There are huge opportunities here, and there should be no doubt that both the Government and I are going to be careful to also have an active policy in this area. Then, as I said, we now have a report on the decentralisation of jobs out at the hearing until mid-August, and we will, of course, also come back to some of it after that hearing is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1101	Let me make an attempt to further clarify what lies behind the presentation and debate by the municipal minister. Of the most concrete things that have been mentioned so far, the role of the SND and a certain cultural effort – at least now in the debate – have emerged as factors that should have a certain significance. But my first question will be whether it is also a matter of looking at the rules of the divisional model and the level of the wealth tax, and insofar as the issue of inheritance tax, as mentioned earlier, is concerned, so that a robust regional business life can be put in place. Furthermore, there is a question of the modernisation process in the public sector. Are we told who is going to premise for this modernisation process? For example, if the public sector employee organisations are to govern the willingness to launch competition and possible structural changes, it will itself give signals as to the rate at which we can expect. And finally, this exciting structural question. If we were to be so lucky that we got a competent, generally combined, basic level of government and perspective for these regions crumbling a little bit, it is conceivable that the Council of State could land on a two-tier system, with today's prestigious savings, where billions of money at the middle level clearly point out as a savings gain that can come, without burden on the recipients, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1114	I'd like to answer the last one first, about the organisation of administration levels forward-ward. The Workers' Party has not, and therefore the Government has not, concluded on what the solution will be, but the timetable is as follows: We get the option from the Task Distribution Committee on 1 July, or at least not until July. Then it's going to the hearing. Then we have a national meeting in the Workers' Party at the end of November, and then I aim to present a case to the Stortinget next spring about changes in the administrative structure. What it has to be, I can't conclude, but it's no secret either that one of the most recent options is to merge states, so that we get larger regions. That's what we're looking at. But the purpose of having an open and prejudiced discussion about this is partly that we see that the way we have today organized our management system and our levels of administration, not always serving the users. All developments indicate, as I see it, that we need more cooperation across borders, and that borders, whether between municipalities or counties, become less important. We see it not least in health policy, where we now have a regional health committee, that there is an area that is screaming for more cooperation. That is what we see in most areas. There is one argument to consider going other ways in relation to the organisation of the state level that we have today. And besides, there's another important point, and that's that we want to spend less on both people and resources on administration and control, and we want to use more people in direct service production and help people where they are. These are two main objectives and two main reasons why it is right to go through this, and we will have to draw the final conclusions at the national meeting of the Labour Party – at least for our part – at the end of November. On the issue of the renewal of the public sector, which is very important for this government, there is a little in the same street. We need an open and prejudiced debate on how we can do that. It's about merging things, it's about doing the control work less than it is today. And then, of course, all actors will have to be involved in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1123	The difference between today's distribution and last year's is primarily the level of ambition. Unfortunately, the working party has lowered the ambitions of District Norway in relation to the central government. The centre party wants a policy for living cities, we want robust regions and regional centers, but we don't stop there. In the many district municipalities, we find both natural resources and human resources that we think are important both to preserve and to give new opportunities. When we say we want to use the whole country, it applies outside Oslo and Akershus – yes. It applies to regional centres – yes. But it also applies to focusing on the possibilities of the individual municipality – a signal of a positive belief that district councils can count on not only fine words, but also cooperation and concrete action in the future. In the debate on last year's distribution, the head of the municipal committee, Sylvia Brustad, said, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘A weak local economy is particularly unfortunate for the outlying and district municipalities.’ I want to give Brustad the opportunity to confirm that she is both on her statement and will work to follow it up. I also want to give her the opportunity to confirm that she follows up the report of the cross-ministerial group that looks at state labour and decentralization, when it has been out on the ears, with a plan towards the Storting. It should have a reasonable time for the 2001 budget, and it will be a very important signal beyond regional centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1135	It is not right at all that this government has lowered the level of ambition in district policy compared to the previous government. I take a great distance from that. It is also a fact that the central government with the central party leader in the Municipal Council failed to do what the Central Party has said in many rounds; they were unable to maintain the population in all the municipalities of the country. They also failed to reverse the movement flow, as was said to happen. It is also not right when it is said from the centre party team that the Workers' Party does not have a stake in the outlying – i.e. for the districts – district policy. I have said quite clearly from the presentation, and I have also tried to repeat it here today, that in our district policy there is still a special effort on the outskirts. But the point is that we believe, to a greater extent than the Center Party, that if we're going to be able to maintain the main features of the housing pattern, then we also need to be able to have strong regions, both as a buffer against further centralization and as an engine throughout district development. We can't meet all the demands people have on all the small and large places around the country. That's why it's important that the regions are strong, and that they can meet most of the demands that people might have. If not, I think even more people are going to settle especially in the central eastern region. And if we're going to do something about it, we think it's very important to have strong regions. When I've also focused a lot on the relationship between city and country, that it's just as important that we have a good district policy as a good urban policy and vice versa, it's because we're mutually dependent on both parts working, if we're also going to make district policy work. There I have probably experienced in some contexts that the Centre Party has tried to create a contradiction, and I don't think that serves either city policy or district policy. As far as the local economy is concerned, of course, what I have said in the past is that the local economy is also important in a regional policy context. What the government is going to propose there, Mr. Kleppa's reply was received on 19 May. But it is clear that the local economy in general is an important issue for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1146	It is true that it is the municipal economy that is the cornerstone of district policy, and SV has great expectations of what the government will get into that context, because it will be all very important if we are to succeed. I am pleased that the Council of State in its contribution now placed such emphasis on youth, research and education. She's supposed to get whole-hearted support from S.B. on that. It's an important and a right angle. So it remains to be seen what lies in the Workers' Party's regional effort, if not there will be a regionalized centralisation. That might be reason to fear. I had in my post a visit to the example of Hedmark and Uppland and the freedom of coordination that was to take place there, and explained how it went. I could imagine asking the Council of State how she views it, whether it would not have been a good idea to let the agencies go any further so that they actually got the freedom to do what the districts – or the regions, if the Council of State rather likes it – think is right. Finally, again, the differentiated employer’s fee is thus allowed to remain in the present form only until 2003. What is the reason why this government does not consider it necessary to assess the impact of the essentially large conversions made in the EFTA judgment and that we need to look at alternative regimes, for example. an extended transport aid scheme, which requires a long investigation period? What is the reason why we don't start a proper investigation in this area, so that it doesn't come like the Christmas evening on the ring and we sit with the beard in the mailbox – and the districts get dizzy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1157	It is true, as the representative Karin Andersen says, that in the project that is going on between Hedmark and Oppland, called the 'Morgen Land', not all state agencies are involved. I take with me the signals that Andersen has in relation to it. With regard to the specific question that the representative mentioned earlier in his statement on training provision in relation to lone-parents, I am aware that there will be a meeting between representatives of Hedmark County Municipality and the State Council Jørgen Kosmo on that matter tomorrow. With regard to the issue of the employer’s fee, there is no doubt that this is a very important part of district and regional policy. It is also quite right for the representative, Andersen, to say that it has been approved for the first time until 2003. That means we have some time to get around, and that's what the government is going to do. There is no doubt that with the great importance that this support has, it is clear that we will not simply give it up – let me put it that way. I would also like to say, since someone has asked about it: the fact that I did not mention this scheme in the statement does not mean that we do not think it is important. We're very aware of this, we're following very closely, and we're not going to let go of it without thinking about what might have to happen instead, if that would be the situation. With regard to the representative’s questions about the regions we are now considering establishing – whether or not it should be the result – there is no need for any new centralisation measures, to put it that way. It is more a recognition that we are not doing, with the structure we have today at our levels of government, to a large extent enough to provide the services that our citizens and users both expect and have enough demands, in a good enough way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1166	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1170	The council said we shouldn't set city and districts up against each other, and I think she'll get a lot of support for it. For the debate we have had now, very clearly shows a common desire and a common goal for all of us to have a viable settlement throughout this long country. It's possible it's more than a wish; this may be a necessity if we're going to have a well-functioning society in total, where our resources can be managed and exploited in a wise and long-term way. This requires a business life with framework conditions and predictability adapted to the establishment and operation of our branches, and it requires a well-developed infrastructure, of course, so that it can be stable and good conditions and prospects for young people. Different instruments have been used to achieve this; they are also among the challenges we face in the future. It requires that the population within our valleys and along our coasts be given the opportunity to manage the resources based on their experience and knowledge. These are also things that lie within this debate and in the models laid down for the districts. Still, the problem is that people move out of the districts. In this context, they are moving somewhere, and they are moving particularly to the central eastern regions. You can look for explanations about this, and that's good, you might even find answers that allow you to apply the right measures, but the actual conditions are a huge move to the Eastern region today. Normal population growth manages the countryside, it manages the municipalities and the counties; they plan for it. But when there's such a population increase that we've now had in recent years, and as it looks like we're going to have in the future, we're facing completely different kinds of problems. We see what happens to the housing prices. We see what happens when people come moving this way, so many in such a short time – then we get huge investment needs. There are no schools, there are no hospitals, there are no hospitals. All of these things have to be in place where people have chosen to move to. It makes investments huge for these areas now. These investments have a cost of capital which, in turn, affects an already relatively low budget. In this discussion, it is also necessary to include these actual real conditions that we face in parts of Norway. So Oslo and the central eastern regions are in such a situation now. You could want people to stay in the districts, or they could move there – and maybe we'll get it done. But the situation that exists today must be resolved. It has to be that in areas where people have chosen to settle down, choose to live for a shorter or longer time, the offers have to be almost as useful and have the same quality as in the rest of the country. This is part of this debate that we have to take inwards. We're facing two issues as far as I can understand. One is to stop the movement and depopulation in parts of Norway. The second is to see the needs that arise where people move to. The central struts cannot live on a hope or a belief that the districts will flourish again – they certainly do; with the good policy that the current government puts up, I think it will happen, but it is a bit yours at all probability. And in this period, we also have to look at this part of the impact on district policy and the consequences of people's desire to settle down in the central strata: it might seem that when you look for answers, you should also look at the possibility that today's youth actually has a slightly more urban orientation, urban attitude, than it had in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1183	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1186	The rural policy of the Labour Party is based on three main pillars, which have been the repeaters in the debate: the development of robust regions, the development of a competitive business and the renewal of the public sector. Service, housing and labour market regions shall be an instrument to counter unilaterally move to larger cities and stimulate resettlement and resettlement. For the Workers' Party, strong regions are countering centralisation, and – as the Council of State also said – it means much to local self-government. We have to give those who are going to rule locally, real opportunities to rule. A region is something more than a region center. Outside and around the regions, access to employment, education, housing and services must be real. Recently, we have seen examples of the fact that access to broadband networks for district enterprises will be crucial. Examples are the fact that companies from the West had to move into central areas because broadband access was non-existent. The development of broadband networks throughout the country should therefore be a public responsibility. I'm always surprised by people who are so sure of how to solve the challenges we're facing, for example. in the field of regional policy. It's not like that, for example. The Progress Party has tried to give the impression in the debate that only we are removing the inheritance tax and reducing the diesel tax, we have solved the major challenges facing the districts. It's not like that! It's in many ways that when we solve a challenge in one area, we actually create a new challenge on another. It's so hugely complex, this society that we live in. I think that freedom of choice, for example. for the individual within the framework of Community solutions, one of the most important principles is also in the field of district policy. It is important for districts to recognise that small communities are not always the most liberal or inclusive societies towards people with a behavioral pattern that differs significantly from the norm, such as: homophiles and people with a different skin colour. These are people who often hide the towns and hide themselves in the larger cities. This is part of Oslo's and the major city's problems. The challenges are many, and they require different answers. None of the answers are simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1203	There is no reason to hide that the Centre Party – and I – strongly disagree with the regional thinking of the Workers' Party Government. This scepticism was heightened after hearing the embrace of this thinking by the Party of Advancement, Lodve Solholm, in his contributions today. In his statement on regional policy, municipal minister Brustad stressed that districts depend on strong regions to slow the flow of migration into the big cities. Brustad turns into regional councils, not districts. The centre party believes cities are important in a comprehensive district policy. But it helps North Norway, for example. if Bodø and Tromsø grow if the surrounding country and the districts are moved? There is no doubt that this very one-sided investment in the regions will go beyond the outing and the whole district block that the central government provided. There is reason to remember the government and labor party government that the removal flow from the part of the country I come from reached record heights at the end of the Jagland government period. We also know that this negative development entered a much more positive path in the period of government of the centre parties. I'm not saying that it was the profits of the central government alone, but there's little doubt that the offensive and systematic investment of the central government, not least former municipal minister Odd Roger Enoksen, in district policy, has been positively perceived and has produced results. A lot remains. It is therefore important that the Labour Party and the Government in their district policies do not seek support from the market liberal forces in the Progress Party and the Right. The centre party is set to contribute to a district policy aimed at bringing the whole country into operation. At the moment, however, Brustad and the Government are back where Kjell Opseth escaped when he was the municipal minister of the Jagland government. It's a policy that doesn't work. The districts have stagnated with such a policy. Regional centres need to be developed in order to provide a wide range of services to the population, but this should not mean that the focus is shifted from the districts. For the sake of order: the centre party – and I – want a good urban policy, but it must not be at the expense of bets in the districts. In many parts of the 1990s, overinvestment in the eastern region has been over-invested from a regional policy perspective, with strong pressures on the rest of the country in terms of labour and the need to slow down regional investment. The consequences of this policy will be that rural areas will not be able to develop the necessary infrastructure. Investments in new transport infrastructure solutions are concentrated in key areas with high population density. The losses become the districts in which the transport of goods takes place and where production enterprises are facing increasing difficulties in meeting the market’s demand for security of supply. I can't see that the government is giving a concrete answer to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1226	The Labour Party has for all years formulated its district policy following the slogan ‘By and land, hand in hand’. It has produced good results. The Labour Party wants people to be able to choose where they want to live. That means that people who want to live in cities must also be allowed to do it. I am pleased that the Minister of State has underlined the need for strong regions and strong centres. Investing in regions and strong community centres can mean that young people move not to Oslo but to nearby cities. Young people have different desires than previous generations had. They want easier access to services, they want to pursue sport, have easier access to cultural services and live in wider communities, and, in particular, they want easier access to knowledge environments. Cities act as important hubs. In this context, it is important to see the relationship between labour market, housing and service regions. Municipalities such as Stange, Hamar, Ringsaker, Elverum, Tynset and Kongswinger are strong centres and cities in Hedmark, and they have been curbed for the relocation from the county. A pilot project has been established in Hedmark and Uppland, called the ‘Morgen Land’, focusing on the conversion and development of the two counties. I have registered that the Prime Minister has called for the removal of the county municipalities. These are thoughts that I find very interesting, and that all parties should take the time to discuss with an open mind. Of course, this cannot happen overnight, but it should be an objective that the levels of government have such a structure that they work for the benefit of people. The working party will work to strengthen the public sector so that everyone, irrespective of the income and place of residence of the individual, can get the help they need on the day of the need. Dwelling in districts requires an efficient and good public sector that can best manage public sector resources for the benefit of its citizens. Access to public offices should be facilitated, and I would like to mention here that many municipalities have established public service offices where citizens can seek help, regardless of whether they are going to visit the social office, the equality office or the employment office. In the Løten municipality they have had this model for several years, and the inhabitants are satisfied. However, in order for the municipality’s inhabitants to reach densely populated areas and access to services, the districts need good communications. Transport challenges are, as the Minister of State correctly pointed out, different in peripheral municipalities than in the major cities, but better road standards are important for the competitiveness of industry in all areas. Good progress is good district policy, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1243	This is what the President has noticed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1246	Norway is the society of opportunities: well-developed welfare schemes, rich natural resources, low unemployment, educational opportunities and cultural traditions. These opportunities are important to distribute across the country, as we first get to use both human and natural resources. These opportunities are especially for young people who are in demand, and then society has to meet the young in their arena. Let the young people move out, but let them all come home again. So society must have something to offer, both jobs, welfare schemes and not least culture. Norway has been very proud of an active district policy in the postwar period. We are now in a position to maintain a scattered settlement and living settlements because the socialist society knows that the market forces cannot control district policy, politicians must do so, with clear signals from the district population. Today, we experience that centralisation is speeding up, and many of the former district agencies can no longer be used. For example, the public sector has: has been the largest growth industry in the districts. Among other things, workplaces are linked to schools, telecommunications, postal services and hospitals, etc. local workplaces. In fact, over a period of time, this growth replaced job losses in primary industries and industry in the districts. Unfortunately, many small outlying municipalities are currently experiencing significant public restrictions. This creates both unemployment and poor services. I think most of all about the Post, which the Council of State also mentioned in particular in its presentation. In my municipality, Fauske, in the worst case, we can lose 30-40 jobs, not only in the despatch network, but because of the new terminal structure – and that in a municipality with over 5 pst. unemployment as a whole. It is then gratifying to record that the Council of State will address the personnel consequences of restructuring by establishing cooperation across the ministerial boundaries. This is an action that will undoubtedly speed up the work of service offices, and in addition, we are being harnessed by existing technological and human resources. I believe that strengthening the regional centres is of great value. This will be reflected in future moves to the major cities, but there is still a danger that the population will be reduced in the outlying municipalities. It results in a failure of the local economy and a loss of competence, and it becomes difficult to maintain the service provision. This will now be brought to the fore by the Government, among others. a recently adopted good agricultural policy and with good economic development through today's technological opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1259	District and regional policies are primarily concerned with rural policy. But today we know that the biggest problems are in cities and the central ones. If this type of debate continues to focus on districts and big cities with little attention, perhaps we should receive annual urban policy presentations in the Stortinget. There's a lot of good reasons for that, and some of them we'll come back to in a subsequent interpellant debate. The Oslo region has a quarter of its population, and many of the problems and challenges are also the responsibility of the State. Big cities have challenges other than districts, but they are no less demanding. The influx into central struts increases the need for housing, jobs, transport, welfare, culture and recreational services. The Oslo region is the main airport and Norway’s main port of the country’s leading hub for an increasingly internationalised business life, and therefore national industrial policy must include both districts and major cities. Regional cooperation is also important here, and I want more and more closer cooperation. I also believe that the proposal to merge Oslo and Akershus is overly mature. In short, I would like to point out the great and sometimes enormous problems that exist in the big cities related to social problems. There are major differences in living conditions, and the largest difference in the country is found internally here in the city. Of course, Oslo's politicians have to take their responsibility for solving local problems in line with other local politicians in the rest of the country, but there are some measures that need national political help. I want to mention the bet on the Oslo inner east, which has been very good, and the results are very good. The Council of State was early out of the question of dealing with housing policy, with the lack of housing. That's good. The aim is to guarantee everyone the right to a good housing in a good living environment. Not everyone experiences it this way, but I have great faith that the Government will do something in this area. I would also like to mention that Oslo has very serious environmental problems related to the growth of road traffic. These are health problems first and foremost, so we're waiting for Oslopackak 2. Big-city problems are special. We may need a joint debate, and I hope that the Council of State will think through whether we can get a statement on this. A few years ago, I suggested that Stortinget lay a housing complex for its representatives on the east side. I meant it seriously, because I was hoping that the staging representatives would get a different picture of Oslo from what they get when they go through the Castle Park. It didn't happen, but I hope and still believe that we should be able to focus more on the major urban problems. There are many people who have spoken about this today, and perhaps we should separate big-city policy from district policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1280	For the Christian People's Party, building and further developing the districts is a choice of value. The Value Commission has just carried out a large survey of good communities and concludes with seven pillars for such a good community. I'm not going to mention all seven, but just focus on the first one, where they stress that local community, local identity, sense of place, pride of home and local culture and tradition are very important to people living in Building Norway. The sense of place and the pride of residence in District Norway are strongly pushed by international trends and by policy-making concepts such as ‘unprofitability’ and ‘subsidy’. We are an unprofitable and subsidized race, we who live in District Norway. I will take a few examples: we hear about unprofitable post offices in the districts. But how profitable would post offices in cities be if they were just sending mail to the few other profitable post offices? We read passenger statistics for the airports and learn that the Gardermo is profitable, while the short-haul airports live on the mercy of the city people because they have so few travelers. But where will Gardermoen get passengers from if you can't travel around Norway? Everyone doesn't travel to Brussels or London, and many of us going there don't start the trip in Oslo at all. And why is it subsidizing when a boat route receives public support, but not when we big-time politicians take it very expensive the Gardermoban? That's what we could still have. But I hope that this illustrates that we are totally dependent on each other in this country, whether we live in the city or we live in the district, and that the question of who is profitable and who is unprofitable is really an impossible question to ask. When people move from the districts and to the centre, it has a lot to do with psychology and trends, and it's very important that we politicians don't build up under the myth and lose faith that trends can be reversed. Right-wing big business, presented by Per-Kristian Foss a short time ago, and the Progress Party's constant proposal on cutbacks in transfers to District Norway, is, in my view, a good contribution to continued myth building on the unprofitable and subsidized districts. Furthermore, it must be said that the regional policy statement that we have debated today is not exactly oozing of optimism for District Norway. I think we might need politicians who dare stand up and say that we are optimistic on behalf of District Norway, we believe that the districts will survive. We in the Christian People's Party would like to make Piet Hein's words ours in terms of districts. He says, “No, the optimistics on which life depends are the ones who dare to hope for something they believe in.”
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1300	For the sake of the further debate on these questions, I know a need to kill three myths about the Center Party. Some believe that the Center Party still has the goal of keeping up today's population in all municipalities. That's wrong. Some people think the Center Party will have a decision on where people are going to bow. Error again. Some also believe that we want to set city and land up against each other. It's a solid misunderstanding. We want to give every municipality a signal that they should not have to plan for a decline in the population, because we want to focus on the possibilities that exist in all municipalities in this country, both in terms of natural resources and in terms of human resources. We want to continue with a positive belief that it is possible to maintain jobs and develop new ones, so that less than 560 out of 1000 will have to respond to MMI's investigation that they have to move in order to get a job. We believe that the best thing for the inhabitants of both the city and the country is that we play on teams, and that we give people – far outside the big cities – the opportunity to be bowed there to prevent the pressure that we see today. In my former life as a social minister, I've had a lot of insight into the big cities' special challenges and what it means for people to be able to live where they prefer to. The centre control braked the moving current. We thus left a precedent for others. In addition, we left behind three important documents – even more, but let me mention three – that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs can now follow up. It is the report on government investment, the report on government work and the configuration of the Task Distribution Selection. When it comes to government tasks, the departments have been transparent for the first time. What it says is both directorate and other state-owned agencies. We're going into all of these with an open-minded hold, but I'm pushing over the mayor's message to help people where they live, when she says in the next moment that she wants to change the county boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1317	At the end of the debate, I feel that once again there is a need to challenge the Council of State on things I perceive she expresses herself unclear about, and that is the decentralisation of power and real coordination at local level. I've used examples today, but you don't have to. You can also talk about it on a more general basis. State councils are unclear when she is asked if she believes it is necessary to coordinate across the guidelines, laws and rules that apply today, because it is actually necessary to do something other than what you are doing today. So if you're bound by the same booths, the same law and the same guidelines, you're equidistant. The point of coordinating across the board must be that you can do something other than what you can do in a sectored state model. And I hope that will also be the reason when – and hopefully quickly – the service office model is set up, because it will be able to offer a lot more services across the country in many specialised fields. But then you also have to have an opportunity to see things across. So at the end of the day, from the Council's response to the differentiated employer's fee, it seemed as if she thought that this was something we had actually had in Norway. Unfortunately, this is not the case. The EFTA judgment states that this is regional policy, and that is where we must follow the rules of the European Union. So if we like to let go of this or not, actually doesn't matter that much. The point of stressing this issue is to find out whether the Government is working to see if it is possible to get an alternative regime up and stand, whether they are working actively in relation to the EU when they are going to design their regional policy instruments when the EU is going to expand eastwards, or whether there is any other investigation work going on in Norway to see if there are other ways of setting up regional policy instruments, which we either have full jurisdiction over the sea, or which could be within the regime to which the EEA Agreement binds us. For example, it might be interesting – I repeat – to find out an extended transport aid scheme to see if it could compensate for some of the changes that we might fear coming. That is a rather difficult question, because we have different views about the EU. It does not help us much in this matter, because here we are all bound by the agreement that exists, and this comes no matter what we like. I'm afraid it's rather the lack of good ideas about how we're going to solve this problem that makes it so quiet, and that you really have some resistance to taking it up in an open and constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1329	Let me first comment on the article from the representative Meltveit Kleppa. I believe that in terms of regional and regional policy, the best cooperation will be at the intersection of the Labour Party and the Centre Parties. That's why I'm a little bit skeptical or surprised when I feel like the Center Party might be reconstructing a contradiction that's not always there, for example. that there was a very strong criticism that there was a great focus on regions in the statement I made, while there has been less progress today. So I think absolutely there are opportunities for close cooperation, and of course also with others who want it, in this policy area. But there is no doubt at all – I would say – that what the Central Party in particular has said about district policy is not entirely in line with the results that the central government can point to after the years in the government offices. And I'm on it. If we agree on policy in many areas, there are also some areas where we do not agree, and I still feel that there is a slight misunderstanding between what was said then and the results of that policy. Nor should there be any doubt that whether we are talking about regions or what the outcome of the debate on levels of government might be, is one of the reasons why we want more local maritime governance. One of the reasons why we also discuss regions is that we want to add more power out, whether it becomes regions, municipalities or what it now has to become in the future. But at least what I'm quite clear about is that we can't continue with the number of county municipalities we have today. What the answer is, we get to come back to. But just as it is today, it won't be in the future if we're going to be in and decide what it has to be. As for the opinion of the representative Karin Andersen that I had been unclear about the question of whether we want real coordination in the counties, the answer is yes, we want coordination. We want more cooperation and coordination in very many areas, for example: in the case of legislation and legislation, and cooperation between public bodies, such as: between the employment, social security and social security offices. Here I think many parties agree that it is very important that we coordinate and target what we do, and that whoever needs help, whether it is from the employment office, the social security office or others, as a general rule should have one person and one door to deal with. And then there's public coordination between both in terms of laws and rules and in terms of how you organize, where you have the physical premises, etc. So the answer to that is yes, of course we want more coordination. It is also a very important point in the renewal of the public sector that we are in the process of doing. Then I might have expressed myself unclear if Andersen's representative understood me so that I thought we had the right to have the employer's fee. That's not what I said. I said it's a system that has a lot to say in district and regional policy. And when I say that we have time to turn around until 2003, that, of course, means that we are following that development very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1340	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3077]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1356	Oslo has a very special position as the capital of the country and, as a result, a number of tasks that no other municipality is facing. There are dramatic differences in living conditions in the city, and even though the social inequality is less today than 100 years ago, we still live in a city of great class distinctions. Oslo has most equity brokers, most investors and others with high incomes, but also most homeless, drug addicts and social clients and the highest proportion of people below the poverty line. Oslo has about 12 p.m. of Norway’s population, but the city has half of its drug users within the city’s borders. We could call Oslo, where more than 50 pst. of the households have only one resident, or lone wolves, as the president spoke of yesterday, the city of broken relationships — often with accompanying social problems and difficult growing-up conditions for children and young people. Oslo celebrates in these days its 1000th anniversary, but still bears the mark that it is divided into two. After leading the layout and construction of the square, the new city behind Akershu's fortress, Kristian IV explicitly offered people to move from the old wooded city to the new urban facility that had been built in a fireproof wall. In Yngvar Ustvedt's Oslo story, published in connection with the 1000th anniversary, we can read that people moved rather reluctantly. Someone didn't do it and stayed in the old Oslo, which from then on was called Old Town. Outside the fullness of Kristiania, new suburbs developed, inhabited by all who could not afford to accommodate the King’s demands for forced labour and households in the new city. Outside it was not the masonry, and the suburbs became villages with small wooden houses and housekeepers' rooms in old style, a sort of poor neighborhood outside the city itself, in stark contrast to the expensive square. But also in the Old Town put in the due date. It was finally considered to be a suburb in line with Greenland and the Lacquer. This laid the foundation for a city in two separate parts – each with its style of construction and its kind of culture and different living conditions – of citizens and the poor. It's getting hot in the air, and Oslo is acting like a magnet on young drug addicts from all over the country. We're talking about young people down to 13, 14 and 15 years old, who find it attractive to move into the capital, to the drug environment here. It's relatively cheap to buy fabrics here. At present, it is apparently only half the price in terms of substance in Bergen. Of course, it's problematic that Oslo is automatically responsible for everyone who comes out here, and that they're considered to be a resident in Oslo if they've been here for more than four months. Oslo does not have the capacity to treat half of the drug users in Norway, and we can no longer just see that hundreds of young people go down in Oslo streets. Ole Paus once proposed that the Declaration of Human Rights should be extended to include: It is a human right to be seen. However, drug users do not like to be seen, and therefore prefer to move into the large communities in Oslo rather than stay in their home municipality with social control and many who know them. It is urgent to initiate cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the relevant municipalities, so that there is a greater degree of co-responsibility on the part of the municipality of residence. In Zurich, it has been a success in breaking up the drug environment by sending young drug users back to treatment services in the home municipality. In some cases you have to be willing to use force to get to this. Drug abusers cost about DKK 1 billion per year. for the municipality of Oslo, and about half of this amount is estimated to go to the drug users of other municipalities. Oslo does not have the power to discharge the responsibility of providing proper services to its own drug addicts as long as the city is responsible for half of the drug addicts from all over the country. Many parents are puzzled that the authorities do not seem to do so much more than set up a syringe bus to distribute clean syringes, and to keep an auxiliary device running all day, ready to move out to save lives if there are problems with dosing. If we are to provide drug users with a more valuable offer, Oslo and other municipalities need to be compensated for some of the expenses related to drug care. It is therefore important to include the criterion ‘drug abuse’ in the income system. This will also enable smaller municipalities to provide good services to their drug users themselves, thereby avoiding concentration of drug users in the larger cities. The most important thing we have here in this city, children and young people, is often growing up without being seen, without getting sufficient attention and care. We have much larger school units than the norms. According to the Training Act, it is recommended that schools should not have more than 450 students, but in Oslo we have schools with 750 students. This includes, inter alia: that it becomes more difficult to maintain the individual without employing additional adult contacts alongside the teachers to keep in touch with the children. It evolves more easily, and some fall completely outside. But I also have to say that there are points of light. At the Old Town school, where it's about 80 pst. children of immigrants, I think the principal has adopted human rights to Ole Paus: it's a right to be seen. She stands up at the school gate every morning to greet and talk a little more each student as they get to school. They know from the first hour when the school day begins that they're seen. In a small community, this goes on its own. In Oslo, large resources are required, if you don't have people with special initiatives, as principal at the Old Town School. Oslo has a very special family structure, i.e. not only unusually many lonely, but many lonely people in the crowd. I have just read the health and social plan for the district of Sagene and Torshov for 2000-2003, and here it appears that in over 80 pst. of the households it lives only one person. The urban area is strongly influenced by social clients, drug users, people with mental and criminal problems. There is an increasing number of forced insertions, and many people are admitted several times during the same year. The city also has a very high number of injecting drug users, 0.7 pst. by the population. If it had been the same percentage on a national basis, we would have 31,500 people using morphine-like and nervous drugs. Crime is growing more strongly in Oslo than in other parts of the country. Since 1960 there has been an explosive growth in the number of offences reported. The crime of violence recorded by crime scene shows that part of the urban areas in the centre of Oslo are very high on the national average. And over 60 pst. drug use can be linked to the crime of violence. Twenty-six pst. by all men between 16 and 24 years of age in Oslo, they have been exposed to violence or the threat of violence. It can also be seen from the statistics on violent crime that medically treated violence in young Norwegian men in Oslo, the inner East, is more than ten times as frequent as the average in the whole population in Norway. This suggests that a criterion must be introduced into the income system for additional prevention needs, in particular for children and young people. Crime involves not only the cost of the police and justice budget but also high health costs and greater need for prevention measures. It also causes substantial material damage that entails costs. Among other things, Oslo Sporveier spent several tens of millions of dollars last year cleaning up after tagging. Oslo has very special challenges in providing enough housing. This is primarily a responsibility for the municipality itself, but it is important that the state also engages, not least because Oslo has a relatively high proportion of students, about 70 000. This, of course, leads to strong pressure on the rental market, which in turn makes it difficult for the municipality to obtain sufficient housing for social purposes. The result is that the municipality must invest in super-animal solutions, such as hotel rooms and hostels for homeless people. Oslo is also a national traffic hub with its central importance for business and public administration. Oslo port serves large parts of the country in terms of both exports and imports. This results in a significant environmental impact related to road transport. Private car transport related to work trips also causes significant environmental pressures in the inner city. As a result, the population of Oslo lives in air with more particulate matter and pollution than the rest of the country. This results in higher incidences of, for example, asthma and other respiratory diseases, especially in children and adolescents. Thus, the primary health service is subject to a greater burden in addition to the human costs involved. In order to counteract this, the Municipality of Oslo, in cooperation with the State, wants to strengthen the provision of collective services throughout the Oslo region and reduce traffic in the centre. This can only be done if the municipality has financial room for action to invest in different transport measures, such as: Oslopackak 2, T-banning and the important state roads such as the Bjørvika tunnel and the Mossevejen. The income system must contain metropolitan criteria. Oslo Municipality has lost approx. EUR 1 billion in tax revenue from 1998 to 1999. The operating account deficit for 1999 was 756 million. kr. The municipality of Oslo would of course prefer to be self-driving, but when the state in so many areas reduces the financial freedom, the municipality must have this compensated, among other things. by the metropolitan criteria I have mentioned. It is unsustainable that the state does not settle for itself, among other things. by not providing the promised compensation for the loss of corporate tax. And the municipality has also not been settled for Reform 97, as foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1397	The representative Rise points out in his interview that Oslo, the capital of the country, has a number of tasks to do in addition to the tasks of municipalities and county councils. I agree. In St. prp. No 60 for 1997-98, About the municipal economy 1999 etc., Oslo's special problems are described as follows: ‘Oslo’s complex functions both as a capital, regional centre and community impose major planning and coordination requirements. This applies both to the land use, to the design of other development patterns and to the transport systems. The metropolitan function and population concentration also present Oslo as a municipality and county municipality with specific challenges in the health and social sector.’» I agree, as I said, with the representative Rise that Oslo has special needs related to its capital function. At the same time, there is also reason to point out that Oslo has a higher level of income than most other municipalities due to a high level of municipal tax revenue. I also agree with the representative Rise's assessment that Oslo is the municipality in the country that holds both some of the richest and some of the poorest. It is well that the winner city in Oslo accommodates some of the richest, and the Sags and Torshov accommodate some of the poorest in the country, and that makes some extra demands for policy-making. It also brings me to a topic that has to do with local self-government. I find it important to point out that I think it is important that the municipalities – and this also applies to Oslo – have the opportunity to take advantage of the income potential that they have, among other things. to levy taxes on property. If Oslo was a municipality, for example, had added property taxes to some of the richest in this city, the Municipality of Oslo could also have helped to help something more that is worst in this city, for example. by building dwellings. Because it's true, as the representative Riser says, that in Oslo, some of those who are the worst people who don't have a place to live. We know that on land there are between 6,000 and 7,000 people who are homeless. Many of them belong to Oslo, and it's clear that it presents special challenges. In this capacity, of course, the state also wants to contribute, and a larger meeting will be held in the near future, where Oslo Municipality will also be invited, among other things. to look at how together we can help to build more dwellings, especially for those with the most difficulty in the housing market. As noted in the interpellation of the representative Rise, Oslo has special challenges in terms of growing-up conditions for children and young people, social problems, drug abuse, psychiatry and crime. As a well-known system of incomes has been reformed since 1997, with relatively substantial changes in that conversion. The cost keys of the income system were among others: has been modified to ensure that the municipal service provision which has been turned over time towards an increase in the level of social measures. The committee's proposal for greater emphasis on social conditions and age criteria, as well as a reduction in the emphasis on the so-called basic supplement, meant, in isolation, increased transfers to cities and larger regional centres. Before my time, the Ministry has considered launching research projects to look at the relationship between different social conditions and cost variations related to drug protection and psychiatry. However, as mentioned in the Community economicproposition for the current year, the Ministry has had to scrape the drug-related project. This is because there is too little reliable data available. However, I believe that the implementation of the so-called KOSTRA project will mean that it will soon be possible to carry out this type of analysis, which I believe is also absolutely necessary, and which will also have consequences in relation to Oslo. Of course, it assumes that both Oslo and other county municipalities are adequately implemented. The municipal economic proposition for next year, which will take place in a few weeks' time, presents the status of research projects developed by Sintef and Fafo on the cost variations between county municipalities related to psychiatry. In the interpellation, the representative asks Rise what the Council of State will do to better address Oslo's specific needs. I would like to point out here that the Stortinget has asked for a specific review of the income system in the municipal economic proposition, which will be presented on 19 May, and then the representative Rise will get a clearer answer to what the Government intends to do. As the representative points out in his interpellation, Oslo has had a significant reduction in its tax revenue in 1999. This is due partly to the liquidation of corporate tax as municipal tax. However, the reduction in Oslo's tax revenue is partly also due to special conditions relating to the income year 1998. The loss of income due to the liquidation of the municipal corporation tax received compensation from the municipal sector in the 1999 government budget for a corresponding increase in tax from personal taxpayers. However, since corporation tax was significantly more distorted than the tax of personal taxpayers, the liquidation of corporation tax had significant distributive effects. Therefore, the State budget for 1999 assumed that Oslo would receive compensation for about half of the municipality's estimated loss as a result of the liquidation of corporate tax as municipal tax. In order for Oslo to receive this compensation, it was known that it created its own capital grant. This capital grant was based on calculations made in St.prp. No 60 for 1997-98, About the local economy 1999 etc. The government will return to the municipal economic proposition for next year with up-to-date estimates of the distribution effects of the loss of municipal corporation tax. So the representative asked Rise about what the government intends to do, among other things. in relation to transport challenges. There is no doubt that the Oslo area is a very important hub for traffic from all over the country, and it is therefore also of national importance that the bottlenecks on the main road network be resolved. In recent years it has been a major road development in Oslo and Akershus. I refer in this connection to the so-called Oslopacket 1, which is the basis for the ongoing development of the main road network in the Oslo area. This initiative has provided better benefits to the region in terms of accessibility and the environment, but major development tasks will still remain at the end of the 2002-2011 programming period. The development of public transport in Oslo and Akershus has also been a priority in the 1990s. It has happened both through Oslopackakt 1, where 20 pst. investment was allocated to public transport and, in addition, to the direct priority given by the State to the development of the railway. However, it is important to ensure the positive gains achieved through Oslopacket 1. A further investment in the development of public transport in Oslo and Akershus – Oslopackak 2 – will reinforce the effects of what has happened through Oslopackak 1. Forced collective development shall contribute to a more functional and reliable alternative to car use so as to avoid, as far as possible, increased problems related to traffic management, accidents and the environment. Oslopack 2 is a plan to finance and support priority actions to achieve the objectives already adopted to strengthen public transport in the region. It shall be financed both through State resources, through amended toll tariffs and through local contributions, to mention something. The government aims to present its own proposition on Oslopackakt 2. In summary, I would like to say that there is no doubt that Oslo has some specific challenges in several areas. The representative Risk mentioned drug users in particular. I think we'll eventually be able to get a review of those criteria. However, I do not think it is a solution to send drug users back to where they are from. It's not that we can force people to live neither here nor there. People must be allowed to live wherever they want. But it's important that we have income systems that address the special challenges this city has, and also others that have special challenges, because there are especially many who need extra help from the big community. But I don't think it's a very good solution to force people back where they came from.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1426	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. There were many positive elements in what the Council of State said. Only when it comes to housing: it's one of the really big problems in Oslo, and I think it's positive that she now wants to have a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo to see what we can do in collaboration to speed up housing. But I want to ask the State Council if she sees a connection between having a lot of state schools and universities and a big housing problem in Oslo, especially in the case of rental homes. We know that it is very expensive to get rental homes for homeless people for the municipality of Oslo. It's the multiple of what it costs in other municipalities. Could the Council of State imagine, when the state builds schools and establishes several places of study, that there is a certain percentage of housing related, e.g. 40 pst. of the study places, so that one has a pressure, including from the state, to build more dwellings? So the government council said Oslo should use the possibilities of the municipality to obtain income from property taxes. It is clear that there is a decision that belongs to the municipality that there may be different opinions about. But it's a fact that none of the surrounding municipalities have property taxes, and it makes it difficult for Oslo Municipality to introduce it, because there are competitive aspects that suggest that there are problems then. In Westfold, as far as I know, there is only one municipality that has property taxes, so there are significant problems with imposing property taxes. It may be easy for the council just to refer to it, but it is not so easy for the Oslo Municipality to suddenly introduce property taxes, without therefore saying what I would have done if I were in the City Council of Oslo. So the state council said that you will now come back to the Stortinget with an answer as to whether you can add special metropolitan criteria, and that this comes in the municipal economic proposition on 19 May. Then we are hoped that the Council of State will take into account the impulses of this debate in the Community economic proposition and that we will have some positive decisions. I also think it is positive that – it is well – the Minister for Transport will present his own proposition on Oslopackak 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1439	First, when it comes to housing, I think it might be one of the biggest challenges we're facing, especially when we're talking about the city we're now in. Here I would like to invite you to a wide variety of activities where I hope that all the actors can contribute, including municipalities, individuals, housing companies and those who might have an interest in building more reasonable and cheap rental homes as soon as possible. There's actually a lot of ways we can make housing cheaper, so we can build more. The municipality of Oslo will of course be invited to do so. It is true that we have done so in some municipalities, where there are very good models, and where the municipality has cooperated with the housing laws to build reasonable and nudged homes for young and disadvantaged people. It is clear that this also has a transfer value to this city, if you want. But then it's important – and so is the government – that every municipality, including Oslo, goes through the property and land mass that you have, to see if there are parts of it that can be converted quite quickly into more reasonable and sober homes, perhaps especially for young people, and especially for those who have the most difficulty. Some of them we know may need more than just a dwelling, because not everyone has a living capacity, but then one has to make arrangements that are adapted to it. I don't think that schemes with such a large amount of e.g. hospice is a good solution for parts of that group. We should rather try to get other solutions, and there the government will follow up. We will have a dialogue with many actors and anyone who wants to participate in that effort. Of course, when it comes to the issue of property taxes, I am fully aware that it is about the local maritime administration. I would still like to tell the representative Rise when the representative says that it is not easy for the municipality of Oslo to introduce property taxes, that at least I am of a different opinion. I am of the opinion that if the political majority in this city had wanted to do so, they could have done so finely, even on the basis of the representative's report that we in this city find some of the richest and some of the poorest. In fact, I believe that it should certainly have been in place to assess whether one should not have allowed those who have the best, to pay something to help those who have the worst. I recognise that this is a matter of municipal maritime administration, but I still feel the need to point out to this municipality, as I do to other municipalities, that it is a potential to increase its own income. So, of course, it'll be up to each municipality if it wants to do so, but I have to say, like my own party in this city, I disagree with the policy of this area in this city. Otherwise, I will take with me the signals that have come from the representative Rise in other areas. And, as I said, we're coming back with some answers in the community economics proposition in about a week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1450	I thank the representative for addressing the special challenges facing the capital. It's a fact that big cities don't have enough resources to solve the big problems they're facing. But I am less satisfied with what I heard on the radio that drug addicts should be forced back to their local authorities. Forced action is no way to go. What we need is primarily a criterion system adapted to Oslo's particular problems, and Oslo needs, like all other municipalities, a predictable financial framework. The biggest political problem for the capital is — and the interpellant should take it inward — that the city is governed by a bourgeois majority, supported by the party colleagues of Rise. It could have been different. And the Oslo Workers' Party is well pleased with the budgetary cooperation we had last autumn. The representative Rise has been well-counted in the media because he wants to give more money to Oslo, and there are several of us who want it. But my question is whether the representative Rise has more money than the rest of us who are bound by the budget agreement. Is his party coming with a few hundred million extra dollars in connection with the revision, or is it just wishful thinking? I have to remind you that in order to correct and prevent differences in Oslo between east and west, we can do a lot locally. But I do not think it is possible with the political regime that the Oslo Christian People's Party has supported. In the capital, we have, as I said, the best and the worst living conditions, but the City Council says this is not a task for the City Council. In addition, property taxes will not be used when Oslo has a tax loss of 750 million. out of the adopted budget. I think it should be a minimum requirement to exploit possible sources of income locally when the situation requires it. Otherwise, I fully agree with the representative in his description of Oslo's challenges, and I also think that the Council of State was in line with describing the problems. The big cities are in many ways a magnet for people with social problems, drug addicts and criminals. That is why I mean, for example: the need for more attention to be paid to child-growth conditions in major cities and the provision of more money. They don't need cash support, but they need safe and good activity offers, and I hope Rise will help. Oslo is more multicultural than most other cities, we have hundreds of different languages in the city, many refugees want to live right here, and we're a national traffic hub. We need short and good financial packages in cooperation between state and municipality, and the City Council of Oslo must also be on the track. We have problems, they're solvable, but the Oslo municipality is the key. I hope that the representative Rise will make contact, and that he will keep the same post for his representatives in the Oslo City Council that he has held here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1467	The interpellation taken up by the representative Lars Rise here today is, in my view, very important and timely. The big cities, including Oslo, have special problems and special challenges that we have to take seriously. In the Progress Party, we've realised that, and we're working on setting up our own big-town selection to look at just the problem that, among other things, we're looking at. Oslo's got a fight. That's what this is about, and the representative Lars Rise has been asking for, is far more money to solve the peculiar problems we're seeing in Oslo, and we're all concerned about and not denying in any way. However, after the Government and the central parties in 1999, the municipalities were deprived of corporation tax, not only is the interest in organising business start-ups in the municipalities weakened, but several municipalities have lost large incomes, including Oslo, which was in a special position with high incomes from corporate tax. We see that several of the municipalities, especially Oslo, that have lost income from corporation tax, have not been compensated for this loss of income. In other words, the Municipality of Oslo has come out very badly after the loss of this company tax. This warned the Progress Party strongly against the time when the Workers' Party and the Centre parties took away this important tax source from the municipalities. What happened was you took away twice as much from Oslo as you returned. After we have received information from several other cities in this country about how badly things have gone wrong, we in the Progress Party have come to the conclusion that it is right to promote a proposal to return the company tax to the municipalities. As mentioned above, the Progress Party has proposed that company taxes be returned to the municipalities and to Oslo. It will thus be able to significantly strengthen the finances of the Municipality of Oslo. Today, municipalities get most of their money from the state, in carefully measured portions, according to a rather complicated income system. The criteria for allocation are many, and Lars Rise has set out the premises for even more criteria. We have created an income system in the municipalities where it is actually easier for municipalities and cities to shout for more money from the state than to work for increased income. I would say that the introduction of property taxes is no way to go. It is a much better solution to reintroduce corporation tax. It will compensate more than enough for Oslo's.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1478	It is good that the big city of Oslo's problems are taken up. Earlier today, we have debated how the city and the country relate, and that is a connection. However, I am somewhat uncertain as to whether the problems addressed are major urban problems or major urban problems. I feel that the social conditions described with drug abuse, drugs and homeless people are the problems of a big city and not necessarily a capital problem. I guess the main problem is that it's housing, among other things. this house, departments and central administration gives a great deal of pressure. In 1998, the situation was that of 13,457 employees in departments and the central administration only 900 were located outside Oslo. Being the capital gives you an increased pressure. Earlier today, we have discussed localization and possibilities for state location out of the capital, and this will help to reduce the pressure on the capital. It's pointed to the corporate tax. In previous debates, I have pointed out that Rattsø proposed a system that would be simpler and fairer. So this was more fair, and the majority followed this up. There are many who complain about the loss compensation and that it has to be liquidated. But the capital grant was actually established as a kind of loss compensation, which the majority will liquidate. But what I hope is the result of this is that you get a good deal between Oslo and the neighbouring municipalities, so that you don't just send home those who want to hide in the big city, with the problems they have. Adequate treatment provision also needs to be built around the metropolitan city of Oslo. It is affordable that Rise addresses this problem. We should have measures for these, both in terms of treatment provision and in terms of accommodation provision. I have the expectation that the municipal economic proposition will also add up to a discussion of the critical system itself. There are many criteria that should be included. I have previously called for climatic criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1489	A sensible policy for the whole country requires an interaction between the city and the country. The majority has had many debates on the development of district policy, few debates on an active urban policy. There's no balance here. The hearing also had a debate on urban policy, as well as district policy. It is a misunderstanding when the Council of State, as she has been guilty of, in today's newspapers, the Nations, among other things, refers to the fact that the play-out at the Right National Assembly was about the major cities to be compensated for by 'State investment'. Then the Council of State has not read the opinion. It is not about state investment but about retaining more of own tax resources. The studies carried out – which are used in Poland to say that it is a flow of money to cities, not just to Oslo – therefore do not cover reality. Half of what is attributed to the urban regions concerns the Rikshospitalet and the Gardermoen, and with respect to reporting, it does not help on social problems in Tromsø if you build a national hospital in Oslo, much less Gardermoen helps on Bergen's press problems. This is to mix completely, with a view to pure derailment. But honey to the interpellant who brings up the themes, with Oslo concretely. I hope he gets his party with him gradually. It'll help. Back to the State Investment Survey. I just want to ask the Council of State to draw out other aspects of the Aplan Viak report that she has in front of her, for example. table No 1 on page IV, which shows that the country's investments and transfers in relation to the population of Oslo show that the city is on an average. So there are so-called capital projects out there. And with respect to reporting, it's not the capital projects that solve Oslo's special social problems. There are some problems associated with cities. Some are linked to larger cities. But it's an illusion to think that these social problems disappear if you travel to Rome or Inner Eastfold. Transparency of a community can be discussed. But that's probably also the side of it that to look through problems you also have to be willing to see them and not look through your fingers with them. So it's not so black and white that drug problems don't exist outside a big city, but only in a big city. But it's an overrepresentation in cities, and especially in larger cities. That's where the problem lies. Let's nuance this. I expect the Council of State to speed up its efforts to do something about the troubles. Finally, the following little heart attack: It is not true — that is not true — when the Council of State gives the impression that Oslo can use property taxes only for a few chosen rich people or large properties. Property taxes introduced in Oslo will affect everyone and especially those who have recently bought at a high rate, and then it makes the big city costs on the property even higher, so it hurts worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1510	There's no doubt that Oslo has special challenges. Nor is there any doubt that Oslo has special possibilities in many ways. I refer to the debate we have had earlier today, where we have focused on reports that tell us something about it, for example. out of 13,400 ministerial jobs are 900 outside Oslo. It's true that 65 out of 70 directorates are located in Oslo, and we know that the head offices of a number of companies, both public and private, are located here. The last time the Stortingen debated its situation, the big cities were probably dealing with the big city news. Then there was a broad commitment to the Storting for a special bet in those parts of Oslo that have the biggest challenges, an Oslo internal east exposure, where funds are still being invested. Then there was also a discussion about Oslo's situation in relation to the income system. There, in 1997, the Center Party proposed a private big city initiative that would be outside other criteria, which would not only go to Oslo, but would also go to other big cities. Multiple numbers were not received. The anti-aliasing messages that are being processed during these days show where the best and where the most difficult lifestyle is. There are also proposals for measures, which are hopefully adopted, which concern both Oslo and other major cities. I'm surprised that Oslo doesn't have the potential for taxing property. It's their choice. We shouldn't for that reason be taking seriously the special situation that both Oslo and other big cities are in, even the positive ringing effect it would have if we could stimulate that some more of those who want to stay outside the big press areas get access to it. It has been proposed today as regards the repatriation of drug addicts. It sounds to be well meant. It is totally unacceptable and also complete, in my view, impracticable. I'm glad it's such that it's allowed to move in this country anywhere for anyone who wants to. We have to hold on to that. But then we need to intensify efforts when it comes to prevention, when it involves treatment, when it involves control over drug abuse and other problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1521	There are two big things in ours that are going to have a lot to say for Oslo and the cities' economy, and for how we should best be able to solve the problems that the interpellant is dealing with. It is the dissipation message, which goes directly to disadvantaged groups, and it is not least the municipal economic proposition, which is coming in a short time. "It is a human right to be seen," said Lars Rise in his speech, and I agree with that. But some people might be seen too much. In some areas it is called the ‘construction animal’. And some people travel. But then it might indicate that the problem is there and not here. I think we should also have that with us. SV has wanted to focus more on children and young people across all policies. We've wanted a greater bet on kindergartens, on child protection, and not least at school, just so that each one should be seen, noticed, got membership, got a marine image and mastered his own life. That's why a bigger stake in school becomes a very important element in what the representative Rise is busy solving. There are no problems with law enforcement when it comes to sending home 13-14-year-olds on free flights in Oslo streets. For that, there is no need for any new laws. It's passed the law, the use of coercion, in relation to the drug addicts in this room. The Labour Party and the representative of Rise's party have also participated in this. But I don't think that's the important thing, the important thing is that you get quick and good treatment, and that there's money to get it started. That is where we fully agree. I also agree that the criterion that drug abuse is included in the income system is one thing we will have to consider in depth. I would like to remind you that when the company tax was removed, SV proposed a permanent capital grant that would reflect the increased tasks and special needs of a capital region. We think it's necessary to look at it, and we want to get back to it. So to something that the representative Rise is concerned about, and that I and SV are burning for, namely housing policy. Here something has to be done quickly, it is not useful to wait, and this is going to cost some money. In particular, when you are busy with children and drug users, it is a misunderstanding that we need to end immediately, and it is sending children, young people and families with children to the hospital. It must be banned. It is public child abuse, and it must result in punishment for the authorities that do so. There are hotels in this city, where families with children or young people can be located if housing is needed. In addition, it needs a strong commitment to housing policy, so that people have a home, because, as we know, it is the starting point for having a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1534	It is very positive that there is a debate on Oslo without giving any particular reason. It is also very positive that a debate on Oslo can mainly be held without acting on the Spokesman's Chair as if you were standing on the City Council of Oslo. It has often happened in Oslo City Council that you have behaved like you've been standing on the pulpit of the Stortinge. Even if I am convinced that problems need to be solved in common, sometimes the political conflict need to rest and find the agreed solutions. It has been invited by the Council of State in its own way, and also by the representative Rise in his own way. I'll comment on some, in my opinion, important points about it. In the case of housing, the Left has made its contribution to the labour, both with a Document No. Eight proposals and a private proposal in Oslo City Council, and it is my claim that even in Oslo City Centre it is fully possible to build cheap homes for young people in the start-up phase and for newly divorced people. It does not require any subsidisation, but it requires that one leave to auction out plots. For auctioning away an empty, the price is squeezed out in such a way that it has to be expanded for a completely different purpose. But it is fully possible – even in Oslo Centre, this is possible. I think it's positive what the Council of State says about this. In the case of intoxication, the representative Rise has focused on a crucial point. There is no doubt that the municipality of Oslo has 50 pst. of the country’s drug addicts with 12pst. by the population. It must be bad thought to think that they can be coerced away – I will just pass it that way. But pointing out that there's a need for funds, either assessed through the Criteria System or in a permanent capital supplement, it's obviously right to meet these people. So I'm going to raise a point that, in my opinion, becomes very crucial, and I'm going to address the Council of State in particular because through her activities as a growth representative she's been engaged in integration issues. The integration is usually linked to the professional committee I sit on, and to school, but the economic basis is crucial. I think there's been an unusually low focus on having a huge spread in Oslo school, perhaps bigger than anywhere else in the country, and in primary school you have up to 30 pst. foreign language. This has two relationships. One bit of that is the money that Oslo gets to provide Norwegian training, mother tongue training, etc. That amount has not kept up with what was supposed to be refunded 90 pst. of the cost. But more important than that, which I ask the Council of State to assess, is to see if the school is well enough equipped to succeed in integration. In Oslo you will find the most glittering examples of success, but in this big city you will also find the most sad examples of failures spreading as ring-effects in our country. We don't deserve it to go on. We're earned that it's also at this point that it becomes a concentration to lift, so you get the effort you need. So finally, if the Council of State wants to avoid a blackout on the roads in Bjørvika, it's just to release the Harbour Society. There are land, which is not priced, and managed after the last remainder of the feudal district and planned economy in Norwegian property management. So it's just to get rid of it like that, because then you don't put $3 billion in a hole in Bjørvika. With effort and splinter, you can do it, it's a well-known district policy principle, and in the city you can do it if you're allowed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1547	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that this morning's sitting continue until case No. 2 on today's map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1550	The question raised by the representative Rise in his interview is absolutely essential. It is essential because it has often been difficult to understand that Oslo has social and economic problems of very different dimensions than what is usual in the country. It is in Oslo that one experiences the greatest differences in living conditions, the greatest differences between poor and rich, the greatest differences in the state of health of people, the greatest differences in life, the greatest differences in education and housing standards, etc. The main means we have to balance these differences is a good public service offer for everyone. In Oslo, however, we have special expenditures related to major social problems, substandard dwellings, schools with over thirty different mother tongues, etc. This situation, of course, leads to an average increase in the cost of welfare services than in the rest of the country. However, this has not been adequately taken into account in the current income system. I'm afraid that if we don't get a better financial starting point and continue to starve the municipal welfare services, many people with a good private economy will demand private schemes and thus undermine the objective of giving everyone equal opportunities. I am pleased with the understanding I feel that the municipal minister has announced, and believe that the relevant measures and proposals will be promoted. But when that's said, I also want to present a challenge to the representative Rise to get their own city board representatives and their civil partners to take advantage of the income base Oslo actually has. The representative Rise's claim to the state is doubled when his own party in the city council, together with the Right and the Advance Party, is about to liquidate the property tax in Oslo and thus reduce Oslo's income base by approx. 500 million. kr. The same requirements for the State should also apply to its own municipality and to its own representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1563	A small invitation to the representative Lars Rise, who has taken up this interpellation, and which I think it is right to do: there is now a proposal to bring company tax back to the municipalities again, and if Rise is able to get his own party and the centermates, there are again several figures for it, and then one will also secure Oslo's big income. We had a debate earlier today where we were at least a part that was some that we should keep our country strong and powerful all over the world, we need strong regional centres. I also want to say that if we are to keep Norway as a good country to live in, we also need a strong capital. It should involve us all. I want to say, in a statement, that of the twelve who have spoken in this debate, there is only one person who speaks pure Oslo dialect, and it in itself shows that this involves us, that one needs a strong capital. But Oslo can also do something for himself. I would say that Oslo's political leadership can be criticised over time – it applies not only to the Right Town Council, but also to the Labour Party City Council – for many, many years to have neglected the need to facilitate housing construction, at least. to refuse the construction of a high-rise building and to refuse to extend the Marka boundary. This has resulted in sky-high housing prices, which particularly affect young people at the start-up stage, and, of course, those with small incomes. The situation of those in the establishment phase is further exacerbated by the effect of document fees on the top of the unsocial housing prices in the capital. Young people in the establishment phase are forced to change their housing as the family increases, perhaps several times, in order to obtain adequate housing space. Every time, the government took money into this because the document fee is there. This is also very unsocial. That's why I want to ask a question to the Council of State: see the Council of State the unsocial in this, and can expect the Labour Party to do something about the document fee, e.g. Remove it? We can guarantee that in that case there will be multiples in this room for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1574	There's not so much more to say at the end of a debate, but what I'm recording is that there are at least good arguments to tell why we can't do things. For example, Per-Kristian Foss’ argument that those who buy an expensive dwelling today are not able to get a small increase in income tax, seems a little strange to me. And Lodve Solholm is talking about that we can bring back the corporate tax, and then everything will be fine in this city. What had been a bit exciting to hear from the Oslo representatives was that they were thinking new. There are 22 urban areas in Oslo that allocate a budget that the City Council is dealing with, and it is not necessary to have the same criteria for distribution in each single part of Oslo. I assume that the drug addiction is not as big on Frogner as it is in Old Oslo. It might also be a little interesting for the Oslo City Council to look at its own criteria for the distribution of a quite significant pot, which is the largest budget in the Municipality of Norway, so that it is not just the Storting and income system central that should be the fascination of the problems that apply to this city. It would have been a little tense, instead of explaining the Storting why we can't find any extra money. It's clear that what's being addressed is important. Clearly, in terms of the urban system, criteria such as closeness, psychiatry, refugees, immigration, social clients, housing standards should be considered. But there aren't as many people who need help in all 22 parts of the city. In fact, at the end of the debate, I would like to challenge the Oslo politicians to join in and make a contribution. After what we have now heard from the Council of State, we will probably get a continuation of the capital grant tomorrow, and there will be a central review of the income system, which comes in the criteria, so that if some tense Oslo politicians also do something locally, these will benefit the users who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1585	First, I have to comment on the representative, Husøy, who started by giving credit for the boarding of the interpellation, but who then went over to criticise the Oslo Christian People's Party because the party has chosen to support a city council based on the Right and not on the Workers' Party. She said that if we had supported a labour party agency, we could have jointly imposed property taxes. Then you might forget that dwellings are super-animal in Oslo, and especially new apartments often get a high equation value. I don't think you necessarily solve social problems in Oslo by imposing property taxes. So ask the representative, Husøy, does the representative have rice money that we don't have? Then I would like to say that introducing metropolitan criteria does not require an increased framework, but it could rather mean a redistribution within the framework. And since there was so much criticism of the Oslo Christian People's Party, I want to mention that it has been possible to raise the stakes in school more than the Workers' Party has ever proposed in Oslo City Council. There has been a reduction in the number of cows in hospitals, and there has also been a strengthening of care for the elderly. However, assistance from the state is needed to solve these problems. I would also like to mention that I do not think a labour party bureau could have been able to counteract changes in the business cycle, falls in the stock market or an IT-crack, as we have seen now. Then, too, a socialist city council would have had problems with the tax revenues received from personal taxpayers, who can now subtract from what has been lost on the stock market, and that is not small. It's about several hundred million dollars for the Municipality of Oslo. So until what the Council of State said about drug abuse and the use of coercion. It was also the representative Dørum inside, and he thought it had to be a very bad thought from my side. Then I think it's important to say that I hadn't formulated what was intro in the Newscasts today, but what I've said is that we can't stand and see that many young people are going to die in Oslo's streets. In that case, we should be able — in some cases — to use the legal basis provided by the Social Services Act to ensure that these young people come under treatment. We don't have to change any laws for that. But we know that it is a very successful project that has been tested in Zurich, and I think we could try something of the same here – first of all get treatment for the young, and get a cooperation between the state and the municipality. Will the Council of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1598	I think this debate has been important, and I agree with those who have said – among others. Foss – that it is important to have an active urban policy and also to have a debate about it. I think we've had it too little in this room. The representative Foss was involved in the Aplan Viaks report on the geographical distribution of national investment. It's a fact that in the period referred to, 69 pst went. of the state investment to the metropolitan areas and the Oslo region received the most. And then I expect that the representative Foss can at least not fail that there is an element of centralization in it. Of course, I am fully aware that if you keep the typical national projects, as also the representative Foss pointed out, in the East outside – OL at Lillehammer, the Rikshospitale, the Grand Airfield, the Gardermoban, etc. – then the numbers become more balanced. Of course, I am also aware that the challenges that Oslo has have need to be solved in a number of other areas, and I do not intend to abuse this report, to put it that way, in the sense that one should not also contribute to solving the particular challenges that the capital has, but that there is some centralisation in it, I don't think anyone can fail. Then there was a call for speeding up work on the criteria for drug problems. There I showed that so far the problem has been – I don't think there has been any unwillingness from the previous government in this area either – to get enough data, because it is difficult to obtain. But I hope that through the new system, called COSTRA, we can get it, and I promise to do what I can to push on so that we get a review of just the criteria for drug problems as quickly as practically possible. So to the issue of property taxes, which more people have been involved in. The representative Foss was also that, and he said we can't just take from the rich. To that I would say that there are certainly opportunities for – through the system that is – that it is at least possible to measure who pays the most in property taxes. And in fact, when Oslo Municipality and the management in Oslo Municipality choose not to use that income option, that means about. 500 million. kr, which the Municipality of Oslo could have used for one good purpose or another. And I'd say that's a couple of dollars. It's not that it itself solves the challenges Oslo has, but at least I think it could have been a good contribution to trying together to solve the many problems that this capital and this city have, for example. in the situation of dwellings. I am very pleased with the commitment that, among other things, The representative Dørum has shown in the housing policy, and I fully agree with the representative that it is fully possible to build many more reasonable, sober homes in Oslo if you want, and it can really do in a very short time. I also take with me the challenge of the representative of Dørum on school integration. The government will carry out a greater review of the entire integration policy, and then it will be quite natural that we also look at what the representative addressed in relation to the school situation. We'll get back to that pretty soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1613	President, there's an obvious misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1620	The president assumes that it's hardly a question of it, but takes the chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1624	The Council of State has now twice referred to the Asplan Viak report as the 69 pst. until the major urban areas are concerned with the entire period for which the report has been published. It doesn't, 69 pst. is about 1998. If you look at the whole period over one, there's a completely different number coming out. I think the Council of State should be correct in the quotations, because there will be completely different numbers if you, for example. a few years will pass when these major projects are completed. But it's only for 1998, it's not for the whole period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1629	It has not been my intention to suggest that the 69 pst. This was the case in 1998, in which case it is a misunderstanding. I don't think I said that. At least I didn't mean it, and that's the fact. That we have slightly different opinions about the impact it has on centralisation, I feel like a slightly different debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11.ana.ud2429e1634	The President assumes that the misunderstanding is now resolved. Thus, the interpellation debate is under case No. 2 ended. The meeting will be held at 9 a.m. 6:00 p.m.
