ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e27	From the representative Odd Eriksen, an application for welfare leave is made from 19 January to 28 January. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Björn Olsen, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e57	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: – State Council Selected City of Reply Haugland – State Council Jon Lilletun, – Minister of State Marit Arnstad, The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e72	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. There have been speculations about the future of Statoil and whether Statoil should be partially privatised. This discussion has taken place particularly after Statoil's government itself has sought partial privatization, and not least because during the spring the Stortinget will be presented with a case that is in the future of its oil and energy activities. What would be interesting to know from the Minister of Oil and Energy is about what is stated in the Declaration of Adults, where one has exemplary clear wording on how to understand this issue. The Declaration of Adults reads as follows: ‘Statoil must still have a central position in Norwegian petroleum activities and be a full-time State company.’– I repeat, ‘a full-time State company’. As you can see from what the government's own representatives now have aired, it is clear that this will no longer apply. So my question is very specific: does this mean that the typical clear formulations of the Adult Declaration at this point are fixed, or is there an opening for adjustment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e90	As the representative of Djupedal is familiar with, and as he quotes from the Adult Declaration, the Government's position is that Statoil should be a full-time state company. It is a position communicated by the Government to the Storing in several documents earlier, and it is the Government’s position until the Government takes a different position, if any. The government has not done so far. But it is true that there has been a debate on the future ownership of Statoil and also on the future organisation of State involvement in the petroleum sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e95	This was not very much to be wise of. It is true that one can change the position, but on this issue, which is one of the most important questions about the Norwegian – to say – the future of the economy and, not least, ownership of an important sector of the Norwegian economy, I do not believe that it is clearly possible to change such a position. If you want – if possible open – to change the ownership structure of Statoil without having told the voters, it has a constitutional and at least a moral side. Now I understand to the councillor that she will not say here today that she will change it, but I understand that she is open for that to happen. And then my question is to the Minister of Oil and Energy: does she feel a commitment to the voters who voted on the Central Party and the Government parties, assuming that Statoil is still a state company, or does she believe that the Government has been given the authority to change its position on such a large part of our wealth, such an important question of structural policy and economic policy, without further delay?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e102	I have referred to the Government's position per. Today, and has also shown that there is a debate on the ownership of Statoil, and that debate must continue for a while. In any case, the Government – probably at the end of February – will present its communication on these issues. I can see arguments both for and against a partial privatisation of and a change of ownership in Statoil. However, the relationship between a programme and a programme commitment by the representative of Djupedal is a politically important issue. I agree that the programme of political parties is a commitment to the electorate. The question is whether it also cuts political parties from discussing concrete programme entries over a four-year period, not least in the context of today’s rapidly changing society. I believe that the policy should play a significant role by being the one who prefaces the changes. The question then is: will abate the policy from the possibility if one has such a static view of programme obligations as that of Mr. Djupedal now adds up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e109	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e112	Since it seems to be difficult to get a very concrete answer to this, I want to go on the more principle of privatisation: the central party’s view of privatisation in general in relation to democratic control. Now I don't think that this government is pursuing any active state ownership policy in relation to Statoil and in relation to the control that I think they have, except in the case of Åsgard. But there are great opportunities for a completely different management of the company than one has practiced. So the question is: will privatisation, according to the opinion of the Council of State, lead to better democratic control of Statoil? And: Will a privatisation of Statoil take account of the Waxenå Declaration when it concerns the issue of increasing public opinion in relation to the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e121	As I said in my reply to Djupedal, I think there are arguments both for and against a partial privatisation of Statoil. It's just this balancing of the different arguments that the Center Party is now facing, which the Government also has to make. Before that happens, I will not go into any real debate on the question that Langeland raises. But once again, I want to get back to the more fundamental question here: when we see that market players change things quickly, that the question of changes in society due to telecommunications, technology and data happens quickly, how should policy respond to this? Can we say that a four-year programme should not be discussed in the organs of the party during the four-year period, when at the same time we want the policy to play a significant role by being a precursor to a market and for changes in society? It's a politically important issue that the Center Party will have to take inwards, which the Government will have to take inwards, and which I hope the parties in the Storting will also take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e129	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e132	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. In the newspaper yesterday, state councillor Arnstad says that Norway must become a tenant when it comes to using new technologies for CO2-free gas power plants. In the Labour Party, we are very pleased with these new signals from the Council of State. Research at CO2-free gas power plants has simply never been a center stage bet area, rather the opposite. As late as in the budget procedure just before Christmas, the centre party refused to participate in a comment from the Right and the Labour Party to focus more on researching CO2-free gas power plants to improve greenhouse gas emissions. The Energy message does not mention the Government as a bet area. On the contrary, that's where it says: ‘In Norway, there is a strong incentive for increased use of new renewable energy sources such as wind power, bioenergy, steam pumps and solar energy.’ In other words, not a single word about CO2-free gas power plants. I want to ask the Council of State what it will do now, what initiative it will take to achieve its new goal, that this will be a bet area for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e144	I consider the technology development related to CO2-free gas power plants to be very important. It is clear that much of the new technology associated with this needs to be developed by the industry, but administrations can also contribute by playing a role. During the budget debate in Stortingen in the autumn, I took note of the comment from the majority to which Akselsen now refers. I also gave a response to this comment, in the sense that I said that the Government within the framework of the 2000 budget will ask the Research Council to prioritise research at CO2-free gas power plants. It is now set out in the letter of award that went to the Research Council and has been followed up as such. A commitment for this year beyond the framework of 2000, to which the representative Akssen and the Workers' Party have joined – I cannot see that there was a separate proposal from the Workers' Party on some increased commitment to CO2-free gas energy research – will be returned in the course of next year's budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e153	I thank you for your answer. What the Council of State is now saying is that it will support the view that the multi-annual comment behind the Labour Party, the Right and the Progress Party will now also be government policy. Of course, I am pleased with that, but I think it's strange that the contact between the government councils and the respective government parties in the committee was so bad in this area that these parties could not attend this remark. At least one would have stood a little stronger. Of course, I agree with the Council of State that it is important for industry itself to be active and to develop new technologies in this area. But at the same time, we know that the government we have today is more than willing to go in and participate in technology development in other areas of energy, such as energy. wind power. And I want to ask you if there's such a difference between these new technologies that it's much more relevant for the Government to support, for example. wind power other than CO2-free gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e162	My answer to the representative Aksenssen was that we have informed the Research Council that the research at CO2-free gas power plants must be prioritised within the framework we have today. And it is not the case today that there is no support for projects related to technology development in gas power plants. On the contrary, it will be. The project referred to in today's Akers newspapers has been supported, among other things. by state authorities, which are important, and which may also be possible in the years to come. With regard to the issue of increased frameworks – and I do not ignore the fact that we should have a discussion about it – there is a discussion that belongs to the next year's government budget. I see no reason for us to make a difference between research in renewable energy sources and in CO2-free gas power plants, because in my opinion, there is room for both in today's research funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e169	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e172	The right is also very pleased that the Council of State is now signaling an increased willingness to invest in research to produce so-called CO2-free gas power plants. This is a new signal in relation to what the Minister for the Environment has said earlier. In fact, we have an environmental protection minister who has said that she is skeptical of CO2-free gas power plants because they will be able to shift new, renewable energy sources, like wind turbines. I think that's quite incredible. But if the Council of State now signals the Government's new attitude, I'm very happy about it. From more than one research environment, including: SINTEF and NTNU, it's made very clear that these CO2-free gas power plants will be far ahead of time. It has been pointed out that the start of the so-called conventional gas power plant will also be important in order to produce the cleaner gas power from a five- to 10-year perspective. Does the Council agree with such an attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e179	The signal about research at CO2-free gas power plants and a prioritisation of it within the framework we have, I gave it to the representative Sanner in the budget debate last autumn. It's a shame if the representative doesn't prove it at the time and thus today see this as a new signal. So it was given months ago. I think we should be aware of the issue raised by some about the relationship between renewable power sources and gas power. We should prevent the emergence of contradictions between the development of new renewable energy sources and the emergence of an environmentally friendly gas energy technology. I'm of the opinion that we should wait for that technology. We are not in principle opposed to gas power plants, but the problem is the CO2 emissions associated with the gas power plants currently being planned. A technology that eliminates environmental problems is being developed, i.e. the pollution, the debate will take place in a different light. Otherwise, I have noticed that there are different perspectives from the research team and from the company regarding the time horizon for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e188	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e191	We have now lost two years when there is something more to be done to reduce CO2 emissions from gas power plants, for the technology fund, which was in the proposal of the government of Jagland, is gone, and the environmental fund, which was also available, is greatly reduced. But at least I'm glad that one should do more research on this, and that the government agrees that one should use several means of research for it. My question is on Saturday, January 8th, that the Council of State says it will force Statoil to use new technology that does not pollute. The question then is: will the Council of State now instruct Statoil, a co-owner of Natural Power, to use another technology? And when has the Council of State planned to call in to the General Assembly to instruct Statoil about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e198	I have no plans at all to instruct Statoil about that, and I have not used the wording to which the Newspaper refers. I have used the wording used by the Government in its Energy Communication, with which the Stortinget was made known last March, namely that if the authorities set strict conditions for the development of gas power, then the industry too will come up with new and more interesting solutions for the CO2 emissions of gas power plants. It is one of the premise that the Government does not want us to build gas power plants without implementing a new technology that eliminates CO2 emissions. So in that context, I have used the same wording at the meeting that I was at, as the one in the Government's Energy Communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e204	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e207	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. As several have already mentioned, it was last Sunday that a report from Handelshöjskolan BI was published in the Newspaper, claiming that building gas power plants in Norway that do not contaminate and that can produce a quarter of the power consumption in Norway is both socio-economic and business-economical. In the same newspaper on Monday, government parties said that they are cheering on this report and that they want to mobilise financial resources to develop CO2-free gas power plants in Norway. Several technological solutions have long been known to provide nearly CO2-free gas power plants, but they have all had in common that they have been too expensive both to build and operate. Is it really the case that government parties attach trust to this single report? Has the Government been in contact with actors who want to expand gas power to find out if they want to build under these conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e214	I have noticed the report on which it is based, as one of several contributions to the debate. I have not had the opportunity to go into detail in that report, and I have no reason to say that I support the report. But I think it's positive that there's more input into this debate, and not least that there's more nuanced input than we might have experienced over a period of time. I think that's good. It also allows the decision-making base of the political parties to be wider and more nuanced than it has been. As regards the issue of the development of new technologies, I believe that it should be possible to develop the new technologies until a new allowances system is in place. I've seen that there are slightly different attitudes among actors about how fast it can happen. No actors today have said that they are making investment decisions by building such a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning, but there are several actors involved in developing methods that can eliminate CO2 emissions. This concerns Hydro's model, Akers – as we see in the newspapers today – and also Statoils.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e221	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I referred to was, of course, the parliamentary leader in the Left's opinion in the newspaper on Monday, 10 January. It turned out that the government parties believed in new technology, which in turn would be profitable, and I expect, of course, that the so-called profitability does not drive the electricity prices in the weather. Wouldn't it make sense to begin to facilitate the development of the gas power plants already planned, so that they can relate to this fantastic technology when it has to be available?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e226	It's true that in the center parts we're technology optimists. We believe that it is possible in this society, as far as we have come to develop new technology, and that the industry with its expertise is able to do so. So we're optimistic about the years ahead. I think it is necessary for the political environment to wait for the new technology. I am also of the opinion that building conventional gas power plants now may be difficult to implement new technology. I noticed that Aker, who is one of the researchers in new technology, is expressing the same thing in today's newspapers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e233	There will be follow-up questions – Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e236	: In my view, the Government is running a double gas policy game. One of the premises of the Kyoto Agreement is that the world's so-called greenhouse gas emissions must be seen together. The government's environmental justification to say no to gas power plants in Norway really loses all credibility when it simultaneously sells gas from Norway to abroad, where it sells, among other things. used in gas power plants. No matter where the world produces electricity based on gas, the climate effect is the same. For the Government, in other words, electricity produced abroad is yes-power, while electricity produced in Norway is no-power. Can the Council of State explain the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e245	I would strongly oppose the description that the government would run any kind of double-playing when it comes to the gas power debate. Already nearly a year ago, we presented to Stortinget our view of gas power plants. It's been well known to the Storting for a long time, and we haven't sold it at all in terms of this. We have also had SFT's decision on emissions under the pollution law for a long time, and the Ministry of the Environment's confirmation of it on the table. I believe that what we have done in this matter has been open and has come to the knowledge of Storting a long time ago. Swallow if I agree that things are happening internationally, and that we export gas used in energy systems in other countries, I think Norway has to make its own choices as to which roads we want to go in the long term in relation to our own energy system. If we didn't, it would in principle be exactly the same if Norway used nuclear power, coal power, gas power or renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e254	Hallgeir Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e257	SV is pleased that the Government has a clear hold on this question. But it's going to be interesting to see how long it lasts, because now one view is that the Labour Party has turned around in this case when it comes to SFT's decision a year ago. They now want new guidelines, as far as you can read in the press, and so they seem to join the other coal-fired comrades, in the Right and the Advance Party. As a result, we are at risk of a setback for the environment. My question to the Minister is this about going in without doing anything about the pollution laws, and is just about to take a grip and order the Government to change the guidelines for the SFT. Is such a procedure normal, where appropriate acceptable? How does the Government intend to make such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e264	For my part, I do not have a prerequisite to know in detail what is in the decision and proposal of the Central Government of the Workers' Party. I expect that the Storting's treatment of the energy message will probably clarify some of the elements that have come into the debate these past few days. That is why I am not going to answer the question that the representative of Langeland is now asking at the end. But I want to say that in the decision taken by the Ministry of the Environment last summer, the issue of emission permits is linked to two things. It is linked to the fact that either one is based on a technology that cleans emissions or that one comes within an international allowances system, with clear rules of play on the day of its establishment. The press releases sent after the SFT and the Environment Ministry’s decisions pointed to two possibilities for changes related to the process in the future. One premise is that if technology evolves significantly over time before an international allowance system is established, there may be a basis for going in and reconsidering things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e272	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e275	I'm afraid Arnstad State Council won't rest yet. In a short time, the Stortinget will address the issue of the development of gas power plants in Norway. For many of us, it is a great paradox that in Norway, with our resources and competences, we are going to export the gas, so that we can import electricity either from Danish coal plants or from gas plants in other countries that use Norwegian gas as a raw material. It's an important thing. It has great industrial perspectives. In many ways it can be said that the gas can play the same role at the beginning of this century as the hydroelectric power played at the beginning of the previous. It has a large environmental perspective because Norwegian gas can replace polluting energy from other countries. Last week SFT-director Håvard Holm signalled an attitude that goes in the direction of the proposal that the Right has presented in the Stortinget. [[President clubs]] I want to give the Council a new opening to meet the majority of the Storing. [[President clubs]] Does she see the new signals from the SFT as an opportunity to reconsider the Government's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e284	The President asks the representative, Mr Sanner, to stay within the allocated time. It's a clock that shows how much time is available. It's one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e287	I'll try it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e292	I share Mr Sanner's view that we in Norway should use natural gas in several areas, for transport, industry and perhaps also for gas power generation. I agree that this is an important choice we are facing here. What we are discussing today is not whether we are going to use natural gas in Norway, but under what conditions we are going to use natural gas. The government is of the opinion that if natural gas is to be used in Norway, it must be done on an environmentally friendly basis. Then a weaning technology that eliminates the most polluting emissions has to be done. It is, in the government's view, a long-term choice that one must make, related to the use of this energy source. With regard to the question of SFT’s opinions and possible assessments related to SFT, I have no need to comment on what SFT has said in this case, nor on the opinion of the authorities about it. The SFT, as the representative Sanner knows, is not constitutionally subject to my department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e302	It's not just a question of terms, I think we can actually agree a good deal on the way to them. We are concerned that increased emissions in Norway need to be compensated for by reduced emissions elsewhere. It has many advantages. But it's also a question of when. This is not a new debate, this is not coming as the Christmas Eve on the bitch. We've been discussing gas power plants for almost ten years, and what the Council of State is signalling, is that we're going to continue to discuss this for another ten years. We have enormous resources, and we have competence. If Norway is to develop as an energy nation, if we are to contribute to industrial development, and if we are to contribute to the environment, we need to take the political decisions now. Does the Council of State begin to see that the Government is in spite of the political will of the Storting with the strict demands made on gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e309	Let me first underline that the Government expresses exactly the same attitude that it has previously expressed to the public and to the Storting regarding the attitude towards gas power plants. We have also communicated that to Stortinget through the Energy Communication. This is a debate on the conditions under which natural gas will be used. The most important premise for me is that we should not use it for power generation until we have a technology in place that removes the most polluting emissions. The Government, in the appeal following the SFT’s decision, has also opened up to look at the issue of an international allowance system. It seems to me that there is the will of the Government to assess. When this system is in place, when someone knows what the price of the allowances is, when someone knows which system is connected to it, when someone knows how verifiable the system is, then it's relevant. The representative Sanner now talks about is the period from today until a possible quota system is in place or a new technology, if any, has been implemented. [[President clubs]] This is probably a small leap in relation to the great leap of the representative, Mr Sanner, who believes this is all about. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e318	And that, the Council of State, was a leap beyond speaking time. We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e323	I would like to thank the female parliamentarians too for being allowed to deal with key issues. I have to interrupt this debate on oil and ask to ask the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs a question. The timing system was adopted by the Stortinget in June 1993, and the Christian People's Party was at the time very concerned that this was a forward-looking system that allowed parents to spend more time with the children. Unfortunately, the rules are perceived to be very difficult, and there's only 2 pst. – preferably by the mothers – who have chosen the scheme. It is with great apprehension that I read in the Newspaper on 28 December that the Council of State has threatened to cut off the scheme. Some questions arise in this regard. There is an agreement between the employer and the employee – does the Council ignore it? Is the scheme well known? At all: what will the Council of State do to change the system instead of cutting it out?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e332	I'm actually happy with the question. I probably reacted just as strongly as the questioner on the wording of the interview with me in the newspaper. What I said to the journalist was that I don't want to give up the scheme. I want to look at the scheme, maybe make it simpler and make it more familiar. I would also like to stress that this is one of the arrangements with which the Rikstrøgdeverket has worked a lot to make her aware. But I think one of the disadvantages of the time-accounting system is that she, as she was signed a few years ago, may be too rigid, and that it is difficult to make changes in the course of time. Actually, it's impossible. What I want is to have a dialogue with the Swedish National Agency, and we've already set up a meeting that the Ministry will have with them to see what we can do to get even more out of the system. I would also like to say that all pregnant women, through information at health centres and in contact with the various agencies, actually receive information about the time accounting system, along with the other arrangements that one has for families in connection with birth. It gives a pretty good and thorough information to all those involved, but it's obvious that it's not enough. I even thought it was a good order. I don't want to give up, and I want to go a lot of rounds both with the Reichstrøgdewerk and with the users before the scheme gets iced up. That is my position on the timing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e341	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I thought was very positive. But it is clear that the system needs to be made better known. When it's just 2 pst. Selecting a time-accounting scheme that is almost free of charge for the government, you can read from the statistics that from 1998 to 1999 – in the year in which the cash support was introduced – it is only 7 pst. several of the parents who choose to take full leave for their one-year-olds. And then my question to the Council of State is, how low is the percentage increase for parents taking care of their own children in relation to the cash support? How low should that percentage be before the Council of State chooses to cut out such a scheme, which, after all, costs the state much more than the time-accounting system does – in fact, NOK 3 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e349	That's to the extent that a new main question I get. I should try to give a short answer. When I say that I want to go several rounds regarding the Time Account Scheme when only 2 pst. I actually have a lot to do when it comes to cash support – compared to the use of it and those who care about their children. Cash support should also be evaluated, as the representative is aware, and we should go through new rounds with the Time Account Scheme. I think both of these schemes together are helping to make your everyday life better for parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e356	There will be follow-up questions – Jon Olav Alstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e359	It could have been tempting to point out that in connection with the cash support it is only 0.7 pst. by the fathers who use it, and challenge the Council of State on what kind of consequences she believes it must get not least to stimulate fathers to use it much more. We have a number of measures that we can take to get it done. The lack of information has clearly been a problem with the Time Account Scheme from the very beginning, while there is a complex scheme. The impression that it is difficult is great both for employers and not least for those who are going to make use of this offer. And if I understood correctly, until now, there has been no particular effort to improve the availability of this offer. Can the Council of State point to concrete things that can be done in the future so that the Time Account Scheme can become a more effective offer? I'm pretty sure that's an offer that's very much needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e366	First of all, when it comes to the use of cash support by fathers, we actually come up with a move, and that is to suggest our own rights. I think that will lead to more fathers also using the right to care for their children in their first phase of life. I'm optimistic about that. When it comes to making the time account better known, I said in my first answer that all pregnant people are getting information about the time accounting system. And especially more than all pregnant women, we don't actually have to reach. But anyway, we've set up a meeting with the Rikstrøgdeverket. I think they, through their people at social security offices, need better information. The government agency itself says that this is one of the arrangements they have spent the most time and effort to get the information out well, but we can probably do it even better. I'm going to do my part to make the system feel better, but especially more than all those who are pregnant, I really don't think we need to reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e373	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e376	My question goes to the Minister of Education. I promise not to ask about gas power plants. At Rogaland University, the situation is that about 100 employees have to work in wrecks. The students almost cross on top of each other. In the long run, the situation is unsustainable. It is urgent that the newly built project has been discussed for several years, but for which one has not yet received project funding. My question is simply whether the Minister of Education now wants to put his weight in order to advance this project? I had hoped that we could get a result using our common weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e385	I have a lot of understanding of the last reasoning of the representative Simonsen, that with common weight, most things should be able to go with these two people. To be serious, it's a rather difficult problem for the representative Simonsen to point out. There is a great need for new constructions on the Hochskulen in Stavanger, as it is at a lot of other high-sphericals. The nation of Norway has a very high activity for the time being, and on that background, the government chose not to submit proposals for new buildings in the budget currently agreed. There was also a glimmer from a large part of the Storting, where a clear multiple said the same thing. At the same time, the Government has prioritised building for continuation and start on the day it is to be rebuilt. In the government's proposal was the Hochskulen in Halden number one, the Hochskulen in Stavanger number two, and then there was an overview of many other buildings. The size joined up to this, and also brought in some other building that should be built up, and gave some design tools there. With Halden and Stavanger standing in the places they do, I'm having conversations with Statsbygg these days so that the free design resources they have can be used on exactly these marbles. I am very optimistic that we should be able to obtain funds so that we can complete the project, so that it is clear on the day of government and staging giving a clear signal for several new buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e396	I must say I am quite satisfied with the response of the Council of State. There's a recognition that there's a desperate need. And so such recognition has led the Council of State to put pressure on state buildings to get ahead of the project. I don't really have any additional questions, just want to thank you for the answer. If I had an additional question, it had to be only if the council had had a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e401	The President has some doubts as to whether the Council of State wants to answer the supplementary question, but leaves it to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e404	Yes, then I would like to confirm the representative's question. As a continuation of the matter that he raised, I would like to say that we continue to put common weight in the work, and I believe that Stavanger will do well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e409	The President assumes that it's best to get on with the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e413	I have a completely different question for the Minister of Education. We very much agree that the Norwegian school is largely good, but too often we get examples of worn-out and partly hazardous buildings in the schoolwork. The students have no law to ensure their working environment, as everyone else in society has. There's a prescription, but now it turns out this one doesn't work. It is not a tool for students and parents to ensure that errors are corrected. A decision has been taken to establish a law to ensure the working environment of the pupils in line with those in work, but it has been legally late. A year and a half ago, the Council of State was asked to speed up the work. Now first it is rumored that a sample is about to finish its work. Then it'll probably be a while before the department gets something delivered to us. Why does it take so long? Does the Council of State think it is right that many rivers have jobs no one else would accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e422	I am pleased that the representative Norvoll said that it was legal late and not illegal late, because I am willing to admit that this matter has taken longer than she should from my government. Yesterday I received a selection work from a working group that has assessed the matter. What they've been going through in particular is what's different from any law and the regulation that was introduced from 1 January last year, which is going to take care of the same conditions. What is the conclusion of this working group is that in most areas, this regulation covers what a law would do. There are two exceptions: the only one is user involvement. There is the intention in the regulation that it should work the same way, but it is not the same legal rights for users to get things up in the system. The other applies to the right of appeal and to the supervisory authority. The municipality itself has supervisory powers, and it is referred to as a difference between the supervisory authority and the employment environment law. Then the representative Norvoll says it's all clear that the regulation doesn't work well enough. That conclusion may be correct, but during this month the evaluation of the regulation, i.e. a review of all municipalities, will be carried out by the Ministry of Health. Then we'll be able to establish it. So once we get the report I got yesterday, and we get that evaluation, we're going to come to the Stortinget quickly with an assessment and any proposals for changes. It is important not just to put new laws on top of the others, but to see if it is possible to improve what is already in place, so that the amount of laws does not become too large. We also need a simpler Norway. The representative Norvoll and I agree that something needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e433	The first time a decision was taken to seek the legal protection of the students' working environment was in the previous period. Then there was a longer assessment in the education committee of whether to have a regulation or a law. We stated that we wanted a law to ensure the highest possible level of protection. The head of the committee then was Jon Lilletun, so I'd like to warn you that you are now going away from what the Stortinget has previously decided. When the Council of State says this is going to happen quickly, I have to ask: what is fast in this context? And will he do something immediately to improve the students' working environment and safety while we wait and wait for this work to be completed in selection and not least in the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e440	I'm not quite sure that all the time that the Stortinget made the decision it did, it was quite clear how comprehensive the regulation that was then adopted, but not seen in life, was, and that's why we've taken the similar assessment. In any case, I was not aware of how comprehensive the regulation was as the previous government put in place. What's going on? Ask the representative, Norvoll. If we change the order of the two points I said, the government can do it quite straightforwardly. If a law is created, there is a longer project. In any case, I promise that I will inform the Storting what the Government will do, in this big session, that is, before summer, so that this can be done reasonably quickly. But what we can do faster is strengthen the regulation, because legal work takes a lot longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e447	There will be follow-up questions – Rune Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e450	This is a matter that very many people are concerned about. There are tens of thousands of students in school who have climate conditions that are very difficult, and the Children's Ombudsman says in the newspaper today that he is very disappointed with the pace that the Council of State has had in this matter. And when the Council of State today says to the Newspaper that there will soon be a change of rules, we are also familiar with the Council of State's view of what'soon' is in other contexts, and it can often take a very long time. Is it soon in this context that, in the view of the Council of State, it is estimated that one month, half a year, or a year? Now he said in the first six months, before the summer, and that's something more concrete than what we might be used to, but at least I want to ask the Council of State to step up in relation to the matter that has been dealt with and that is up here in the Question Time today. And I want to challenge the Council of State to be more concrete about when there may be a change of rules on the part of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e455	Then I'll repeat it once again, I think I was pretty concrete. What I said was, if we make a change in the regulation, it could happen pretty soon and be put into action pretty quickly. If we are going to do legal work, it will take longer, but at least the Storting is going to be familiar with the results before the summer break. And it's as concrete as I'm going to be. It is quite right that the representative Rune Kristiansen says, that there are many kids who have it hurt because of this, but I want to remind you that this is not something that has arisen right now. We have a common responsibility for quite so many years in relation to the rules and laws we have had when it comes to maintenance. It could be said a lot about who has been responsible for it, but now it is important to do something, and it should be done soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e462	Let's move on to a new main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e465	I would like to ask the Minister of the Church, Education and Research. Right is very concerned about the environment in the school and sees it as important to create a better school. Twice before, I have asked questions on behalf of the Right Council of State about the election of teachers in Norwegian school, for the first time on the basis of the fact that every fourth teacher in childhood and youth was exposed to election, for the second time on the basis of media reports on death threats to teachers and attempts to fire. The Council of State has both shown that this is a serious and important matter and that there will be a meeting in the near future. He has also said that we need to do something concrete about this situation. The situation has not improved in the two years that have passed since I first asked, rather on the contrary. And I would like to ask the Council of State: what has been done and what will be done when it applies to the increasing power to teachers in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e472	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Løvik, that this is a serious problem. I remember the two previous questions, and I think they were somewhat more extensive than what is now being asked, that there was a general election in the school. It is quite clear that this is something we take seriously, but we have to admit that it is a long-term process to reverse that trend. A number of action plans against selected and bullying are adopted and implemented, and some places work less well and others work less well. It has been developed in cooperation between our department and the parental selection for the basic school a number of guidance projects, and we have strengthened the PP service in the school now with about 220 settings, which also goes into this work. The schooling programme has been established, evaluated and expanded. We have expanded the police contact system in the school, so that today it is quite outsourced. I want there to be police contact at the schools that want it. We have a development programme with the Ministry of Children and Family in ten municipalities, where we try to have a cross-sectional project that goes with respect to power. In cooperation with the Crime Prevention Council, we have a educational package available to all schools. We have also just adopted an action plan against racism – it is these environments that have been responsible for some of the worst in relation to teachers – and we have a specialist group to assess different programmes for strengthening the learning and growth environment, in cooperation between the KUF and the BFD. Overall, this work is intensified quite extensively. But I'm not saying that this problem is solved, it's a long-term worsening of the problems I think we've stopped, and we're getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e481	I thank you for your answer. But my question was blatant both now and in the past, especially with regard to teachers, who are also very serious. We know that the government is now proposing a change of law that makes it possible for the municipality, not for the individual school, to move the elephants in very special cases out of class and school. This is so positive, but hardly so. And for the Right, it's very important that the school has the ability to respond in cash when such things occur. I think we also have to put this into a larger context. Inclusion and integration in the ordinary school have been very positive in Norway, but I now believe that 25 years after special schools were lifted, we need to take time to see if some single lives, both in the case of electives and other elephants, could have had a better offer than the ordinary school. Will the State Council also consider such measures in the further work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e491	I can confirm that we will consider many measures, but not the creation of the special school system again. The idea of integration has come, and it has been legal – and we're going to stand by it. At the same time, however, it is clearly demonstrated that in individual cases it may be useful for both the student and the school to take a student out and place him in a new environment. And it has been shown that what has been a problem has been quite different in another school in the vicinity, or in reinforced schools in some municipalities. We want to evaluate the experience we have with these selective measures, and we will of course also wait for the answer that the national lawyer is now going to give to the Teachers' Association, as they want a case to be reported immediately, without having to do it. Here we'll follow carefully what the Riksadvokat says about this, but the special school system is gone too well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e498	There will be follow-up questions – Bjørn Hernæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e501	Almost all the debate on serious crime trends refers to the importance of prevention. In this context, the importance of cooperation between parents and schools is always emphasised. Now we see in the Newspaper of January 6 that the Teachers' Association demands public charges for violence against teachers, because teachers themselves do not report violence. Then we are in this disclaimer situation, which is up in many contexts of our debate. I would like to ask the Council of State if he does not acknowledge that, first of all, the system has already suffered damage when the school itself is unable to hold a discipline that prevents violence against the students. I also want to ask if the Council of State does not find it timely to bring up with the teacher organisations the change of attitude among the teachers who must if they do not have what we in the old days called civil courage to report when they are exposed to a violence that they themselves have not been able to prevent. Are we just going to transfer everything to law enforcement, police and law enforcement – and prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e510	As I said, I will wait for the attorney general's answer in this matter. But the reason why the Teachers' Association has sent the application is that there is a fear of represals from the most eloquent if the teachers themselves report the case. I do not want to decide until I have seen the lawyer's assessment. Then I would like to tell the representative here next that we cannot just load all the responsibility into the school. It is the case that parents have the primary responsibility for the assignment, and the school should help the home. From this point of view, we also need to see that a teacher and a school class and a school are in a much tougher situation now than before, and that is why not just show that they were disciplines before. But when that is said, I will meet up with what the representative Hernæs asks about, and of course I will also discuss the last play that has come from the Teachers' Union in relation to the overall situation in the school. It is serious that this happens, but now it is still the exception – and it is also important to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e517	Grete Knudsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e520	I interpret the answer Lilletun now gave to the representative Løvik, that one cannot be pushed towards a school policy other than the one for which there is a large majority here in this house. When you are in a difficult situation in a school and you have problems with individual students, the answer is to provide more adults who can help in a community. Moving individual lives out is a very short-term policy, because at some point they have to enter society and act as community people. So my question is whether, as part of this action plan, the Government will continue its efforts to introduce more adults into school, not least in early life, so that each individual student is given much greater security, and so that each individual learner is also safer in his situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e529	Finally, I want to say yes: we've seen an experiment with greater learning density, we've also said that we want new groups of professionals, and we're going to continue that work. When it comes to what was the starting point for the question of the representative Knudsen as a follow-up to the previous questions, I will confirm that the Government and the Council of State are not going to be pressured to reintroduce the special school system. On the other hand, I believe that there may be a need to assess whether it should be possible in individual cases to move a student not far to a special school, but perhaps to the neighbouring school, perhaps to a more practical approach. We've had examples that the whole class has moved and the student has a seat again, and we have to make a little bit of an opening compared to that. But as the lead, the representative is Knudsen and the Council of State and the Government agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e536	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e539	I have a question for the Council of State Lilletun, and it goes on some of the same thing that the representative Norvoll had in connection with the HMS regulation, and the article that is in the Newspaper today. In fact, it is very important to introduce Reform 97 that parents are safe for young children when they are in school, 100 pst. safe. As late as this year, in 2000, there was again a near-accident in the municipality of Sørum, where a 6-year-old slipped through the schoolyard, out of the schoolyard and out on a highway. It was just luck that made this child not run over. Today's fuse is a hole fence and a broken gate. What will the Council of State do to introduce minimum standards for the protection of the local environment of the kindergartens for young children specifically?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e548	In the regulation mentioned by the representative, the relationship is also mentioned. There are two things we need to look at in the evaluation, which will lead to the end of the month. The one thing is: Is it good enough to take stock of the text and the directives? And just like that, if it's done, is the user part and the supervision part strengthened, as I said? So what I want to do is include that moment in the treatment that we're now going to have of this thing. I think when it comes to the 6-year-olds and Reform 97, maybe the 6-year-olds have the best locals in Norwegian school today. Because of the state funding scheme for school buildings in the implementation of the reform, I believe that the very majority of six-year-olds have good time rooms. The area may ask a slightly larger question, as the representative says. Of course, be safe from doing what may be done to ensure that it is safe. But at the same time, playing will always have a risk, it will always be so that things can happen. And I'm a little afraid that society thinks we can prevent all kinds of accidents. What we've done in relation to, for example, the acting apparatus might suggest that you didn't get the idea that it could actually happen accidentally. But I'm going to stare the representative Evje at what's her main concern. We have to do it as safely as we can, and in the evaluation and the continuation of the work that I have talked about earlier today, the point that the representative Evje has taken up here now will be taken on board.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e559	I have a short follow-up question. The treatment of such a case usually takes some time both in the department and in this house. In the meantime, we may well have children who are maimed or killed when they should have been safe in school. Can the Council of State envisage making some kind of circular or anything that instructs the municipalities to really monitor this, and take immediate action until something more lasting comes up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e567	Consciousness of all those responsible outside, and the importance of ourselves, is important at all times. As I said in a previous answer: if we decide that is the rule we want to strengthen, it can happen quite quickly. In that case, I would like us to take the announcement that the representative asked for, in that context. Should we find that the law we're going to go – and it will take longer – I'll meet what the representative Evje asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e572	There will be follow-up questions – Rolf Rikvam.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e575	The Children's Ombudsman has previously estimated that it will cost approx. EUR 15 billion to renovate kindergartens and kindergartens in order to meet the requirements of the physical working environment contained in the regulation. In a municipality like Hammerfest, we know it will cost 130 million. to comply with the requirements laid down in the regulation, and the regulation applies only to the physical working environment. But a possible law, a work environment law for the students, should include something more, it should also include what goes on in participation, student participation, both in education and in school communities, etc. My question to the Council of State is: When he sits and assesses whether to propose a new law or do something with the regulations, will this element of student participation be part of the assessments, so that he has a greater perspective than only the physical working environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e582	I have said that one of the things that probably needs to be strengthened is user involvement, but that of course applies primarily to the physical environment and the working environment. The piece taken up by the representative Rikvam, with a proper impact on the whole everyday life and the student participation part, is very important in relation to the learning situation in the school. I mean, it doesn't primarily belong to the home in the regulation or in such a work environment law, but it belongs primarily to curriculums, in the action plans of the school as a whole. And there are strong improvements in the new training law. We have tried to strengthen this in cooperation with some voluntary organisations and the student organisations. I'm willing to go quite far in continuing the work of democracy and participation in the school, but I think it's best to do it in the ordinary laws that we have in the foundation, and in the ordinary business plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e589	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e594	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Prime Minister, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Prime Minister has left. Questions 2 and 3 from the representative of Mr Godal to the Minister for Foreign Affairs must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 7, from the representative Øystein Hedstrøm to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been away, Question 8, from the representative Synnøve Konglevoll to the Minister for Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 17, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Health, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 23, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e639	These questions are put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e645	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘In response to my question to the Minister of Finance in regular Question Time on 24 November 1999 on the failure of new car sales in Norway, the Council of State reports that the average new car sales in 1996-1998 is 143 000. According to my information, this is incorrect. Where did the Council of State get its figures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e654	The answer to the specific question is a short and good statistical central agency. However, I would like to give a somewhat more comprehensive answer to help explain the discrepancy between different car numbers. The figures quoted were based on the statistics for the first registration of cars, which are thus taken from the Central Statistical Office, which in turn bases its statistics on figures from the Directorate of Roads. The representative's question on 24 November 1999 was about what I thought was the reason for the fall in new car sales so far in 1999. I gave my assessment of that. In the answer, however, I also gave some figures, among others. the annual average number of newly registered cars in Norway between 1996 and 1998. These statistics cover both registered new and used imported cars and are that reference, among other things. The Ministry of Finance uses to measure the activity in this market. Among other things, when a person wants to see how the purchase of cars by households affects the average age of the Norwegian fleet, it is relevant to include the imported vehicles used. The average age of the imported vehicles used is clearly lower than the average age of the Norwegian fleet. Imports of second-hand vehicles were between 1000 and 8,000 cars per year up to 1995. In 1996, imports of second-hand cars increased to more than 20 000, and they were in the current period, 1996-1998, on average, to less than 24 000 per year. The first-time registration of new cars was in the same period, on average, of less than 124 000. Thus, on average over this three-year period, the total initial registration was 147 500. In the event of an incurrency, I unfortunately got in my reply on 24 November to give an incorrect number of first registered cars, which is 143,000 instead of 147 500. The correct figures are also available in the national budget for 2000. I realize that the information on the number of first registered cars could seem confusing since the question on 24 November was limited to the development of the new car sales. However, I believe that first registrations, i.e. the sum of new and used imported cars, provide a more accurate picture of the development of the Norwegian car park than the sale of the new car alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e672	I thank you for the answer, which, of course, I am not satisfied with. I have to say that when the Council of State operates with first registered cars when I ask about the new car sales in the course of the year, there are two very different things. In my question I asked clearly about the new car sale, i.e. completely new cars. And I got the following answer: ‘Despite a certain decrease over the second half of last year, in the period 1996-1998, a total of 143 000 cars were recorded on an annual average.’ It has to be understood, of course, that new cars are registered, and that one does not bring the used cars, as the council here does. I feel led behind the light. And I have the following questions to the President: Will he, in subsequent questions, make sure that I get the correct information, and that he will in future come up with the information that is correct? [[The President clubs.]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e686	The President will ask that a person respect the speaking time, which is one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e689	I assume that Johnsen intended to address the question to the Minister of Finance via the President, and not to the President. I assume it was a delay. What was the theme of the question on November 24th was what my explanation was that there had been a decline in new car sales. And there was no disagreement about; we disagreed a little about just how great a decline it had been, but we agreed that there was a significant decrease. As I said, I understand that it may have seemed confusing when I used what is normal, namely first-time registered cars, which include not only completely new cars, but also used car imports. And as used car imports have increased sharply since 1996, the proportion of these used cars has, of course, increased. But I'm going to say something that can be seen as a correction of numbers. I stated in my reply on 24 November 1999 that it was estimated in the national budget that first registered cars in 1999 would be 117 000. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e698	I thank you again for the answer, which, of course, I am not yet satisfied with. I have to say that I expect the Councils of State from this pulpit to come up with the correct figures that I am asking for. In Norway we have the oldest car park in Western Europe with an average of ten-year-old cars. Of families with three children, it's 97 pst. Who has a car. Of families with two children, it's 92 pst. Who has a car. So these are driving around in the most dangerous cars in Western Europe. Does the Minister for Finance think this is satisfactory? And if he doesn't think so, what will he do so that we can get a change of this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e705	The President has some doubts as to whether this is a follow-up question in relation to the main question, but allows the Council of State to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e708	I note that this time, as on 24 November, Johnsen is not satisfied at all with the answers he receives from the Minister of Finance. If it makes Jan Johnsen feel comfortable, I'm sorry that a number was given that could seem confusing, since it was the new car sales that was the main theme. But it wasn't the number of new cars sold that was Johnsen's question at the time, it was just the explanation that a reduction in new car sales had been achieved in Norway as opposed to the rest of Europe. And I believe that I gave a good answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e717	I hope that I get a little more satisfied with the answers from the Minister of Finance. I have the following questions: «The rate of the form tax was increased in the harvest by the non-price adjustment of the free amount. In Christmas, the Minister of Finance said that the property tax is not life-creating as it is gradually more and more a curious tax on Norwegian ownership. The Minister of Finance has also said this in the past. He has also previously stated that there is too much difference in the taxation of capital and labour income, but has nevertheless increased the marginal tax on labour to 56 pst. in the autumn. When will the Council of State propose the liquidation of the property tax?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e724	Today's property tax is, in my opinion, associated with significant weaknesses. It is, among other things, as a result of the fact that different property items are valued in part very differently. I have pointed out in the past that this seems to be a little reasonable and that either one should work towards a more equal valuation for property taxes or that the wealth tax should be removed. However, the abolition of taxes on wealth raises several questions. Among other things, one has to clarify how the proceeds of almost DKK 6 billion should be recovered and how one can maintain a good distribution profile in the tax system. Despite the shortcomings of the property tax, it is paid for by a large proportion of persons with the highest income. In 1997, nearly a quarter of the property taxes were paid by one percent of the population with the highest incomes. These conditions require changes in the taxes on wealth to be seen in the context of changes in the rest of the tax system. Such work will require considerable efforts by the Ministry of Finance and will need to take some time. In the spring, I will present two other comprehensive tax cases to the Stortinget: a proposal for value added tax reform and a proposal for a housing tax. These matters are demanding and are given the highest priority in the ministry. I can therefore not now promise that proposals for changes in the taxes on wealth or other major changes to the tax regime can also be promoted in this session. However, I consider the current tax issues to be so important that they will be worked to present them to the Storting as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e733	First, I must say that I am pleased that the Minister of Finance states that he believes that the wealth tax is not life-style. I understand that he has difficulties in making any proposal to wind up the property tax during the spring session. When the Minister of Finance now says that he is going to promote a proposal on housing taxes and on value added tax for spring, does that mean that the Minister of Finance will not come up with what he has promised, namely a follow-up with regard to flat tax – a transformation of the tax system – where it would have been natural to also address what is going on with the taxes on wealth? Will the Minister of Finance say something about when the follow-up on flat tax comes, and about the wealth tax will then also be treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e738	It is true that we in the Ministry of Finance are being treated, among others. a false tax investigation. I have long had intentions – and I see that it would have been very desirable – that this case could be promoted as a big message already in the spring session, so that the Storting could deal with the matter and give feedback. I have not completely given up the idea, but I was in my previous answer honest enough to say that I dare not promise that it can happen, simply because the capacity of the Ministry of Finance is affected by other major issues. If that is possible, it is still my desire to be able to promote this already in the spring session, but at least no longer will be spent on this matter than is strictly necessary. As I said in my first answer, these major tax questions will be submitted to the Stortinget as soon as practicable. It is natural that the fate of the property tax should also be assessed on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e743	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is positive that the Minister of Finance confirms that the Ministry is dealing with the future of the property tax, that it is not just something that the Minister of Finance thinks about, and that it will be part of a position on flat tax. Of course, whether it comes during the spring session or the autumn, is up to the Minister of Finance. The sooner it gets here, the better. A problem is, of course, to raise the issue of flat taxation when the tax was reduced in the autumn, but there is probably a question the Minister of Finance is working on. When it comes to assessing the taxes on wealth, you will see the 80 pst rule – a restriction rule that you do not have to pay more than 80 pst. of taxes on wealth and income — and make it real? Today, many people actually pay more because of a 0.6 pst. rule – you can't lower the property tax more than 0.6 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e750	If the wealth tax is passed on, I assume that the way to value the various property items needs to be improved, so that the property tax becomes something fairer and fairer than it is today. If that happens, of course, the 80 pst rule will still matter. I will not simply say that I mean 80 pst.-the rule is unreasonable as it is today, and at least I will not promise that changes will be made there. If, on the other hand, the property tax is removed, the 80 pst rule is no longer interesting. And then it doesn't matter anymore and automatically zeros out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e758	‘The Minister of State has notified the Government of proposals to amend the current option rules. The regulatory framework for options is so complicated that a manual of 80 pages is required for guidance. In Sweden, it has now been decided to amend the legislation so that options are taxed when they are redeemed, and this is also how it is done to keep competent employees. What timetable has the Government set for the introduction of option rules that are competitive with what is seen in other countries, by changing the timing of taxation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e765	I see many positive aspects in companies choosing to assign employee options as part of their total salary. The option mechanism allows employees to participate in the company’s profits, thus contributing to increased effort and productivity. Such arrangements may also be used to associate with qualified staff. In particular, for start-up enterprises with low liquidity but with a high growth potential for shares, it may be appropriate to use options as remuneration. In such cases, employees will be able to accept relatively low cash remuneration at the beginning, whereas instead they will be given options and thus benefit from any increase in the value of the shares. As of the 1996 income year, new rules on the taxation of options in employment were introduced by amending the law. In the past, employment options were taxed on the redemption or sale of the option. The new rules meant that the benefit of an option in employment is already taxed by the acquisition of the option. The advantage will be calculated according to template rules. If the subsequent redemption or sale of the option gives an advantage in addition to the income taxed by the acquisition, the additional benefit is taxed as labour income. If the option is redeemed or sold with a lower gain than the amount taxed, or is forfeited as worthless, the general income is deducted. In particular, the background to the introduction of new and strict tax rules for options was that managers of larger enterprises were known to have option agreements with a partially very latent gain. The aim was to limit the interest in giving and receiving such options by immediately becoming a tax burden. However, in addition to limiting the use of options with significant value to managers, strict tax rules also limit the use of option schemes provided, for example: as motivation schemes for a larger group of employees in the enterprise, or as a means of joining and retaining specially qualified staff. The government considered this to be an unfortunate thing. As a result, the 1999 budget proposed adjustments to the option tax. The proposal was to provide the Ministry of Finance with a regulatory home to exempt options with an estimated value of less than DKK 300000 from taxation by acquisition. The majority asked that the limit be increased to NOK 600 000, which was followed up by the Ministry of Finance. The exemption from the acquisition tax shall be subject to compliance with certain conditions governing the distribution of the option scheme in the holding. We have now gained experience with the limited exemption from the acquisition tax on options. Many suggest that it may be appropriate to relax the option tax in order to meet the business needs of using options as an instrument to link and maintain qualified staff. Further facilitations in option taxation will therefore be considered. I aim to come back to Stortinget with a concrete proposal during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e782	First I have to say that I am pleased that the finance minister now says that he will provide a review of the option tax during the spring. I was afraid that this would have happened first in connection with the state budget, possibly taking a little longer. It's positive. The fact that the Minister of Finance says that ‘much indicates’ that today’s option legislation is not good enough, and that one wants to ‘assess’ the promotion of change was not entirely as obligating as I had hoped. Nor was it entirely as binding as the Prime Minister was at the NHO conference, at least not as I understood him. Then the Prime Minister said clearly that changes should be made to the option tax today, where only the instruction book is on 80 pages. Can the Minister of Finance confirm the need to follow up what the Prime Minister said, namely to improve the option regime, and that it is the level of improvement of the option tax that is now being discussed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e789	When I formulated myself so carefully as to say that ‘much indicates’ that the rules are not good enough, it has its background, among other things. in a look-up in Today’s Business on 10 January, just a few days ago, referring to an “option party” in the IT industry, where it appears that last year key persons and employees in 19 Norwegian IT companies were given shares and options worth almost NOK 3.4 billion, and that 2 billion of these were purely gainful. So it's clear that that scheme is already being used on a significant scale. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a need for further improvement. In my answer I did not say that it is that we consider making proposals. On the contrary, I announced that there would be concrete proposals. What we are considering is what proposals we are going to make. In the speech by Mr Brende, the Prime Minister, said that: ‘The Government intends to come to Stortinget with proposals for amended rules on option taxation that will bring Norway closer to the countries with which we compete’. It will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e809	First, I would like to say that you should not be surprised that you are actually using a system that is there. The system we have in Norway is much more restrictive than in the countries around us, and that is why we also see that a number of newly started IT companies have difficulties in connecting to the best brains, and we are well served that some of them remain in Norway. It was said here the last day that we now see Internet companies buying other companies. But in five years there will be no such Internet companies anymore, for all companies must be Internet companies in some way, in order for Norway to also be able to participate in this value creation. Therefore, we should also have competitive rules, in order to keep part of these brains. When the Minister of Finance says that there will be a case of changes to the option taxation rules for spring and that he sticks to what the Prime Minister said that we should be more in line with other countries, will there be the tax at the time when you actually use them, which will be the current assessment by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e818	I agree with the representative, Børge Brende, that we have to ensure that we have rules in Norway also with regard to option taxation, which makes us competitive, and that Norwegian companies can attract key personnel in line with companies abroad. Otherwise, we're not gonna make it. It is also why both the Prime Minister and those who are signed in public have announced in the Christmas/New Year that we will make proposals for further improvement of the option rules, even if it is no more than one year since we received the latest improvements. Exactly what the proposal is being promoted to spring, to go on, I won't yell here and now. But it stands true, as I said, that we intend to follow up what the Prime Minister said in his talk at the NHO conference, which I quoted in my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e830	This question, from the representative of Øystein Hedstrom to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Church, Education and Research on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e833	I have a question for the Minister of the Church, Education and Research, who answers on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture: ‘In 1999, there has been a significant regulatory export where about 19 000 tonnes of prima bovine and porcine meat have been dumped in the world market for a tow and nothing. In 2000, it will be impossible to export away from the problems of surplus, because WTO rules limit the use of export subsidies to 3000 tonnes of pigs and 1000 tonnes of bovine animals. What strategy has been adopted for the rational management of the meat surplus problem?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e842	The balancing of food markets is a key challenge in agricultural policy both in Norway and in many other countries. The general strategy for the problem of meat surplus and the long-term market regulation policy is drawn up in St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, About Norwegian agriculture and food production, now under treatment in the United Kingdom. For the year 2000, Norwegian export volume and export aid must not exceed the actual commitment for the year, as opposed to previous years in the period 1995-99, where there has been some flexibility in export access between years. I would like to stress that, in accordance with the agricultural agreement, it is the responsibility of agriculture to cover the costs of overproduction of agricultural products. The industry itself must implement the necessary measures within the framework set by the authorities. In this connection, the industry has, among other things: carried out the following actions: Reduced market price: as a market regulator, the meat co-operation has a responsibility to charge prices in accordance with the agricultural agreement. Due to overproduction, prices are expected to be lower than the target price, approximately DKK 3 per year. kg for both pigs and bovine animals on an annual basis. Reduced prices will encourage domestic sales of meat. Previous depopulation of pigs and cattle, such as: calving. Reduction of the total slaughter rate by maternal depopulation, such as: the slaughter of sows. Moreover, the reduction in milk production will in the long term lead to a reduction in the quantity of bovine meat. It is important to stress that all these measures are covered by producers themselves, on the one hand through lower producer prices and, on the other hand, through increased turnover taxes paid by producers of beef and pigmeat. With the strong constraints of the WTO agreement on the use of regulatory export, the need to adapt production to the domestic market becomes greater than in the past. Profit production has to be regulated in the domestic market to a greater extent than in the past. Within the framework drawn up by the authorities and in international agreements, it will continue to be for manufacturers themselves and their organisations to find practical solutions to these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e869	I thank the Council of State for the answer. On the foreign market in 1999, pigmeat has been sold at prices down to NOK 3 per year. kg and beef to NOK 6 per tonne. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg. Although some production-limiting measures have been put in place, which were also the subject of the Council of State, and even if corrected, the meat surplus in Norway is estimated to be around 2000 at around 20 %. 12,000 tonnes. The Council of State was concerned that this is the industry's own responsibility, that it pays for it itself. That is only partly correct, because, having a trading law and that, when a surplus is made in the market, farmers have the opportunity to move this surplus into the regulatory warehouse and take the bottom off the market, it is consumers who ultimately pay the bill in the form of higher food prices. We must not forget that in this context. The Sales Act provides for cheap sales by offering meat products at a lower price. Consumers within the current system will receive some of their expensively paid subsidies back in the form of lower prices. Will the Council of State make provision for cheap sales of meat products as a means of reducing profits?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e876	I would like to refer to my previous reply that a surplus of beef and pigmeat in addition to the quantities that can receive export aid under the WTO commitments must be set aside on the domestic market. It is within the mandate of the Management Board to take any decision on the cheap meat. Any cheap sales will be financed by producers through the sales charge. Experience in the last cheap sale shows that the net effect is limited due to reduced sals beyond the cheap period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e881	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. That's probably some of what he says, but it's also another element: if you significantly reduce the price of meat products, not just by three, four, five kroner, as suggested in the announcement that is being treated in Stortinget, but goes further, you might get some of those who are currently shopping in Sweden – and it's about significant quantities of meat – to trade this product in Norway. This would reduce overproduction — or the amount of meat that is not sold — in that area. Does the Government have any long-term strategy in this area to adapt production to the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e886	The government's long-term policy proposals in this area are referred to as St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The current instrument in this area is price measures and quantitative measures. The instrument system must be designed in such a way as to avoid permanent excess problems and the target prices must be set in such a way that they can be achieved in the market. The government therefore proposes that the agricultural agreement be adapted to its target prices in order to provide a basis for national market balance and to help maintain the conditions of competition for the food industry when the EU implements Agenda 2000. I want to add that the government believes that the reduction in the target prices must be followed up with compensation. The government will follow the price development of food and with the means available to public authorities, helping consumers to benefit from the reductions. I want to say that increasing domestic consumption is some of us who shouldn't be involved, because it's not pathetic, I think we're a more meat than we do! But when a drift into Sweden, a brilliant opportunity will be to support the Government's proposal for reduced food tax when it comes later this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e903	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e909	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Last year the police received assistance from Kripos in only 17 out of 1 137 sexual assault cases. The vast majority of cases are dealt with locally, and often end up in detention. Has the Council considered setting up regional units to assist the police in resolving issues relating to sexual abuse of women and children, possibly providing police districts with the necessary top competence to conduct a proper investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e918	Sexual abuse against children poses specific challenges for the police and the prosecution authority. This includes, inter alia: referred to in the report ‘Sexual assault on women and children’ by Åse Texmo and Lisbeth Aarvik, which addresses issues of rape and child abuse by police and prosecution authorities. The report proposes to carry out an examination scheme with a regional unit for the investigation and prosecution of those crimes with a view to changing the organisation of the investigation of rape and other sexual offences. The Department is constantly working to improve the capacity of all stages of the criminal justice chain to deal with sexual assaults. In general, it is a specific priority to promote measures to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal matters, while maintaining a high percentage of information and the quality of criminal proceedings. A faster procedure makes it easier to resolve matters, because the evidence will be fresher. I have been working to identify where the bottlenecks are in the criminal chain, and to arrive at measures to shorten the time of proceedings. Rules have been introduced on the time limit for the implementation of judicial hearings and observations following the entry into force of the new rule on hearings on 1 November 1998. The Police College provides a basic introduction to the laws, receipt of notification, interrogation, traceability and medical examination, as well as the work of other departments in criminal matters. College of Police conducts its own follow-up training course in the investigation of sexual abuse. In the autumn of 1999, the offer was extended to include the investigation of rape and other moral crimes as well as sexual abuse against children. In addition, the Criminal Police Centre assists in training and empowerment in the field, in cooperation with the Police College. I would also like to address issues relating to sexualised violence at the annual police director's meeting in spring to raise awareness of this issue throughout the police system. Because there may hardly be any doubt that we need to get better, but the question is, what is the practical way we're going to be? I would also like to point out that the Advocate General has set up an internal working group to investigate the handling of rape cases by the police and the prosecution authority. The group shall include, inter alia: examine the link between the high number of cases committed and the quality of the investigation and the prosecution. This report is planned to be presented in the spring of 2000. Before it is finished, I don't think it's right to conclude with which steps to take further to improve the treatment of sexual assaults in the criminal chain. But I agree with what I see as the purpose of the representative's questions, that it is necessary to implement steps that are different and better than the case today. I find the issues of sexual abuse very serious and it seems important to find practical solutions. I have not come to the conclusion that I now have the best basis for doing so, but the representative can expect me to follow it closely and will come back to the matter, and also in an appropriate way to inform the Storting about this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e935	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his positive approach to the serious problem of sexual assault. I also feel sure, and would like the Council of State to confirm it, that if the working group he referred to found out that there is a connection between the high number of cases committed and the quality of the investigation and the prosecution work, he would also be open to look at the proposals contained in my first question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e942	I perceive the work carried out by Texmo and Aarvik, in that way they say they are responsible for a qualified vision. But that view is important in that it is based on taking the subject seriously. I can inform you that when the lawyer assessed this question, he concluded in his time that this report could not be used to say enough about quality and improvement potential. This does not mean, however, that the work of the National Attorney cannot reach a conclusion on what is best to do. So I'm open to what it's going to be, because I'm focused on that we have to do more and better work than we do now. I can also say that there has been the joyous fact that officials and women who have completed the secondary school of police higher education in sexual abuse have found it appropriate to form the Police Forum against sexual assault. Networks are then created to ensure that the competence is maintained. I can also repeat from this pulpit that the Government will propose the criminalisation of gross negligence in the case of rape in connection with the announced sexual offence case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e954	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘MOT is a non-profit foundation aimed at reducing bullying, violence and drug abuse among young people. Several well-known Norwegian sports stars are active in the organisation, which visited 25 000 high school students in 1999. In a circular to the country's police chiefs, the Ministry of Justice asks the policemen not to use the services of the MOT. What view does the Council of State have of further support for the MOT and active use of MOT in police prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e963	MOT is a foundation that wants to help create a good growth environment and secure individuals by focusing on care, recognition and clarity in its activities. Target groups for the work of the MOT are young people, parents, teachers and youth leaders. MOT emphasises the use of top athletes as role models. The message is conveyed through school visits, lectures, events, profiling and communication activities. In my opinion, the organisation MOT is carrying out good prevention work in the drugs sector in line with what a number of other non-governmental organisations are doing. Overall, this effort constitutes a major and valuable contribution to the fight against drug abuse in Norway. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is responsible for combating drug abuse in Norway, including grants to non-governmental organisations. The Ministry of Justice does not see it as its primary task to provide support to MOT or other voluntary drug-prevention organisations. However, the Ministry has previously supported the MOT, but has now rejected the application for aid for 2000 and five years in the future — this in the light that the Ministry has wanted to wait until the results of the organisation are seen. In a letter to the police districts on 16 November 1999, the Ministry of Justice reached the following conclusion: ‘The Ministry will, on the basis of the above, ask the police officers to continue to give priority to the police’s school sentence in the field of police work at school, while, at a time when scarce resources are available, they should not undertake tasks that are incompatible with central and local priorities.’ The letter to the police districts says something about how police officers are asked to take priority, and what tasks should be done before any use is made of the MOT's offer. If the police district chooses to leave officials as MOT informers, this work may be so extensive and resource-intensive that it needs to be carefully weighed against other tasks. So the current letter to which the representative Simonsen refers is about priorities, not the exclusion of the MOT. As Minister of Justice, it is my responsibility to ensure that the central, priority tasks are solved before carrying out other tasks, even though those tasks may be both positive and highly relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e977	First of all, I note that the Minister of Justice takes a positive view of the work done by the MOT. It is well possible that work to combat drug abuse is primarily a task for the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, but MOT is also working to prevent bullying and violence, and is doing an important job to prevent crime. The Foundation should therefore also be of interest to the Ministry of Justice. I am of the opinion that it is important to strengthen the police and have proposed significant increases in the police budget, but I also think that some crumbs can be used for pure prevention, although these are measures that work in a way that is difficult to analyse directly the results of. I would ask the Ministry in the future to take a positive look at the work of the MOT and also to respond positively to applications for public support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e984	The representative and I share the perception of the importance of the work. But I also see that when the Ministry of Justice in recent years has prioritised preventive action against young people in the risk zone, this has led to a more focused general education of the police, and it has to be a part of and an important element of the school's own prevention activities. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, we now assume that it may be more natural for the MOT to use teachers as informers and not police officers. Using the police as teachers can seem an unnecessary detour to teach well about drug prevention. I have not sent out a circular to say that you should not use local discretion on this, but if you are in doubt, and if you feel that the good intention is pushing you in your priorities, I have given support to local police officers who choose to use the perm that has been developed. That's at this intersection of my first answer, and that's how I repeat it in my supplementary answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e992	‘For information, Norway is the only country in Europe with a system under which asylum seekers have a legal right to a free lawyer. Today, the Norwegian taxpayer costs about 30 million. kronor per year. Many of the asylum lawyers have struggled to get as many asylum seekers as possible as clients because there is a particularly good store, which is funded by its citizens. Does the Council of State wish to take any initiative in the conversion of this policy and at the same time assess the pay payments to lawyers specialising in asylum seekers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e999	Most countries it is natural to compare us with have free legal aid schemes for asylum seekers. Although such schemes are designed in different ways in different countries, it must be because of a misunderstanding to believe that Norway is the only country in Europe that has such a system. Most asylum seekers who come to the country are unmiddled and also have varying knowledge of the procedural rules and procedures applicable to the handling of their case. The free legal aid system is therefore important to ensure the legal certainty of asylum seekers, and I have no plans to deprive asylum seekers of it as such. However, I would like to stress that I am concerned with ensuring that the legal security arrangements we have are working as best as possible and without undue use of resources. Although legal certainty is important, we need to keep critical of how much legal certainty we get out of each crown we set aside for such schemes. During the year, two reforms are to be implemented, both of which aim to strengthen the legal certainty of asylum seekers. One concerns the transfer of asylum inquiries from the police to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs. The aim of this reform is both to strengthen the legal certainty of asylum seekers and to contribute to shorter processing times in asylum matters. The second concerns the establishment of a complaint subject for asylum and other foreign affairs. At the same time as these reforms are to be implemented, I find it natural that a critical review of other legal certainty mechanisms is being carried out. I am aware that the Foreign Affairs Directorate assesses certain changes to the system of free legal assistance for asylum seekers. The same applies to the Ministry of Justice. In addition, a general review of the free legal aid arrangements is carried out. However, I do not think it appropriate now to comment on any amendments until the matter has been settled in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1010	I thank you for your answer. I took note that the Council of State will look at certain changes in legal aid for asylum seekers. But when it comes to the direct question I had, he will not remove the free legal aid system for asylum seekers, it will still be statutory. It is high time to put the spotlight on ethics among parts of the asylum lawyers, who have struggled with all the methods of having as many asylum seekers as possible as clients, and who have for a long time spared themselves in the Norwegian state and the taxpayers. The evening post has documented that an asylum lawyer has had 850 clients in one year, i.e. a huge work capacity. Is it so to understand that the Council of State will now actively fight against the greed culture of the asylum lawyers and prevent the continuation of unethical practices?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1017	The representative and I agree that, on a general basis, we should expect high ethics from all professionals, and for that reason both government councils and politicians. It is also the case, as it is in the first question of the representative, that I have taken the initiative. I have a dialogue with the law firm to see how the law enforcement system works now, and to see how it will keep a necessary standard in all cases. It's my impression that it does, but are there examples that it doesn't, we're earned to review it. It is also clear from what I have said that on an open basis we are assessing how the legal security system should be. However, I have not concluded. What I have stated is that asylum seekers need free legal assistance, but I am open to assessing the stage of the asylum process and the way in which this should best be carried out. When I stand firm on the principle of a legal asylum, it is in order to ensure this legal certainty for asylum seekers and not to cut off a debate on the best possible use of resources. And of course, something the law firm also agrees with, we're going to have a high ethical standard on everything going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1024	I thank the Council of State for the answer. At any rate, we agree on one thing that the ethics of the asylum lawyers should be looked at. It is also revealed that the asylum lawyers are not present during the asylum interview, only before the interview starts. It has even been revealed by a national newspaper that lawyers were paid salaries for work they have never done. In a report by the Ministry of Justice, the conclusion is that the list of payments to the asylum lawyers is far too poor. In addition, the statesmen have felt powerless about evolution. In my view, it is time to abolish the statutory right to free legal assistance for asylum seekers, so that we have a system that harmonizes with European countries, which do not have such arrangements. In this area, the Council of State and I disagree. But as the last question to the Council of State: What concrete changes can the Council of State make to improve control of the pay and pay requirements of asylum lawyers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1033	I'm not going to comment on all the references to the media, but just say that on the basis of a look-up to the summer that you could be concerned that there was a widespread situation with the payment of double salaries, we did a cross-check of 3,800 cases and found a small number of cases – I think it was five – where this had happened. So of that study you can't draw any conclusion that this is going on. Nevertheless, it has been an independent point for me to have a good and critical dialogue with the Law Association on these issues. It's not finished, but it will be. That's why it's also how I, although I want to stick to the principle of free legal aid for asylum seekers, will also look at what are the best arrangements, and I said in my first answer that it will come back to when they're reviewed. It's not completed per. Today, but I am working on the questions because I have two things to do: there should be legal certainty, but there should also be a good use of resources so that the help is actually effective for those involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1043	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘Just-Buss, Legal Advice for Women and Other Judicial Aids carry out important work to meet a legal need. [[North Norway and Bergen]] The students work on average for three semesters and get a modest monthly salary. In addition, because of their modest salary, they have to finance the work on loans, which means that they have nothing to do with the State Loan Fund for the rule of education in the event of delays in the study. Will the Council of State open up the possibility for these students to receive an additional benefit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1052	I agree with Rolf Reikvam that the students who work in the legal aid are doing important work. They have also taken up the question of changing the study funding in a letter to the ministry, and there has been a meeting with representatives of the students in the department now before Christmas where they did the right thing to the problem of financing life support during the engagement in legal aid measures. It is a funding agency through Lånekassa that one studies in at least half an hour. If you are in full employment, you normally do not have the right to receive support from the Loan Box. In my opinion, it is an important principle that it should be supported by the student from Lånekassa to study and not to finance other activities, even if they are important and socially useful. This means that to the extent that the legal aid measures are included as part of the law study, the students may be entitled to support from the Loan Fund for this part. For work that goes beyond this, participants must be compensated for from other sources. In the pre-Christmas meeting, students were advised to continue working on the question of funding under involvement in legal aid. In this context, I would also point out that the selection that has assessed the funding for education through the Lånekassa, the Aamodt selection, in its attitude, emphasises a greater degree of pure cultivation of the main purpose of the education funding scheme. The result is that I can't promise to open up an additional grant year in the Loan Box for these students.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1066	I thank you for your answer. It wasn't very uplifting for the few that really apply. It is a small group of students who make a great effort to ensure that free legal assistance is effective. Most of these students are able to complete the studies within the normal study period. But then there can be situations, a few probably -- there can't be many students per. years are about, I'll assume under five – where there may be problems, because the work itself is so demanding that they don't get to work properly enough with the studies. Then I think the system should be so flexible that we had room for the few who came into the situation that, for example, they could use a year extra to complete the studies, even for this last year can get support from the Loan Fund. I will challenge the Council of State once again on this. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1071	It's the President's fault, he hit a button that gave the gentleman more time than he should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1074	I thought the president was nice to me!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1079	The President may try to be, but in such a context, the President asks you to terminate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1082	I'll try, I won't use my 41 seconds, but I'll try to finish. I just want to ask the council again if he does not, because this applies to a few and that there is no case in principle, will reconsider this, so that those who need it can have the opportunity to get an extra benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1089	There are situations where it seems reasonable to meet what is being called in individual cases, and this is a case in point. But what I want to make the representative Rolf Requam aware of is the problem of each one setting the limit if one starts to say that some societal purposes are of such a nature that one should grant an additional year. There may be work in Amnesty, there may be work in different types of church sounds, there may be work in environmental organisations where a user spends a lot of time towards some kind of expenditure coverage. There are a lot of cases of societal effort that you could say should actually give such a result. So because of the consequences, I'm probably not going to meet the representative of Rikvam in this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1094	The President is told that the speaking time allocated to individual representatives is unfortunately not given in full to state councils. Sir. Rikvam. And speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1100	I've seen that, I realized that, too. But it was probably the President's fault instead – just so it's clarified once more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1105	This is going to be subtracted in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1108	I agree with the Council of State that there may be problems with where to set the limit. Students do a lot of important work that can lead to an extension of the study period. But here we have a concrete case, and these students go into a free legal aid system that is totally dependent on them. If these students do not do this work, it will certainly not work. And then the question of this legal aid system is so important to society that we deal with this matter in isolation and say that this is a fundamentally important matter and therefore we are willing to give these students this extra year that they might need. That's what I think the Council of State should take as a challenge – and then clean up this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1113	When these students have made contact, they note that it is not necessarily just this scheme that they are busy with; there is also a solution that can be found on the back side of the legal aid scheme. Here there is an assessment going on among colleagues. I'm not going to conclude when it comes to what's going to happen there. Since we are now sending out the Aamodt selection setting and coming back to Stortinget with a follow-up here, I will meet the representative of Reikam so much as to say that this issue should also be included in those assessments – and then I took a small step in the direction of the representative of Reikam.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1123	I would like to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions: «In a paper published in the Evening Post on 28 November 1999, reference is made to a textbook used by a private school in Bergen. The school operates according to the so-called ACE pedagogy. The school is approved with State grants. The Equality Ombudsman states that the content of the book is contrary to the Equality Act. The textbook is an important part of a school’s pedagogical structure and must form the basis for its approval. Will the Council of State withdraw approval as long as a book is used that is contrary to Norwegian law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1132	The ball that's here, it's using the pedagogical structure of ACE. The schools that use this scheme are not accepted by the department as professional educational alternatives, but as religious alternatives to the public school after private schools § 3 (a). They have a special curriculum in Christian knowledge with religious and life - oriented orientation. The ACE balls shall otherwise follow the curricula for public schools, with some adaptations in the subjects of Norwegian, natural and environmental sciences, social sciences, physical practice and music. The balls can use ACE teaching material as far as it is appropriate to the approved curricula. This follows from private spherenova § 4. The Ministry suggests that no recognition is required for textbooks used in private schools. In connection with the signature of the private sector in 1985, the Department deals with the issue of the recognition of teaching material in Ot.prp. No 58 for 1983-84, page 21. The Ministry did not propose the approval of textbooks in the new private sector, but suggested that the vocational plans should be followed to a reasonable extent. The ministry here gave decisive attention to the importance of the free position of the schools, and that this should also allow the free choice of teaching material. I'm referring to what's stated in Innst. O. No 53 for 1984-85, page 7, entitled: ‘In all cases, private schools shall be operated by plans approved by the Ministry and the majority shall find that this requirement is sufficient to ensure a common standard of education. In addition to this, the majority believe that the consideration of the schools' freedom implies that they should remain free when it comes to the choice of learning material.The majority sees it as a premise that the teaching material remains within the framework of the Norwegian law, and would draw particular attention to the legal rules on discrimination and equality. However, the majority, as the Ministry, maintained a reasonable level of supervision of the professional plans.’ When approving private schools entitled to state grants, the Ministry assumes that the equality law § 7 debt. The freedom to use own educational material is clarified to the ACE schools in the letters of approval from the Department. These decisions also specify that in the field of equality, training should be in accordance with the curriculum and equality law, and that this should be taken into account in the choice of material and working methods. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the State Education Office supervises the private bullets between these ACE bullets. Training offices shall ensure that the law and other conditions are followed up by the schools. I have not yet received any messages from the supervisory bodies that require an assessment of the approval of any of the ACE spheres.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1158	I thank you for your answer. I feel that it got the character of a little disclaimer, and it surprises me. We have a gender equality agency that according to the Evening Post – I deal with the Evening Post and assume that what is there is correct – is clear as to the fact that this textbook is in violation of the law. It is the statement that has come from the Equality Ombudsman, and he is set to manage this law. And here we have a book that is used as a textbook – I assume that the Equality Ombudsman is correctly quoted and that she has assessed this – and which is obviously contrary to Norwegian law. I think that the Council of State has to go into and take a position on this, and do not care that he has not received any enquiries from the education director in Hordaland; he has to deal with what has come up, namely that this book is contrary to Norwegian law. One then has two possibilities, as I see it: one can either demand that one not use the textbook or say that as long as the school uses it, that school cannot receive state support. Because it must be a minimum requirement for these private schools to comply with Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1165	There has been a desire from the Equality Agency that there should be the same type of approval scheme for books and educational material in private schools as in public schools. The size was clear from when the laws were passed, that it should not be. It's given some examples. The body of supervisors must ensure that what is said in the letter of formal notice is followed even when this is the case with equality. What the department has done, and what we've done in Stortinget before, is that we've been systematizing and intensifying the supervisory work in relation to these schools. In this way, the representative of Rikvam will be busy, will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1172	I accept that these schools should be able to use textbooks that are not initially approved in the same way as textbooks used in public schools. I accept that. But if it turns out in retrospect that a private school as part of its educational material uses textbooks that clearly contradict Norwegian law, we cannot accept it, regardless of whether we have created a system that does not initially require approval. If we later learn that these schools use textbooks that are contrary to Norwegian law, we cannot accept it. I consider it quite certain that this assembly – which is not very large right now – means that we cannot accept this. I hope that the Council of State also agrees with this. And if it turns out that it's correct what the Evening Post has said, that the Equality Ombudsman believes this and says this, I assume that the Council of State will intervene with a view to stopping this textbook, possibly withdrawing the state grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1179	The Council of State is in dialogue with the Equality Ombudsman on these issues. It is clear that I am not dealing with single books – or, for that matter, schooling – from the Stockholm Hall of Speech. Furthermore, it is clear that in the teaching process of a school it will be quite obvious to use both journals, books and newspapers that have attitudes and meanings that go across what is Norwegian law. It must be allowed to do. But if it were to be authoritative, that it was what was in a way the line of instruction, I am of course in agreement with the representative of Reikvam that it cannot be accepted. So I'm pretty sure we have a system of supervision here, and we're going to do that in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1189	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The state of Hedmark has received an extra cost of approx. Three million. crowns as a result of the new state regulations for school kisses for high school students. What does the Council of State think of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1198	Elevar in the continuing school has for many years been legally entitled to free school pillows when they live at a certain distance from school. In 1994, the Stortinget adopted a clarification that, if the county does not provide a free shot, students should have full skyscrapers. At the time, these rules were in the welfare law. The background to the law change was a judgment from Eidsivating Lawyers' Law that stated that the practice of some county councils in demanding property by shower was contrary to the law. The majority of the population suggested that the cost of scholastic showering for the elephants in the secondary school should also be covered by the individual county council within the established framework. At the time of the lifting of welfare laws, the Stortinget decided in 1998 that the law on free showers and full skyscrapers should be incorporated into the new training law. Although the training law, which applied on 1 August 1999, was a new law, the rules on shooting were not new, but only a continuation of the rules we had had for several years. Because the county authorities themselves interpret the rule of law on full skyscrapers so differently, and one thus received an ongoing debate on what their obligations were, the central government asked the local government to clarify the rules in regulations. After a wide audience, a new regulation came into force on 12 August 1999. The regulation is a clarification within the law of free skyscraper or full skyscraper when students stay more than 6 km from school. On this basis, the new regulation would not entail additional costs for county municipalities. The rate to be used by the county authorities for the purpose of making use of forest resources is, in the Regulation, equal to the rate fixed in 1997 for the purpose of covering travel expenses for research and treatment in the context of public security. I would like to remind you that this rate only applies when a county does not itself well handle the transport. Thus, students cannot be required to obtain proof of free shooting. I'm aware that the county councils before the regulation came into force gave different skyscrapers. Some of the county councils gave skyscrapers on the basis of an estimated fare for those sections where there is no public transport. This did not fully cover the cost of your own sketch. Others gave skyscrapers at higher rates. In my opinion, then, the regulation should not increase the costs of county councils in relation to the law. If Hedmark County now believes that they have increased the cost of student kiss due to the new regulations, it may be that Hedmark in time before we received the new regulation has not adhered to the rule of law on full skyscrapers for the elephants in the continuing school. This means that students in Hedmark have received a better offer than before, an offer that now corresponds to one in other county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1211	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but must say that it really does not correspond very well to the real life in Hedmark. The county council is obliged by the Training Act to provide skyshine. If students cannot drive themselves or have parents or supervisors who can drive, the county council is obliged to provide taxis or other noise. Hedmark gave the former students cloud compensation corresponding to the monthly ticket rate on the bus, it amounted to approx. 80-90 cents per cent. km. Today, expenditure has increased from 80-90 cents to 1.55 cents per cent. km with its own desiccant and from 80-90 ear to 6 kr per. km for taxi. At best, the increased costs of this scheme will be 3 million. kr, in the worst case, Hedmark County may incur an additional cost of 20 million. kr. I believe that this is the responsibility of the Council of State. Will he take that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1218	First, I would like to make it clear that it is the central government of the municipalities that has asked for this regulation, because it was different interpretation of the law and some legal cases resulted in the county being given dramaticly high expenditures in some places in the country. That was the basis for them asking us to make a prescription. In the case of Hedmark County Council, the representative must base the claim of the Fallet on a misunderstanding, because it is not such that we change anything at any time where the county council itself makes noise by its own means of transport, bus and so on. These are the cases in which the occupants are responsible for the cloud, which is where one has received the corresponding tariff, for example. popular benefits. I'm not going to say that in this case it can't turn out in such a way that there could be an increase in expenses, as I don't know what cost you've had before, but the understanding that the representative had fallen off the relationship must be based on a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1225	Hamar Arbeiderblad can today reveal that some students actually get between 70 000 and 100 000 kroner a year in grants to drive a car to and from school, and others use taxis for 6 kroner. per 1 % km when they do not have their own car and the county has no regular bus service. It is worrying that the state has now changed the school kiss rules so that the county council carries out large financial counts without following money from the state. This change in regulation will result in an increase in costs that would have to go beyond the normal bus offer in the county. When Hedmark County can now prove that the county is under financial pressure – because they can – I will ask the Council of State to reconsider the consequences of the regulation and to ensure that Hedmark County Council gets a conversation where you can document this and present it to the Council of State, so that it can be cleared up in any misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1230	The last can, of course, be met. We always like to talk to see if there are any misunderstandings. However, I repeat that the reason for this regulation came, one by one, was that the central association of the municipalities asked for clearer clarifications in order to avoid the misdemeanor that some county councils had come in relation to the legal cases they had been up to, according to their interpretation of the law. We followed up on what was requested by the Communes' Central Association, and we have done so by setting tariffs equal to the rates at the people's level. It may seem different between municipalities, but as I started with: we are obviously open to having a conversation with Hedmark in relation to the practice and consequences of this regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1235	The President notes that the Council of State prefers many small conversations rather than the big conversation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1241	I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State Lilletun, whom I believe is directed to him in this context: ‘Norway is the only country in Europe without a fully developed weather radar network. Weather radar provides greater safety for shipping, aircraft, oil installations and road traffic. Norway's only radar operating is in Asker. Sweden has 11 radars, Finland 6 and Denmark 4. There is no coverage from Lindesnes to the Churchnes. What will the Council of State do for safety at sea and on the mainland in relation to the weather radar plan requested by the Stortinget in 1995 and drawn up and completed by the Norwegian Meteorological Institute in April 1997?’ [[DNMI]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1250	I agree with Mr Stag that this is an important matter. Norway is a country with a lot of weather, so we need a weather forecast that adapts to the climatic conditions we have to contend with at any time. There is no doubt that weather radar is a good tool in the weather forecast, and I would of course wish we had come further in the development. But we have come further than the representative Stang claims. In the fall, the Meteorological Institute completed the construction of a new weather radar in the municipality of Gågebostad in West Agder. The radar is now in test mode and will be officially open for spring. Then we will have two weather radars, which together cover the coast and inland areas of South Norway. The Meteorological Institute is now setting up plans for a third weather radar. I will let the institution itself assess each weather radar should be placed, but the department has given the institution the opportunity to transfer an amount of 3.3 million. NOK 2000 and use these funds to develop weather radar. If it's closed to co-financing with other institutions, we'll have enough resources to start building up the third weather radar. Of course, we need to look at this further development in the context of the annual budgets. We're talking here about a big and long-term investment, but I'm sure society will eventually be on a fully developed weather radar network. I can promise that I will work to ensure that it is possible to achieve further development. But then we're dependent on the institutions that use the weather radar network being included on the funding page.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1266	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I can only see one thing, namely that the Council of State has underlined the desire to continue in this matter. It is such that radar investment has been consistently ironed out by the State budget. According to the Norwegian Meteorological Institute, we need nine weather radar stations to cover the entire country. That it's going to be equal to the number in Sweden. However, the investment needs are approx. Ten million. kr per. radar and operating costs are 1 million. kr annually. That means a total investment need of 90 million. kr annually and operating costs for 11 weather radar stations of 11 mill. kr per. years. It is important in the interests of safety both at sea and on the mainland that it be installed as quickly as possible. Will the Council of State, which is the Council of State in one of the richest countries of the world, ensure that these appropriations become a reality in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1275	I find that the representative Stang is of course quite right when he points out that I am delighted to be the Council of State in an excellent government in one of the world's richest countries. But I must say that I have not noticed that the representative Stang or his party has been preoccupied with strengthening the budget for these posts. The things we are discussing today have clearly been put forward in our propositions, and when last year we had to cut down on the total budget by NOK 8-9 billion, it is clear that there were also consequences for the progress in this matter. But we were still able to build a weather radar, which, in addition to what we had before, covers South Norway, and it will probably be another one in the next year. It didn't seem to me to be holding. It's going slow -- maybe a little too slow, but we're going in a real bad way. Then I look forward to the fact that the representative Stang and his party will now really be in charge of the exact research budget – and the part of the research budget that this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1284	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I just want to stress that we are on – that is why we are dealing with this issue today. The network is well developed in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and most of Europe, and I want to return to being one of the richest countries in the world and have the coastline we have. But it's not just me saying this. There are also others, the specialist, who say that we're looking at as a sink in this area. Our neighbouring countries are largely fully covered in weather radar, but not Norway. All types of communication are often very weather-dependent, and improved short-term alerts can be crucial in many cases. The Meteorological Institute tries to solve the lack of public funding by finding other partners. The radar for the East has emerged because there have been several other possible sources of funding; it has been possible to obtain the largest contributions from others and not from the public. It is hoped that the Council of State will not be able to accept these conditions in the future, so that further action will be consistent with the 1996 Committee's comments on the importance of weather radar.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1293	I fully share Mr. Stang's assessment of the importance of this with our coast and our location. When it comes to funding, I have to say that it's probably not so unusual, but on the contrary very common, that the funding also in the other countries we can compare with has been a splinter between a lot of people who are interested in getting such radars in place. When it comes to anyone who has contributed to these radars, it's probably pretty much the public thing. There are different etats within different departments, but also some private ones. That's what I hope we're still going to get. What has been done from our side to follow this up and make sure that the plan has been completed, I have also informed about it, but I said why the funding has not come in time. I see that equally committed contributions will come from the representative Stang and his party also in the budget debate in relation to the research budget in general and this matter in particular. Then I look forward to the new year!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1308	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Why already in this year’s transport budget is set at 30 million. crowns for the disputed E6 project through Steinkjer for the redemption of dwellings, when objections have been raised by the Railway Agency and the complaint from 21 residents have not been resolved, and why is such urgency when we know that the project will be included in the national transport plan 2002-2011, which has not been completed and is out of consultation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1315	In St.meld. No 37 for 1996-97, Norwegian Road Roadmap 1998-2007, the start-up of the project Ev 6 Jevika-Selli, which constitutes E6 through Steinkjer, is foreseen for the period 1998-2001, with completion for the period 2002-2007. New E6 through Steinkjer is part of a planning process that has been in progress for several years. In order to achieve a good foundational process, St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 from funding in 2000 for land use and further design for plant start-up in 2002. The Storting has given its support to this. For the project a new E6 Jevika-Selli municipal sub-plan was adopted in 1996. The section is divided into four control plans, three of which have Steinkjer Municipal Council autonomously approved. For the fourth regulatory plan, Løsberga-Sneppen Bruges, the Railway Agency has raised objections to the municipality's regulatory decision regarding the solution to their activity. The inclusion of the objection will only result in minor changes for new E6. On the basis of this, a purchase contract was concluded in 1998 with 20 owner(s) concerned and two owner(s) concerned on a sub-partial basis. The purchase contracts provided for the payment to these 22 landowners in January 2000, subject to approved regulatory plans and appropriations for the project. There has therefore been a strong desire to comply with agreements concluded with the owners of the land concerned so that they can recover without undue delay and uncertainty. The Governing Council’s regulatory decision on the sub-parliamentary matter was appealed to the county council by 21 residents, representing seven or eight of the properties concerned in total. The complaint was rejected, and the case was sent to the Civil Ombudsman by the residents with questions about the county's stability. A clarification of this matter was expected during January 2000. The decisions of the Municipal Council for the other two regulatory plans have been appealed to the County Council. The Directorate of Roads informs us that these complaints have been dismissed pending the clarification of the question of viability. I have been informed that the Swedish Road Administration will make the payments to the landowners regardless of the fact that the issue of instability is still being dealt with by the Civil Ombudsman. This is justified by the fact that the issue of the adopted regulatory plan was closed in the context of the State's handling of the complaint and that only the issue of instability is addressed by the Civil Ombudsman. I take note of the conclusion from the history of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1330	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The starting point for my question is that in several areas I find the urgency to which it has been added in this project, something strange. One is that these 30 million. kr shall not be used for road construction, but solely for the unnecessary demolition of a large number of dwellings, and the plan of progress does not require the start of construction until 2008. I repeat: what is the point of this haste to have these dwellings demolished before the complaints from the 21 residents have been resolved? Why such urgency with the redemption of people's dwellings in this area when there are trajectory alternatives that exclude the demolition of dwellings and when there is enough time to make reasonable transport plan assessments? And what is it that means that one in Steinkjer, perhaps as the only place in the world, finds it right and important to put a European road through the center areas and residential areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1339	As I underlined in my first answer, the matter has a long history. I have to deal with the plans and approvals that are already in place, and given that this matter was to be included in the budget for the period 1998-2001, be willing to propose priorities when the professional authorities are able to carry out the tasks assigned to them. I underlined in my first response that we are dealing with an agreement with the house owners in the area where the release in January 2000 was subject to approval and necessary appropriations. The road authorities consider that it is the necessary start-up of the plant that is now being done, and have prioritised an implementation step in line with what I explained in my first response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1346	I understand that the Council of State is very concerned with local democracy, and he will, of course, be honored for that. But I also want to show that there has been a signing campaign in Steinkjer there over 80 pst. by those who are entitled to vote in the municipality have gone against the trasé elections that have been made here, so here it is in a way a collision with local democracy. I used to have a question to the previous Minister of Transport, and it was black from the Minister of Transport at the time: ‘I also take it for granted that it is well known that the main weight of the money planned for the E6 axis will be used for the next road planning period, i.e. after 2002.’ Yesterday, in Trønder-Avisa, there was an article showing that a concrete tunnel is to be built already in 2002 and 2003 through the Eggland and Bridges and downfall at the Egg Pool towards Selli. Is there any way to advance the project, and is there now additional funding for speeding up the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1358	The budgets for 2002 and 2003 are far from over. It means, in other words, that the quotations and references now made are likely to refer to the national transport plan and the provisional proposals of the agencies, which will be presented to the Storting at the end of March. I assume that this is the basis for quoting this progress plan. So I can confirm, as I did in my first answer, that the main gravity of the expansion will only come after 2002. I am also a strong supporter of local democracy, I have registered the process that has taken place in the Steinkjer area, and of course as a politician I can have opinions about both the matter and the content. It does not belong to my role as Minister of Transport to have it. Right here I am dealing with an approved planning process and with the decisions made in the paragraphs that are to be taken, and from that I have had to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1375	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1381	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘Women in the Mosse district have become drug addicts to the so-called ‘Eastfold-coctail’, which is a diurnalosis consisting of three valium, four paraalgin forte and a rohypnol. Some doctors are not expected to be sufficiently detained from prescribing addictive drugs. Will the Council of State take an initiative to improve control?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1390	Narcotic drugs have an important place in modern medical treatment, but can unfortunately both give rise to addiction and be misused as drugs. Drug and sedative consumption is lower in Norway than in many other western countries and has shown a downward trend in recent years. The sale of these medicinal products on a national basis indicates that 6,5 pst. average daily use of a sedative or a sleeping agent by the adult population. Although the supervisory authorities regularly treat examples of irreprehensible requisition and use of addictive medicinal products, Norwegian doctors are mainly in possession of proper remedies. However, I share the concern of the representative Hedstrøm about the consequences of the unwarranted requisition of addictive substances. Knowledge of the risks of the use and abuse of these medicinal products is the starting point for the legislation, control, supervision and guidance of prescription and use of addictive medicinal products by the authorities. The Norwegian authorities enforce, in international terms, strict control of the placing on the market and requisition of addictive medicinal products. In order to ensure the sound, rational and correct application and use of such medicinal products, the supervisory authority shall use different instruments in both control activities and guidance. If extensive requisition of the nature mentioned in the representative’s questions is detected, this will be assessed against the safety requirement of the medical law § 25 and could result in a reaction from the supervisory authorities. Depending on the scope, duration and possible previous charges, irreprehensible claims could result in loss of entitlement to claim addictive medicinal products or even withdrawal of authorisation. The supervisory authority’s tool for systematically detecting irresponsible requisition needs to be improved. An appropriate tool is national prescription-based pharmaceutical statistics. This will improve the ability of the supervisory authority to intervene at an early stage in relation to doctors who have an unfortunate prescription pattern. [[Statsraad Højbråten]] The Ministry is now working to establish national prescription-based pharmaceutical statistics in Norway. This statistics will allow you to obtain prescription information from all prescriptions. Better statistics on medicinal products may provide the supervisory authority with safe and good documentation as a tool to control and guide doctors. There is reason to believe that some drug addicts or addicts use so-called medical shopping to maintain their consumption. The possibility of such medical shopping will be reduced when the fixed medical system enters into force next year. At least as important as control is the ongoing work to ensure good quality in requisition. Both the Health and County Medical Services provide regular guidance and feedback on specific issues in this area. This will typically occur in supervisory and complaint cases where one doctor points to unfortunate aspects of his or her prescribing practices and asks for them to be changed, or in cases where one responds to a specific request from a doctor. For several years, Eastfold has been among the countries with the highest consumption compared to the population of both addictive drugs and other types of drugs. The county board in Eastfold has been very committed to this. In November 1999, the county doctor, in cooperation with the Eastfold Medical Association and the county drug services, organised a seminar on drug dependence in which all general practitioners in the county were invited. ==References== 30 of the state’s general practitioners participated. The working group which organised this seminar is now continuing its work on developing strategies and working methods that can help reduce the risk of drug dependence. I believe that this work will lead to, also in relation to the representative Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1420	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As he was also inside, Eastfold is a ‘pillar’, perhaps the most undisputed pill state in the country. The figures for 1998 show that the consumption of anaesthetic drugs was highest in all provinces, with 28.7 daily doses per year. 1000 inhabitants. Furthermore, Østfold is the highest in terms of painkillers and third place in terms of sleeping medications. Of course, you can not just put responsibility on the doctors for the seemingly clear over-consumption realised via the prescription pads, but the Council of State made it clear that there is work going on. He also agreed with me that although it was not a big problem compared to other countries, we have a problem, and it is perhaps a more extensive culture some places than others to use the prescription block. I do not have any additional questions at all, I got an answer in the main post now. But if the Council of State wants to make more concrete the work that is going on to prevent addictive drugs from being over-consumption, I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1429	Let me just briefly note that I believe that the representative Hedstrøm and the Minister for Health agree with the assessment of the situation. It's worrying that you see so high consumption figures in one of our counties. It's hardly just that people in Eastfold have more anxiety, pain and sleep problems than people in other states. This is probably also largely due to the practices that have developed. This is precisely why I attach great importance to the follow-up of the supervisory authority, as the County Council doctor in Eastfold actually does, and I trust that this will produce results in Eastfold counties. At the same time, I would like to work concretely with the improved control possibilities nationally, as I mentioned in my first response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1437	I would like to ask the Minister for Health: ‘What will the Council of State do with the fact that it is not really immediate help for sexually abused children and young people, and is it correct as it appears in the Evening Post on 4 January 2000, that the waiting time is 6-9 months and in Eastfold is up to several years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1444	The article in the Evening Post of 4 January 2000 is based on a claim that sexually abused children have to wait from six to nine months for professional psychiatric assistance and in Eastfold count for up to several years. This is unacceptable. There are no studies that can show how common it is with such a long waiting period as mentioned, but the Health Authority reports that children who show early symptoms are usually quickly received. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, via the State Health Inspectorate, has obtained a statement on the matter under discussion in the evening post. There is no evidence that the case in Østfold has been handled irresponsibly, or that the waiting time has been critical. On the contrary, it turns out that the family has been offered assistance on the same day the enquiry was received. According to the Health Authority, the Evening Post has edited several different issues and statements together, so that it may appear that the long waiting period was the case in Eastfold, which is not the case. However, on behalf of the Ministry of Health during February, a study will be carried out in all counties of the country in order to monitor the duration of child sexual assaults before being offered treatment. The Government's mental health escalation plan assumes that 5 pst. for children and adolescents under 18 years of age, there is a need for services from paediatric psychiatry. Today the coverage is approx. 2.1 pst. The main challenge is to be able to recruit and train sufficient personnel with the necessary professional skills and to ensure a geographical allocation of human resources as needed. In the general structure of the paediatric psychiatry we are now in the process of developing, the Government expects the supply of sexually abused children to be strengthened as well. In St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and fullness, and in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 describes the need for a further build-up and dissemination of competences in the treatment and response of sexually abused children. Our tool in this work has been the National Resource Centre for sexually abused children. The National Resource Centre was established as a project from 1995 to 1999 and has now been adopted for three years. The main objective of the Centre through the building of competences is to improve the provision of investigation, diagnosis, treatment and support to sexually abused children and their relatives. The offer to that group shall be made within the ordinary apparatus of the counties of a boron. On behalf of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the National Resource Centre is responsible for assisting the second-line service and regions in building up the necessary competences to treat children who have been sexually assaulted. Strengthening the provision of services for the paediatric population in this group is a comprehensive process. It is important that professional communities participate in multi-disciplinary and cross-disciplinary cooperation in the fields of child protection, police, child and youth psychiatry and paediatric medicine. Therefore, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health cooperates with the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Justice in this work. All three departments agree that there is a need for a special further investment for the benefit of sexually abused children.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1468	I thank you for your answer. It was good to hear how seriously the Council of State takes this, and how systematically and engaged it is. The mapping he referred to, I am also pleased to be done. I hope it will be done quickly, so that it will not be a training of the case, but will lead to more effective efforts in this area. I am also pleased that it may seem that the situation is not quite as critical as the Post-Aften can give the impression. But we are nevertheless many who are impatient for results in this area, and who get confused when we become acquainted with the fates of children and young people who are actually out there. In the psychiatry report, also referred to by the Council of State, which was treated three years ago, it is also said that it is important, however, that paediatric psychiatric services are available as necessary. It was referred to the escalation plan, and we have had additional appropriations from Stortinget. The exposure is good, but when can we expect results and improvements in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1477	I don't know if it's exactly by the protocol, but I would like to thank the representative for the additional comment, which clearly expresses an engagement that I share. I am among those who are impatient for results. I am also among those who are despaired when I meet with individual shippers who do not get the help they are entitled to. We will gradually see results. We have a stepping-up plan over eight years. It implies a recognition that the problem has not been solved overnight, but it also implies a commitment from the entire Stortinget to ensure that this service offer is extended year after year. I would like to contribute to this and contribute to a targeted effort. The mapping that I notified should not help delay the process, rather on the contrary. It should be ready during the end of the next month.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1484	It was an additional response that I also appreciated. I want to draw up a couple more items. Although monitoring has not taken place, we have seen examples of massive breaches of the waiting list guarantee, and I wonder if further work on this will have a special focus on the differences between the states. Sometimes it's just a matter of months. When we talk about immediate help, there is too much and a breach of the waiting list guarantee. In other places, there are very many months to talk about, for example. in Eastfold, as it may appear to be lower than other counties. Does the Council of State believe that it is acceptable that the State in which you live should determine the quality of health care you need? I also want to point out one thing that professionals have pointed out in this area, namely that it takes time, we have deficits on staff, etc., but if the help comes in as early as possible, less resources will be required. It requires fewer resources to get in early with the help and prevent suffering from coming in afterwards and repairing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1495	In terms of geographical differences, I can say more about it when the survey has been carried out and we actually know what the situation is in the individual counties and in the country as a whole. But in general, I can say that although the breaches of the waiting time guarantee have fallen dramatically in the last six months, there are still unacceptable differences between the counties, between hospitals and between services. This is part of the dialogue with the professional community. It is quite right that the representative, Mr Tömerås, points out that the earlier you get help, the less help you often need. And some of the idea with the entire psychiatry plan is that we need to strengthen the services in the municipalities, close to where people live, and close to where you first discover that you have a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1505	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Development and Human Rights: ‘The Norwegian State is the principal shareholder in Norsk Hydro ASA. In the Hydro Utkal project in the Indian state of Orissa, there is strong criticism of Hydro from several organisations. Among other things, the project is said to be an attack on the indigenous population in the area. What is the opinion of the State Council on the project, where appropriate, could this matter be included in the human rights and business pilot project described in the ‘Human World Centre’. Human Rights Action Plan’ (St.meld. [[1999 - 2000]] No 21
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1514	The government is concerned that Norwegian companies engaged in economic activities abroad act in accordance with the same basic ethical principles as at home. We have therefore taken the initiative to establish formalised contacts between businesses, trade unions, human rights organisations, research communities and authorities in order to strengthen the respect of human rights by industry in economic activities in other countries. To this end, the Government established two years ago the consultative body on human rights and Norwegian economic engagement abroad, the so-called Compact, where all these environments are represented. The COMPACT also works well. On the part of the Government, we have expressed concerns about several aspects of the Orissa project. I have taken this up myself with Hydro's Director-General and expressed the Government's expectation that Norwegian companies with state holdings show particular vigilance in relation to ethical challenges in their involvement with other countries. Hydro is well acquainted with our attitude. As is known, Stortinget has agreed that companies in which the State holds holdings shall operate under the same commercial conditions as other companies. Any investment decision in the project in Orissa will be a matter for the management of Hydro and, where appropriate, the business meeting. However, the government will continue to follow closely the development of the project in Orissa. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is currently visiting India, met yesterday with both Norsk Hydro and representatives of the indigenous population concerned. It became clear that the conflict must also be seen in the light of fundamental conflicts in Indian society. At the same time, the actors involved were prepared to work to find solutions to the problems, such as: protect the interests of the low caste and the casteless in the area. As mentioned in the questions raised by the representative of Langeland, the Government of the Human Rights Action Plan has proposed a pilot project for the further development of voluntary mechanisms for monitoring, reporting and verification of company respect for human rights. The project is anchored in the Institute for Human Rights. The Foundation, in cooperation with the Parties to the Compact, will be jointly responsible for the further concrete design of the project. The Government's intention is that the project will contribute to more robust monitoring and certification mechanisms for corporate behaviour in this area. In addition, it shall have advisory functions vis-à-vis business. Whether the pilot project will assess Norsk Hydro’s project in Orissa in particular when it is established, the actors concerned must decide on their own. In the short term, the discussion of the project in the Compact's main forum may be most topical, i.e. pending the creation of the project. This was e.g. the recent launch of the Shipowners’ Association’s discussion on the challenges of ship dismantling in South Asian countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1529	I thank you for your answer. I have previously addressed this matter with the Minister of Industry, and to the extent that he replied as much about it as the Minister of Human Rights, that one should follow the case, but not do so much more than that. That's what I really thought I was sorry, because I think the Minister of Human Rights had been inclined to act a little bit more blatantly in relation to the situation we're experiencing here. When the Minister of Human Rights says that a expectation is that the enterprise will behave in the same way abroad as it does here, a question has to be asked whether that is the case when, for example, a company is going to behave in the same way that it is doing here. may hear that the project is a violation of the civil and political human rights of the indigenous population. It has a direct impact on 5,000 people, and they are not given any particular consideration. It is used for selection, extortion and alcohol. Is this the same way to behave like this home?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1536	I think it's important to separate two things. One is the authority of instruction and the relationship with Norsk Hydro and decisions taken in that context, and the other is what you think about the project. There are two things, and they should be seen separately. In the case of an instructional authority vis-à-vis Hydro, the Minister of Human Rights, whether she should never be so powerful and never so bastant, cannot oversee what the Stortinget has put in place to guide Norsk Hydro's activities. The size has said quite clearly that business conditions must be governing, and they have set the premise for what kind of arrangements we are going to have between state-owned companies and companies with dominant state holdings and the Government. It's the Big Thing that's decided. The Government must deal with this, and the Minister of Human Rights must deal with it. As far as concerns about the project are concerned, it is clear that we have expressed concerns about Hydro in different contexts, and I have done so myself in relation to the Director-General of Norsk Hydro. That is why we follow the matter carefully. That's why I'm glad you're working on finding solutions. And that is why we are also open to the matter being discussed in the context of Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1545	I feel that the Minister of Human Rights is very much in agreement with the criticism that SV here is raising, but does not feel that the main shareholder, the state, can do anything, because the Storting has ordered her to stay silent. That's not how I perceive the Storting. If the Government of the Minister of Human Rights thinks that a project is very crazy in relation to the indigenous people, which is very clear here, among other things. The Ström Foundation notes that one has not yet seen the end of the spiral of power in relation to this project, it is clear that then the Minister of Human Rights will have to make sure that this comes out and becomes known. The size then has to decide whether they accept that the main shareholder – i.e. the state – will operate in such a way towards a population like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1552	I think that going into concrete business decisions in relation to Norwegian Hydro from Stortinget's side is actually a violation of the rules Stortinget himself has drawn up. To what is said that the Storting should keep silent: No, they can mean a lot. And I actually mean something about this project. I have also expressed that in internal meetings with Norsk Hydro. But I don't think there's any reason to draw any conclusions about the development of the project. I referred to the Foreign Minister's meetings with both parties in India this week. They will now work to find solutions to the problems. That would be the best thing, because there's never a solution either that you don't invest in countries like India. There is a need to find a solution to the problems that address the concerns of the people's representatives and the people concerned, as well as the concerns that we have expressed. It will then be up to the enterprise itself and up to any pilot project, depending on what the Storting decides to do to the seventh and last, whether it would be appropriate to involve this matter in the pilot project.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1562	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Today, diesel-powered cars are at least as environmentally friendly as electric cars,’ said Danish researcher Kaj Jørgensen at an environmental conference in Oslo on 29 November 1999. Does the Council share these claims, and in that case what positive consequences will this have for those who use this type of engine?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1571	I expect the representative Per Roar Bredvold to base his question on a statement in the newspaper on 30 November last year about the Danish researcher's statements. I have also seen this notice with interest. However, more detailed studies show that the researcher is not properly referenced. He does not claim that diesel cars are more environmentally friendly than electric cars. What the scientist said at the environmental conference was that with today's technology, diesel vehicles use energy better than today's electric cars. This is under Danish conditions, where the electric car uses electricity, comes from coal-fired power plants. When electricity is used by the electric car is produced from hydropower or wind power, the use of electric cars does not result in any polluting air emissions. In any case, the electric car does not have any polluting air emissions in use and will therefore not contribute to poor air quality in larger urban areas and agglomerations. It also noises significantly less than normal vehicles. There are therefore many good reasons to promote the use of electric cars in areas with local air pollution and noise problems. A number of measures are in place to encourage the use of electric cars, and the Government is now working to develop more measures. Diesel vehicles are – overall – not environmentally better than other types of vehicles. Diesel vehicles run, inter alia: to significant emissions of particulate matter. There is therefore no reason to change today’s policy positively in order to increase the use of diesel vehicles. The objective must be, among other things: the car diesel charge prices the costs of diesel fuel to society. A new charge on the sulphur content of auto diesel adopted in the State budget for 2000 will contribute to this. I am very busy getting more environmentally friendly transport and better urban air. The Government has set new national air quality targets. Emissions from car traffic need to be reduced in order to achieve these objectives. Purifying fuel and increasing the investment of electric cars are examples of some measures that will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1585	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State says that a number of measures are in place to encourage the use of electric cars, and that the Government is now working to develop more measures. Encouraging must not only be the imposition of extra high charges on vehicles other than those powered by electricity, when one knows that there is an ongoing trend in these areas as well as the presence of diesel vehicles which can consume up to 0,4 litres per day. miles. There are also family-run diesel cars with a consumption of approx. 0.5 liters per day. miles. Today's diesel vehicle also fights minimally compared to those one had only for a few years ago. And besides, with a lower consumption they also pollute minimally compared to what they did a few years ago. It must not be that one chooses from what is most expensive, but from what is cheapest for consumers. Today's car charges mean that you can't afford to buy a new electric car, but you have to use an older diesel car. Does the Council of State see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1594	Let me first point out that when I say that we have introduced a number of measures to promote the use of an electric car, it is not primarily by adding increased charges to other types of vehicles, but by giving special relief to electric cars, for example. in the case of charges, parking facilities, tolls and the type of instruments. Then I agree with the representative that one of the challenges we have is to make sure that the car tax system works in a way that allows people to afford to switch to more environmentally friendly car types. There are also things the government is working on when it looks at the tax and tax system, and it is concerned about getting it greener and more environmentally friendly in relation to the car park.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1601	I thank you once again for your answer. The Council of State refers to a new charge on the sulphur content of autodiesel adopted in the State budget for 2000. Can the State Council say anything about the new car diesel with a different sulphur content and when it will come out to all the country's consumers? We all agree that we are concerned about getting an environmentally friendly transport, but the consequences and costs should not be imposed entirely on consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1610	There is no doubt that fees work best where there are alternatives, and where we can encourage people to save money while saving the environment. There is a background for the introduction of a sulphur tax on car diesel. There is an alternative with lower sulphur content, and we see among other things. from the experience of the United Kingdom that, with a charge to increase the demand for the most environmentally friendly car diesel, the system is also being built up. But I agree with Mr Bredvold that one of the challenges that remains is to make this diesel available throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1620	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In 1999 week 46, alarming figures on the effects of particulate matter on human health were published. Steinkjer, in the Nord-Trøndelag, plans to build a new E6 across the city and a residential area. Can the Council of State, as the top level authority and environmental manager, be calm and ensure that new E6 is installed through Steinkjer, which will have large exceedances of, inter alia, particulate matter and marginal environmental improvements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1629	Susceptible particulate matter is an important and significant contaminant to road transport and concerns about its impact on public health are important. I assume that the representative Sandberg refers to a statement in the Newspaper in November. This is based on estimates related to the work on national air quality objectives, such as: suggests that the current strain on suspended particulate matter in Oslo could cause a significant health problem. Therefore, the Government has been actively working to get solutions to this problem. The government set new national targets for particulate matter in September 1998. The main means of achieving the objective, including: is presented in St. meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, the Government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state of the economy, are less use of heavy tyres, reduced emissions from refuelling and reduced exhaust emissions from internal combustion engines. In Steinkjer, working with a new E6 through the center has been going on for a long time. Just environmental problems from road traffic and the potential for upgrading the centre areas as housing and commercial areas have been important concerns in the process. The municipal sub-plan, which established the trajectory for E6 through the centre, was adopted in February 1996. The decision was contested, and the State Road Administration has therefore been asked by the Ministry of Transport to draw up impact assessments on four alternative lines. Some of the questions raised relate to road air pollution and dust, especially in residential areas that will be affected by tunnelling. Estimates have been made of future situations showing that, without any action, under very unfavourable conditions, some exceedances of national targets could occur. However, taking into account the expected growth of traffic, the reduction of peak tyre use and the technological development of car engines, this suggests that national targets will be met. As the top planning authority, the Ministry of the Environment has the right to intervene also in relation to adopted plans, but this only applies if the plan is contrary to national interests. Based on the information I have received on the matter, it does not appear to be relevant here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1640	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As has already been achieved, different figures on the effect of particulate matter on common health have been published. The suspended particulate matter is five times more dangerous than previously assumed. Only in Oslo were 430 traffic-sleep killed per. years. In the Steinkjer project, according to the measurements, there is a high level of particulate matter. I am aware that the Ministry of the Environment has decided on objections from the Railway Agency in other areas. It may also seem that there are outside interests that make the performance of this project take place in such a way that 30 million have already been allocated to the transport budget. kr for the redemption and demolition of a number of dwellings – which in itself should capture the interest of the Council of State, as this is unnecessary. Will the Minister for the Environment, in dealing with the objections raised by the Railway Agency, take the opportunity to put a foothold on larger parts of the project, so that people’s health and will are better protected, and that a different trajectory than that across a small town is chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1649	The representative is right that particulate matter now appears to be far more dangerous than what we previously assumed, and that is one of the reasons why the Government has chosen to set new, very ambitious targets on air quality. The representative also stated that there are several processes in the matter, and that one of them is an objection from the Railway Agency, which is on my table. So I cannot comment on it or deal with it from the pulpit of the Storting. What I can say, however, is that I attach great importance to achieving the national objectives of air quality, and I attach great importance to the fact that we are going to have the least possible problems with particulate matter and not least the health damage it can cause, so that in my decisions it will be essential to demonstrate that the choices you make will not conflict with the objectives of particulate matter and people's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1658	I thank you again for the answer. But I have to be allowed to say that I was a little disappointed, and I will almost say that there are some contradictions in what the Council of State has now said. Also on the previous question that the Council of State got, about the environment and diesel cars, the Council of State said that it was an overall aim to improve the environment for transport. In its first response to me, the Council of State said that reduced peak tyre use and areas around it should be given priority in order to bring down the particulate matter concentration. Then it's a little strange that the Council of State is going in a positive way to take a European road through a densely built strip and a city, when we know that in Steinkjer and in the area around there is a very large concentration of heavy transport, timber transport, etc. Removing peak tyres in Steinkjer and surrounding areas is not as easy as in the rest of the country. I have to say that I am a little disappointed, and I would like to ask the Council of State finally: is this the government's environmental work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1665	As the representative knows for sure, the government's environmental work is very broad and revolves around everything from cultural memories and pollution to taking care of biodiversity and also map data. At the same time, we are committed to integrating the environment into all kinds of decisions and considerations, and therefore it is also very important for us to have a transport pattern that is as environmentally friendly as possible, which does not interfere more with areas than necessary, and which, at the same time, at the least possible, causes negative impacts on people, for example. through particulate matter. I would like to stress that in this case it is not the government that chooses a trajectory. This is a choice you have made locally, even if it is controversial, and it is that we have a high threshold to review local decisions. If I am to do so, I must be able to point out that national interests are threatened, and so far there is no evidence to suggest it in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1675	This question, from Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1678	As the President says, the question was originally addressed to the Minister for the Environment, but the Minister of Labour and Administration would rather answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1683	She's constitutionally responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1690	‘According to the Evening Post on 6 January 2000, government leaders like to talk about the environment, but in practice little is done to make the business environmentally friendly. The study referred to claims that managers have limited understanding of the environmental challenge and their own responsibility for meeting it. What is the reason why the Government has not cleared its own house after so long in position, or what will the Council of State do to clean up this façade?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1697	I assume that the article in the Evening Post to which the representative Langeland refers is based on a study carried out under the own direction of PricewaterhouseCoopers. I do not know which offices are covered by the survey, as PricewaterhouseCoopers has promised the participants anonymity. However, I know that it only covers state agencies with more than 50 employees, but none of the departments. The government takes the environmental challenge seriously, which has also been clearly expressed on several occasions, at the latest in connection with the submission of St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000 on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The main objective is to stimulate all actors in society to change production and consumption patterns in a sustainable direction. This is also part of the background of the Government's commitment, among other things. in the case of electric cars, and I refer here to an article in the Evening Post on 7 January this year. It is therefore unreasonable, in my opinion, for the representative of Langeland to claim that the Government has not ‘cleaned its own house’. I would also like to point out that the environmental idea is so far from being new in the state. I still agree with PricewaterhouseCoopers when they claim that many public leaders still think maybe old-fashioned and defensive about environmental work. This is what the Government wants to do. Therefore, in the coming period, greater emphasis will be placed on efforts to bring about changes in attitudes towards the environmental challenges in the country, including through: å actively use the ‘Green State’ project as a breakpoint for a better understanding of the environment in all state activities, ensuring that environmental considerations are integrated as part of the strategic thinking of enterprises. Here all departments will be directly responsible for the follow-up of their own departments, ensuring that environmental considerations become an integral part of their procurement policies. My ministry is currently working on the design of a comprehensive procurement policy with a strong environmental profile in the country As is also evident from the article in the Evening Post, I have already mentioned the importance of the state acting as an environmentally demanding customer in a separate letter at the beginning of December to my colleagues in the Government. Let me reiterate that the Government is taking the environmental challenge seriously. The State should and should, in my view, be at the forefront in this area. This shall be achieved through awareness-raising and concrete activities such as the development and implementation of environmental action plans, the Green State project and a new overall procurement policy with an environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1728	I thank you for your answer. To this extent, there are certain offensive elements in the answer, but as I pointed out in my question, the government has been in position for a long time, and at this time it has done nothing about the grips in this area. Back in the day, there was something that was calling people into the carpet to say that now they're getting the jam to do their job. This is the question of whether a person has an intention to pursue his or her own policy — not least, as one pointed out in the answer, when it relates to procurement policy. There's also something you've been working on in local politics, among other things. I – have something to do with purchasing policy. It is relatively simple, and then the challenge for the Minister of Labour and Administration is that now something needs to be done concretely in relation to purchases, in relation to energy considerations, in relation to following up the point that this should be the first environmental regulation – and we lack a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1735	I agree with Mr Langeland that we need an offensive. We need concrete measures, and we need governments and governments to be offensive in order to get this done in the state in a good way. That was also the background to my letter to all the Councils at the beginning of December, where I say quite specifically that we should not and should not wait for the new law, we can already launch offensive environmental procurement. We'll buy over 100 billion kroner in the state next year, and I want the state to be a more focused environmental demanding customer. That is why I also asked in the letter that all the departments hereafter give priority to achieving integrated procurement and the environment. In addition to this, a number of concrete measures have actually been taken. I want to praise one of my own institutions, namely state buildings, which have created their own environmental plan, and which already have a number of projects to point to; I think of the Pilestredet Park and the after-use of Fornebu. And I hope the others come after as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1742	I have a final question to the Council of State that is related to feedback on the results. One comes with a message once a year when it concerns the Government's environmental protection policy, and it is now presented. Can the government plan to get a report on this special field of Stortinget at an earlier date, so that from Stortinget's page we see that this is now being taken seriously, and that we don't have to wait one year until we know if anything has happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1747	I take with me the representative Langeland's wish to get feedback. At least it's not hard to come back and say what we're doing. In the case of concrete results, there are some areas that can be mentioned. In the area of procurement policy, we also intend to see whether some of these schemes can be set up, such as: these electric cars are now exempted from both tolls and parking charges. But I won't get on my table until the end of next year a proposal on different incentive schemes that we can set in motion to really get speed on this work. I just have to bring with me the wish from Langeland and consider whether we can come back at an earlier time if we have something to report that is more direct.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1756	As a result, we have finished handling case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-12.ana.ud1392e1765	There is no record available.
