ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e33	Honourable co-representatives! We have been sadly informed that former Hålis Havrøy, who is 75 years old, has died. Haldis Havrøy met as the biggest representative of Oslo from 1973 to 1981. She was a member of the Social Committee and the Industry Committee – otherwise the first woman ever in the Industry Committee. She was a member of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in the period 1980-81, was delegated to the United Nations General Assembly in 1978 and chaired the Parliamentary Support Group for Chile in the years 1977-81. In 1999, Haldis Havrøy was awarded honorary membership for his efforts for the Norwegian Labour Party. Haldis Havrøy was born in 1925, in Melbu, Northern Ireland. There also began her political career in 1946, when she became a member of Melbu Arbeiderparti's Women's Team. She brought her commitment to the work movement with her when, in 1950, the family moved from the brook of the West to Lilleaker in Oslo. Haldis Havrøy represented the Workers' Party in Oslo from 1959 to 1967, and was a member of the Management Board of the Oslo Workers' Party for a number of years. Haldis was also a member of the Labour Party Women's Secretariat for two periods. After her career as a staggering representative, she went to work as a party secretary in the Hordaland Workers' Party from 1984 to 1985 and also held several positions in the work movement in Bergen and in Hordaland. She also did not forget her original home state, Nordland, since for a few years she took on various positions in the Nordland Academy of Art and Science in Melbu. In 1991, Haldis Havrøy was back as head of Lilleaker Arbeiderparti. Haldis had the ability to inspire people in the political debate. She had a glowing commitment and an honest and direct form. She was known as a socially engaged politician, engaged as she was in women's issues and in combating domestic and foreign abuse. And not least, she put great emphasis on human dignity, regardless of race. Therefore, it was natural that she was among the first to take up the fight against apartheid policy in South Africa. Haldis was considered an internationalist. At the same time, she was strongly attached to Lilleaker every year. Without the efforts of Haldis Havrøy, the Arbeidertune in the Lilleaker district had not become a reality. Today it stands as a monument to the culture of the working class. This year, Arbeidertunet was awarded the LO cultural prize. It's always extra jealous when a former staging representative – one you yourself have been with in Stortinget – goes away. Haldis Havrøy was one of those who took extra heat and who rejoiced at the many new female representatives who were elected to the Stortinget in 1977 – a choice that actually increased the female share from 15 p.m. until 24 pst. For us, Haldis became a thoughtful adviser and a good supporter. Haldis Havrøy will be remembered for his implausible inauguration against, his fiery political commitment, his unreasoning ability to assert his opinions and his good mood. In deep respect, we remember Haldis Havrøy. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e59	They called for alternates, for Buskerud County Hallgrim Berg and for South Trondelag County Michael Momyr, have taken the seat. The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e70	On behalf of Erna Solberg, Anders C. Sjaastad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to take the necessary measures to improve access to transplant organs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e75	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e78	I would like to propose operating grants to the CatoCenter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e83	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e86	On behalf of Øyvind Korsberg, Per Roar Bredvold and myself, I would like to make a private proposal on the decommissioning of the core areas of predatory game, as well as promoting the necessary changes in order to achieve a more effective extraction of predatory game that hurts or creates threatening situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e92	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e104	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 169 of this Official Journal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e118	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e129	It is the first time that the Storting deals with a matter of government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state – on the initiative of the central government, and then the Labour Party came to power with an additional message. A group committee thought it was a good idea to have an annual case about this. But let it be said that the state is far from good, and it may be that the state is deteriorating if the environmental enemy submitted to the state budget is agreed and there will be construction of gas power plants. Let me add, as requested by the case-speaker, that the debate on the environmental message was not just a gas power debate. We've spent a lot of time in the gas debate, and we know most of the arguments. As everyone knows, there will be no construction of a gas power plant in the first year, and gas power plants will never be built if we choose the environmentally friendly options. The main challenge with the environmental message is to make the words for which the multiple is, to act, and to turn words into action, are easier said than done. We're good at making plans, but then the practice and follow-up of the plans is so bad that the plan seems to be completely useless. Environmentally friendly purchasing practices fail in both the leadership of the state and Norwegian hospitals – despite good plans. And yesterday we heard that the mortgage arrangement at the Vinmonopolet is about to be cancelled – it is totally unsustainable. A joint committee now demands action, and we expect the environmental councils to clean up their own houses and present concrete environmental positive results in the next message. A joint committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, is engaged in speeding up the follow-up to the Bio Convention and the forthcoming action plan on biological deficiency. Here, several parties point to the importance of coniferous protection. The Norwegian Institute of Natural Research believes it is necessary to protect 5 pst. in the short term. Here we lie miles behind the Swedes – and we don't like it. It is important that Norway plays an active and fair role in relation to the concept of genetics. The Committee agrees that greater attention needs to be paid to this both nationally and internationally. A thief is a thief, even though it is made by multinational companies. As case spokesman, I particularly welcome the fact that the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, joins in the creation of Norwegian cultural memory funds. The purpose is to speed up the securing of our building heritage. We want public rights to be increased for that purpose, but at the same time we want to have private capital activated for that purpose to a greater extent. The model is taken from the United Kingdom, where he has been very successful. Our challenge to the Minister for the Environment is to get this up and running. We want a proposition in the fall. Can you do that, Minister for the Environment? Another proposal adopted today is noise prevention. Noise related to traffic is currently a serious problem for a great many, and it is designed to reduce noise pollution by 25 pst. by 2010 compared to 1999. The Committee now calls for action to reduce the problems quickly. SV will now, hopefully together with all the other parties – with the exception of the Progress Party – ensure that the noise problem becomes an important part of the work on the national transport plan. I have now used my case manager's time and am about to change to SV-hatt. That means that many good comments are not mentioned. But let me just remind you that it is the Government that is now going to turn words into action. From word to word of action - yes, this is where the Government will fail before the ink is dry. A plurality of the Labour Party’s membership states in the setting under the heading ‘Noise’ that ‘there is a need to focus more strongly on increasing the proportion of collective travellers in order to reduce car use and to reduce goods and goods by road’. So this was worker party policy three months ago. But then we got a budget to turn words into action, and then the action proposals to the Labour Party are very different from what they said three months ago. The working party now refuses to bet on a better collective offer, no to more goods and goods on the road, and with the proposed petrol and diesel taxes, the Labour Party says yes to more noise, yes to more air pollution, and also to more greenhouse gas emissions from private cars and vehicle trains. And they say yes to more asthma and more allergy problems for children in schools and kindergartens. They must now be kept indoors because the exhaust gases from road traffic are too dangerous. SV, a collective environmental movement and all youth organisations say no to this cut in fees. We would like you, the Minister for the Environment, to spend more than two billion dollars you propose to spend on increasing environmental problems, on something that makes sense for environmental policy. Should we not also halve the cost of public transport with the two billion or use them to build urban railways in Bergen and Stavanger or to improve bus and boat services in the districts? You know your policy is scandalous environmental policy. You know that such an environmental policy that you stand for leads to more disease and increases environmental problems. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e163	The President will remind Langeland that the speech will take place via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e166	That's right, yes! It's a recurring problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e171	Since there was so much direct speech, the president felt compelled to intervene, because she thought that Langeland might have forgotten that the president was present. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e174	That's what he does, but it wasn't now, then! I'm asking for cause! The Minister for the Environment knows that the policy put forward by the Labour Party in its budget is scandalous when it comes to climate problems and when it concerns more disease related to road traffic and emissions. And it is impossible, in my opinion, for the Minister for the Environment to be able to say to his kids or to people that what I am doing will improve the state of the environment on this globe. On the contrary, the Minister for the Environment must tell the future generations that, as Minister for the Environment, I have exacerbated environmental problems on this globe. That's what she has to look people in the eye and say. The current Prime Minister was in opposition to SV when it came to managing the wild salmon populations. He was rattling in his criticism of the wretched progress of the central government. Then it happened that he came into position himself, and thus changed his whole character. SV has wanted to challenge the Workers' Party government when this is the case. We have wanted a commitment to ensure that there will be national salmon fjords and national salmon streams. But we now see that the Labour Party itself adds to a practice that broke the principle the Prime Minister said he was for when the Center government put in power. We are also a little surprised that we do not receive support to impose a little more on the farm. Here's the creepy amount to pick up, and we already know that the farming industry doesn't exactly live on buttons and glossy images. In environmental policy, the Labour Party is looking to the right to find the worst solutions. That's what we've seen in matters like gas power, shooting range and Upper Otta. All of these things are bad environmental advertising and make it hard for people to understand that the Labour Party is so different from the Progress Party and the Right in these matters. There is also a clear right-wing populistic profile on the environment in the Labour Party's budget proposal. Today's environmental debate may help the Workers' Party and the Government to understand that they need to look to SV to find an environmental policy course that is not only correct, but also makes it possible to place the Workers' Party in accordance with the rhetoric they run. In my own state, the Workers' Party has understood this. They're no longer going in to build the Sauda Falls. In Northernland, the Workers' Party understood that they had to stop the Beiarn construction. And as an illustration, a little piece like Elkem A/S Salten through energy recovery will save two Beiarn extensions. Around the country there are hundreds of Enok-Beiarn who make gas power plants as well as new watercourse shaves unnecessary. The options for selecting the environment are present. It's up to Siri Bjerke and the Workers' Party to choose sides. Use the well-used compass you received from SV, and you will find the way to an environmental policy that you can tell future generations about with a straight back and a good conscience! Then I thank the President for extra time, but it was basically you who...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e193	Yes, the president is thoughtful – and discovered that the representative Langeland had learned at least during periods of his intervention. [[Laughter]] It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e198	It was an interesting post from the case-rapporteur that I would like to address some of the contents of. He repeatedly refers to the miserable environmental policy of the Workers' Party, and we note with interest that Hallgeir Langeland sees the policies of the Centre parties more closely in line with the course SV wants environmental policy to take. And I think that's the basis for saying that. This message that we're going to have every year is going to be based initially on a progress in development. But what the Labour Party government is now adding to is not just a stagnation; it is well a step backwards for the environmental challenges in important areas, even though other areas are good, among other things. cultural memory policy. It would have been interesting to hear the representatives of Langeland’s assessments of the central government in relation to the workers’ party government. SV has stated that they find it natural with a cooperative constellation also in government with the Workers' Party. But given that SV now constantly claims that environmental policy, and insofar as school policy is also, are the main areas of the Socialist Left Party, Langeland feels comfortable with the fact that there is the Workers' Party SV frees, or would it be more natural to think that SV would prefer a centre government to that of today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e209	To the representative of Rahm: It is clear that there is a point, and I also made a point of that in my speech, that the centre party of environmental policy has been better in the Storting and in the government. Shooter field and Upper Otta are good examples. But then it's that center government, that's some stuff! [[Laughter]] So the answer to the question from the Christian People's Party is that isolated in the environmental policy I think the center has a clearly better profile than the cruel we see from the Labour Party now. The strategy of the Labour Party is, of course, that in the negotiations the Centre will win with some of its environmental issues. At least that's how they've thought it, I think. And it is clear that what Norway needs is an improvement in environmental policy. It doesn't show the Workgroup tendencies to want to do it, but it can be involved and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e216	It may be important to remember that it is the state of the kingdom that we are debating in this matter, Innst. S. No 256 for 1999-2000 and a message sent to the Stortinget from the former Bondevik government. The case rapporteur has also stressed the consensus in the setting. Nevertheless, there are no limits to what kind of terms are used regarding the government's environmental policy. ‘Adamantly’, said the case-rapporteur, Langeland; yesterday we heard ‘bandits in environmental policy’. With the agreement in this setting, I must say that SV must have come into bad company. In fact, SV in the setting has some special comments, and my question to Langeland is: If he wants to turn words into action, which he gave so much attention to, who is it that he wants to credit and cooperate with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e224	Ideally, I would hope that we had 50 pst. by the voices themselves, so that we could create a socialist republic in Norway, but that is hardly the case at first. Overall, it is clear that the Labour Party, through the profile on which it is now based when it comes to fair distribution, is a better option in that policy. But there's something new. When there is a tax on dividends for shareholders, there is something that you have rejected before, but as one now, because of pressure, etc. from the trade union movement, has come on the track with, because one sees that one must have something more fairer distribution than one has had. So it's a positive development for the Workers' Party. But if you look at some of the decisions that are taken on major issues, which go on increasing market power, on the EU and on the environment, then it is clear that the Labour Party's policy becomes more difficult to eat for a party like SV. With regard to what I was also busy with in my post, to lead words to action, I illustrated that this is exactly what the Workers' Party is not doing in relation to that message. In fact, one in the message says that one should strengthen public transport, one should reduce car traffic, one should reduce road freight traffic. So we're going to put in a budget that's going to do the opposite. And then it's clear that we like to have a message, we like to have a plan, but if the actions are not related to the plan, it's not credible, and it also sends a signal to the voters that a party cannot trust, because they change the meaning of important things, as in environmental matters in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e233	Norway imports significant quantities of force this year with normal rainfall. Today we hear the news that BP is taking a price-priced initiative and is being investigated to get electricity to the Norwegian base, and in this way they will drop the CO2 tax. However, when one sees it in that perspective, that Norway is a significant importer of power this year at normal rainfall, it is also such that this electricity has to be produced. With the policy of the SV, that power will be produced in highly polluting coal-fired power stations down in Europe. How will SV ensure that such a positive initiative from BP is followed up with a more environmentally friendly energy, e.g. from a Norwegian gas station?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e238	The representative Hiie from Rogaland is busy with an argument that I recognize from the Right and the Advance Party and from the Labour Party. This is the common argument: if we only build gas power plants, these highly impurising coal power plants in Denmark and they are even worse in Poland, and at the same time we have internal consumption growth. It's a traditional growth thinking, a common thinking that unfortunately also the Labour Party has gone away in, but that right stands for. As I said in my post: Elkem Salten reduces its consumption with two Beiarn extensions through an energy recovery project. We can do the same for a lot of melting plants, and we can also do as the representative Höie has done for himself, investing in heat pumps to bring down the consumption we have today. It's the solution, it's the future. Building gas power plants to put more energy into the market and thus also reduce the price is a signal to people that they can only give the bluff in the environment, they just have to use more power, they don't have to save, because we fix it, we do. It's as little environmentally friendly as it's supposed to be. It's just covering a consumption that's infinite, if you don't try to limit it and think about the environment first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e247	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e250	The first communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and state of the state of the state of the State, St.meld. No 8 for 1999-2000, is a milestone in Norwegian environmental policy. Such a communication will update annually the development of the environment and the main elements of the Government's environmental protection policy. It replaces an annual briefing in the United Kingdom on the state of the environment at national and international level. The first message was presented by the government of Bondevik and was continued by the government of Stoltenberg, who chose to support the entire message and also promote an additional message, St.meld. No 33 for 1999-2000, which was approved by the State Council on 19 May 2000. The idea of an annual report on the state of the State of the State was proposed in 1997 by the then Minister for the Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen, of the Workers' Party. Although the Bondevik government spent two years getting this message out, at least we are now on the move, and the Stoltenberg government will present the second communication on the government's environmental policy and the state of the state of the state before the end of 2000. When the Bondevik government took over the government, they launched themselves as the ‘environmental government’ and built up expectations for major environmental measures in this country. Not least, they generated expectations from environmental organisations. In the newspaper on 6 August 1998, the then leader of Nature and Youth, Silje Schei Tveitdal, says that Guro Fjellang has little to point to, and that the environment is down-prioritised in the central government. Furthermore, she also says that Thorbjørn Berntsen made a better figure as an environmental protection minister than a mountain ranger. I say this because very critical statements have been made, not least from the centre parties – and once we have just heard SV, they have to be included – about the lack of environmental policy of the Stoltenberg government. Enough about that. It might be nice to remind you a little bit about the story. During the treatment of St.meld. No 8 and St.meld. No 33 we had a neat and straightforward process. You can also read that from Innst. S. No 256 for 1999-2000, which shows that it is the centre parties, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party that are closest to each other. I think this is a good signal for the further political work on the environment, but I have some doubts about SV in the future. Where there is a real disagreement, the Government's follow-up to the Stortinge decision of 9 March 2000 concerning the conversion of the natural force emission permits for the gas power stations of Kollsnes and Kårstø. This case has been included in the additional message, St.meld. No 33, where the Minister for the Environment indicates that there is no need to change the pollution law in order to convert the emission permits for the planned gas power plant of the natural power plant in Kollsnes and Kårstø. Of course, this was a matter of great disagreement in the committee. I guess we all remember back to March 9th this year. On 6 October 2000, the Restructuring Decision concluded that natural power could build gas power plants without CO2 cleaning requirements and where the NOx emissions, in addition to what is purified using the best available technology, could be implemented with a third-party solution. Natural power has been instructed to build the power plants so that new technologies can be installed when it is developed to be profitable. This means that the way is going, and that's how you've evolved the oil business into the technological activity that it is today. At the same time, the Labour Party is set at 20 million. kr for next year's budget for research into better technological solutions for gas power plants. The environmental challenges are global, and we all know that borders do not prevent pollution. It is important to be aware that environmental problems need to be addressed internationally. Norway has always been a driver of international environmental protection, and that is why we have many partners and international agreements. Norway is doing important work for, inter alia: ensuring sustainable development and improving the state of the environment in developing countries, and not least in neighbouring regions. I would particularly like to mention the environmental protection work in the polar regions. There is a broad majority of the Stortinget who say that Svalbard should appear as one of the best wilderness areas in the world. This requires very sensible management of the archipelago. We continue to face major and almost invincible environmental challenges in North-West Russia. Here, the Working Party actually gets praise from the environmental organisation Bellona for the work and effort that have been made to solve some of the huge environmental problems, and actually it looks as if Russia is now in a cooperative position and will contribute its part to solving some of the problems. The Communication on the State of the State of the Environment and the Additional Communication address many different environmental challenges nationally. After the debate on the throne, it should almost be believed that the only challenges Norway has are possible emissions from gas power plants. Some of the challenges I think are of great importance to the future and our descendants are the management of wild salmon populations, cultural memory protection and outdoor life. In 1997, a sample was set up to look at the problems surrounding the apparent decrease in the number of wild-axises. The causes of the decline were many, ranging from acidification, attacks by salmon parasites to changing sea temperatures. The committee presented its position to the Ministry of the Environment on 12 March 1999. We all know the main features of the sample setting, where they propose to give the wild axis special protection in 50 salmon streams and 9 salmon fjords. The Bondevik government thought the sample had made proposals that needed more investigation before deciding on the follow-up. Thus, the state of the state of the state of the kingdom had nothing to do with what the central government thought about salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. The Labour Party government had a meaning. This also made it part of the additional message, St.meld. No 33 for 1999-2000. The Labour Party will give its principal support to a system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords, and we will also strengthen the monitoring of salmon stocks. It is also important that the Government will focus on clarifying and weighing all aspects related to aquaculture before considering the extent of salmon fjords. This is a major step in the direction of taking care of and developing our wild stocks. Therefore, the 2001 government budget is increasing by 7 million. kr. Measures against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris and the establishment of a research programme for wild salmon will be particularly priority. During 2001, the Government will present a concrete proposal for national salmon watercourses and fjords. Cultural memory protection in Norway has become a stepchild, both for public and private protection interests. Every year we lose 1 pst. of the country's cultural memories. This is too high. There is broad consensus in the committee – and now the Progress Party too is coming too fully, we hope, if we are to believe what the newspaper said yesterday, that cultural protection must be strengthened. The Committee has previously asked the Government to come up with a stepping-up plan to strengthen cultural memory protection, which has been taken note of by the Government and presented a start to a stepping-up plan for next year's budget of 20 million. kr. This work will continue in 2002. The government will also make a proposal for a cultural memory fund, as the setting we are discussing today adds. So now it's kind of loosened up for an understanding of the value of taking care of our cultural heritage. Finally, I would like to mention the work party government's commitment to outdoor life. The fact that everyone can travel freely in the countryside, in the beach areas and in the mountain resort is of great importance, whether you are young or old. The government will strengthen the budget already for 2001 to ensure important open air areas, especially along the coast. Here, the centre parties and the Workers' Party are completely in line, and we fully support the section on outdoor life presented by the Bondevik government. We expect a rapid announcement of outdoor life, and we are waiting for the new announcement of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e310	Now it looks as if the debate so far is about government cooperation and the possibilities for it. It's kind of a debate we don't participate in. Now it's like having something to live with, and one of the industries that are going to take over after oil and gas is the farming industry. In view of the poor prospects for the wild species, the Rieber-Mohn Committee was set up to propose measures to reduce salmon. Among the suggestions the sample came up with, it was most controversial to close large parts of the Finnland fjords and the rest of the Coast Norway. The number of coastal farming facilities has increased and the fear that escaped farmed salmon would cause disease to the wild salmon. It's happened a lot since then. The survey of salmonnus, which has been carried out in the summer, shows that it is the wild axis that comes with the salmonnus. Many of the established truth about wild salmon and farmed salmon may need to be reconsidered. This summer, wildfish has exceeded all expectations in almost the whole country. Catches have been made that require decades back in time to find a comparison. That is not what the representative, Mr Pedersen, said in one single word. And my question to the Workers' Party is, is the Workers' Party still equally concerned about the future of the villa? And does the Workers' Party support the Wilderness Committee's investigation into shutting down large parts of Coast Norway for farming?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e321	In fact, it's joyous, I must say, to hear the Advancement Party here. If there is one thing that has also taken up the Advance Party, it is the wild axis, and I think that is something that can be agreed in an entire committee, where the Progress Party is also involved. The representative of Korsberg, as I understand it, addresses the concerns of the Villaks Committee's investigation and what we have ahead of us to present during 2001 and how Finnmark is doing. What is in the additional message, St.meld. No 33, you have to look at Finnmark. The proposal of the Rieber-Mohn committee dealing with Finnmark is important to look at, but it may look like it's not going to be in that magnitude. I am aware that there have been very many places around in the quite country a great surge of wild salmon in the rivers this summer. That's good. We know that it goes in waves years about something else in the case of the salmon strain as well. But we're not going to sit on the back and think that everything's going to take care of itself, as the Progress Party believes when it comes to environmental policy. We're going to do a good job of being absolutely sure that in the future, too, and in view of our descendants, we're going to have a wild race.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e330	I want to ask a question related to our biggest environmental challenge, the climate problems. With gas power stations, Norway will receive up to 30 pst. increase in CO2 emissions, and as you know, down to 1 pst. The government has been asked innumerable times to explain what measures it will take to comply with the Kyoto Protocol commitments. But we never get a real answer. Nor in the last response, dated 28 September of this year to the undersigned, could the Minister for the Environment present new climate action, no new plans. Reference was only made to the development of a national allowance system. However, the allowance system should only be a complement to other measures, as set out in Article 6.1(d) of the Kyoto Protocol, and only from 2008. What will the Workers' Party now do to reduce emissions by 2005? After all, it's not done in a hand turn. For the purposes of Article 3.2 of the Kyoto Protocol: «Each Party included in Annex I shell, by 2005, have made demonstration progress in avoiding its commitments under this Protocol.» In other words, each country included in Annex I — Norway — must have made demonstrable progress in fulfilling its obligations under this Protocol by 2005 — demonstrable progress. And then, of course, the question is, how has the Workers' Party intended to achieve demonstrable progress by 2005? What action will be taken? If you want to reach that timetable, you have to get started very quickly. It would be interesting to hear the presentation of the measures by the representative, Torny Pedersen. Or has the Workers' Party intended to break these commitments under the Kyoto Protocol? At least that will be an interesting political news. If you don't intend to do that, I expect the representative Pedersen to have good and clear answers here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e353	Frafjord Johnson, in my opinion, raises an important question. The most important thing we've done is we've got the Kyoto Protocol through in this house. It is the most important thing that we have done to get started and do something about all the challenges we have in the climate field. But we're also going to do other things that matter, and we have. Among other things, we have applied to the final waste treatment charge. We use the pollution law both in relation to industry and the waste sector – an important thing. At the same time, we have an agreement with the aluminium industry. So it's doing something to get us started. And maybe it could have been done even more from the government that set up in March. Maybe it could have started a process that would have been easy to follow up, and added some leads. Now it's the Stoltenberg government that does it. It's going to do a lot of things before we get to 2005. The main thing is that we're in port when we get to 2008-2012. But we're going to do something all the time in the period we're now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e360	In yesterday's country friend, we can read that the Minister for the Environment will have all the dispensations relating to the relationship with the 100-metre belt on the South on his table in the future. It must mean that the Workers’ Party does not trust that those living along the coast can manage these areas in a good way through their own local democracy. What makes the Workers' Party think that the Minister for the Environment is better able to assess the management of these areas, for example. for bathing and outdoors than those people who live there and use these areas are?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e366	I think it's very important that you have an overview of the coastal zone areas that we have and that we have left. One of the areas where we have good cooperation and climate in relation to the centre is to save what had to be left of open-air areas in beach areas. It's an incredibly important thing. I don't think we should discuss who is in charge of this best or worst, but it's important that we now have some areas liberated, so that we know that all rights are guaranteed, and that everyone, old and young, can be allowed to travel in the coastal zone. We see that it grows up a culture where a buyer and makes arrangements in a way that has led to a bad development. And when we look at Oslo, it's 300 who owns the most, and the other Oslo inhabitants can flag by 2 centimeters each in relation to the areas, we see how big the problem really is. So this doesn't apply to who's doing the best or the worst, but it's important that the public takes responsibility in terms of just outdoor life and beach areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e374	Most of us who live in this country use all or part of their leisure time for some type of outdoor life. For some, a trip in forest and land and mountains with opportunities for fishing or hunting is important, while for others, having a home with a liberal land and proximity to sea, for example, is important. In this respect, I would like to warn you about the confrontational line the Workers' Party and the Centre parties seem to be going on about the issue of the beach zone. We in the Progress Party are deeply concerned about the signals on new state directives and laws on the so-called coastal zone issue. The vast majority of those living in the beach zone have had their homes for decades or through generations. It is also a fact that owners of new houses and cabins in the beach zone have actually received official permission to build. Politicians and bureaucrats who undermine their rights thus interfere with the ability of ordinary families to plan their own lives and to freely use their homes, cabins and gardens. I would like to show that a number of coastal municipalities have found good solutions to ensure the rights of all in cooperation with the landowners. We in the Progress Party believe that municipal autonomy is important – also in this area. There's a big difference between the municipalities. There must therefore be a high degree of room for local variation and responsibility that best suits each municipality. The Progress Party believes it is important that the Government review the whole of cultural memory policy and, in particular, the taxes and charges – and regulations – imposed on private owners and which counteract private protection efforts. In this respect, I should like to refer to a document No. 8 proposals put forward by the Progress Party, proposing amendment of the law on cultural memories so that the State bears the costs of a separate examination before the implementation of measures. There are many builders who have invested large amounts in land or other form of real estate and who will incur large additional costs by not being given a quick explanation as to whether the property can be used for the purpose for which it was intended. The Progress Party believes that today’s scheme can help to increase the cost of housing projects because cultural memory protection has resulted in additional costs being incurred on the project. This will help to hit, for example, low-cost dwellings that are intended for groups such as: young people and older people. Today's cultural memory protection helps to expose the necessary and effective densification of urban areas. This in turn contributes to a price pressure on existing dwellings in these areas. In my opinion, this is very regrettable. In many cases, the cost of the survey may exceed the value of the property and otherwise make social projects unprofitable because the State does not take financial responsibility. The public takes large amounts each year from action holders who must have carried out investigations. This code meets wherever companies are located. This means that legislation can not only be a brake on urban development but also on ensuring employment and industrial development in districts. We in the Progress Party believe that an economic review of private protection efforts and the Government's investigation of Document No. Our 8 proposal is absolutely crucial in terms of funding cultural memory protection. We in the Progress Party believe that the main objective of the Government in relation to environmentally hazardous chemicals is that the criteria and instruments developed must promote a step-by-step reduction of risks through product development, environmentally sound consumption choices and safe management. Emission requirements are important conditions of competition for industry. In the interests of competition for Norwegian industry competing on an international market, inter alia: with industry from other European countries, we believe it is important that future emission requirements in Norway take place as a result of the implementation of directives in the EEA territory and not through forced national concession rounds. I would like to point out here that through the EEA Agreement, Norway has full access to participate in the design of the framework for future emission permits in Europe. The Progress Party has registered that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change believes that man-made CO2 emissions are important for global warming and lead to climate change. We're just like a bunch of scientists sceptical about this. It is only to record that there is considerable disagreement among researchers about the scope and possible significance of this to the climate. I want to show that the Earth has undergone a number of climate change and ice age. Climate change is natural and ongoing. It is a fact that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change cannot at all explain the significant changes in the climate that have occurred in previous times. In this context, I would like to point out that human-made activities contribute about 3 pst. of the total global CO2 emissions. There may be some of the main reasons why the Intergovernmental Panel has explanation problems in this area. That is why we are very sceptical about the Government's climate action and the measures proposed, and we will oppose the ratification of the Kyoto agreement. The Progress Party will also strongly distance itself from unilateral national CO2 taxes that will be anti-competitive for our business and our industry. We often hear in the media that more recent research shows that what you believed in before, no longer votes. It also happens in the climate debate. I'm here to refer to James Hansen, a researcher at NASA's Institute of Space Research. He has long been a central driver of the thesis of a man-made global warming. He started the climate concern during a congress hearing in 1988 by saying that it was more than 90 p.m. that people were about to warm up the earth. However, in a recent article, he meets the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and himself by claiming that there is no fossil fuel and CO2 that cause global warming but other greenhouse gases. Not knowing too little about the climate system and its dynamics to separate any human contribution from the natural, James Hansen's article is an example. I would like to point out in the communication that road traffic is the clearly dominant source of noise pollution, especially in cities and agglomerations. Road traffic congestion can be significantly reduced by a more rational road structure where the main roads are laid away from the city centre and agglomerations themselves. Similarly, upgrading and improvement of the current road surface will have a major impact on traffic noise. Earlier in our work, the Ministry of the Environment is working on the idea of imposing a noise tax on car tyres. We in the Progress Party take a strong distance from such a thought and hope that the department will lay these plans dead forever – otherwise there will be trouble. For many communities along our coast, the farming industry itself is the symbol of the future and the opportunities for viable districts. In this connection, I must express my scepticism at the setting of the Villaks Committee. With extensive protection, the consequences will be dramatic for large parts of the farming industry. I am not going to pre-empt the wild-axis debate, but with such extensive protection, it is clear that many farms have to move. It also prevents the creation and, consequently, large national and local value creation and viable rural and community communities. The preliminary reports on the year’s fishing of wild caught salmon and good catches both at sea and in rivers. In many rivers salmon fishing has been the best in several decades, and there is also a good reason to ask a lot of questions about the crisis description that characterises the Villaks Committee's investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e398	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e401	That the Progress Party has no environmental policy, they do not hide at once. We hear in today's debate and in Mr Korsberg's speeches that they have fine words in terms of environmental policy, outdoor policy and salmon management, but when it comes to practical policy, they do not want to do anything. We can also see from the previous and current budgets that the Progress Party has no policy in this area. We've had a pretty bitter experience with that. In fact, in the context of this year's budget, the Progress Party proposed to cut the entire allocation of nuclear safety measures in Eastern Europe. The progress party has subsequently had to realise that the nuclear submarine accident in the Barents Sea is so serious that preventive action in this area must actually be taken. It is not useful to come silent after the accident has occurred. Then it could be too late. And so that's what the Progress Party has understood in this context. It concerns both nuclear accidents and climate disasters. They must be prevented. We have to prevent them from occurring. It is too late to make a leap in money and environmental measures after the accident and environmental disaster have occurred. The ‘Cursk’ accident thus caused the Progress Party to grasp the seriousness of the nuclear threat. In climate policy, prevention may be even more important. If it first happens to be a disaster, it's too late. It is not useful to say as the representative of Korsberg that there is some researcher who is in doubt. At the stage when the environmental disaster occurs, it is too late. And my question to Mr Korsberg's representative is: Has not the experience of the 'Kursk' accident led the Progress Party to realise that climate policy must also be based on a precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e408	It is true that in the Progress Party we have a different environmental protection policy than part of the other parties here in the Chamber. We often have a different policy in many other areas as well, and then the other parties come after them. If it does happen in the environmental impact too, it will show time. In the field of nuclear safety in Eastern Europe, it is important to consider, first of all, the legal commitments that are then being made. As far as I know, part of the funds that have been allocated have not been used. These funds were also to trigger local funds, something that did not happen. I know that in the mid-1990s, there were large funds that were not used, among other things. to nuclear safety, because it was not possible to reach an agreement on the legal obligations if things went wrong. With regard to the climate debate, it was not any scientist who had changed his mind. It was actually the scientist who started the whole debate, and I think that is quite crucial. It is the case that more recent research is producing more recent results, including in the climate debate. You have to be very careful to start actions that cost billions of dollars without being reasonably sure that what you do is right. With regard to the tragic accident that the Russian defence had in the Barents Sea, I really don't think it belongs in this debate in a way, and I don't have time to answer it either, because I see that the time is running out. But security, whether military or civil, is important, but it should be taken within the budget of each country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e419	The President is uncertain whether the representative of Korsberg would make proposals when he had the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e422	Maybe I can do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e427	The representative of Korsberg has put forward the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e430	Initially, I would like to say it would have been interesting to hear how the representative of Korsberg would explain that the others should be able to dilt after someone who lies many miles behind. All parties to the Committee, except the Party of Advancement, have been very committed to reverse the negative development of wild salmon populations, and have therefore adhered to the principle of national salmon fjords and salmon waters. Norway has a significant international responsibility for securing wild salmon populations. Norwegian salmon have been known far beyond the borders of the country for several hundred years, and Norwegian salmon rivers continue to receive considerable international attention. Tourists are just coming to Norway to experience these unique natural experiences that are real. The right is therefore in line with the principle of national salmon fjords and national salmon streams, but of course we need to consider each proposal in concrete terms. The marine industry is in the midst of a strong growth. Many, as Korsberg says, have predicted this to become Norway’s main export industry. But how does the Progress Party believe that the international market will react to our strongest brand, ‘Norwegian salmon’, if their policy is put into effect, and we have had a situation in a few years in which Norway has eradicated the Norwegian wild race? Does not the Progress Party see that their policy, which is probably supposed to be positive towards an important industry, is perhaps the most dangerous threat to industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e439	The representative Höie started by saying that we're dilting a lot of miles behind the other games. But they're asking you how to walk. If you go in circles, you go behind each other, and that's what I feel like the other parties are doing. Let me just say that the Progress Party is the party that is dedicating most money to liming in budgetary terms. It shows that we take this seriously with both wild fish, trout fishing and the value it represents for both locals and travellers. As far as the farming industry is concerned, you should be aware that there is an enormous amount of value creation that we are talking about here. We have not said that you should not care about the wild salmon strains. We have, and there has been agreement in the Storting, proposed measures to combat the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. That way, I think we're doing just that. However, it is clear that there is a balance between local interests, national interests and some visitors in terms of river salmon fishing and the value-creating of the farming industry. I think this year's salmon season is an excellent picture that there is not so bad with the wildax strain. There has never been so much salmon in many, many decades that it has been done this year. Closely said anyone has had salmon, whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e449	The party of progress is still on the point of not having a national and international climate policy. The Progress Party rejects the fact that climate change can be linked to anthropogenic relationships. But that position is isolated, and it has little chance of winning. So the Progress Party will at some point be confronted with an international agreement that is ratified. If they had to vote against, the agreement was ratified. I assume that the lot will feel obliged to do so. Therefore, the Progress Party will also have to decide on the fulfilment of the contract, on the question of how the burden is to be distributed. But we haven't heard a word about that. So the Progress Party risks standing completely without a policy on the day that the Kyoto agreement has been ratified. The simple question is, is it really enough to say that time, that grief?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e454	As I said in my post, we strongly doubt whether there is man-made activity that affects the climate. I think this is 97 pst. of the total global emissions of CO2 come from nature itself is a pretty good example. You've been through 40 ice ages before both we politicians and people came to this earth. So it's clear that climate change is happening all the time. We will go against a ratification of the Kyoto agreement, because it will hit us as a nation quite hard. We believe that the basis on which the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is based is syllable. We're wondering if there's going to be any of the whole Kyoto agreement, because here's where the United States sits with the key, and over there there's not exactly a big mood to ratify this agreement. So we really have a rather relaxed relationship with the entire Kyoto agreement, because we're assuming it's never going to be ratified.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e461	The cord shift is over. Before giving the floor to Mr. Hilde Frafjord Johnson, the President would like to ask Mr. Hallgeir Langeland, the rapporteur of the matter, if he would like to put forward the proposals in the vote and which he did not include in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e466	Yes, I do. It's the way I lost my head a little bit, so I didn't get to put them forward. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e473	The President has a great deal of understanding of that. Then Langeland has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e476	St.meld. No 8 on the state of the country's environment was presented by the Bondevik government in October 1999. It is gratifying that the centre lots have been wound up and the annual submission of such a notification. This will ensure that the environmental policy map is more consistent with the terrain. It will, hopefully, also contribute to the participation of other sectors in the responsibility for the state of the environment in Norway. Without such accountability, we will not achieve entirely key environmental objectives. National efforts to protect biodiversity need to be strengthened. A number of reports in recent years have concluded that much more forest protection is required in order to maintain biodiversity in the Nordic region. During the review of the 1994-1995 report, the majority said that a strategy for the protection of new sites should be drawn up in addition to the proposed protection plan. That hasn't happened. The Christian People's Party, together with the SV and the Left, now asks that the Government make such a harsh forest strategy. In the opposition, the Workers' Party criticised the Centre for Accidents in relation to the wild axis, and among others: on this basis the additional message was notified. But then the pipe got a different sound, which was also addressed by the case-rapporteur. Some of the ambitious rhetoric of the Workers' Party has been followed up in the message. From going in full for the Villeks Committee setting, the signals from the Workers' Party and the Government have now become much more cautious. The importance of caring for the wild is indisputable. There's no doubt that we have to do more, and that it's urgent. The Christian People's Party adheres to the Government's principles for the management of the future wild-axe tribe. We will support proposals to reverse the negative developments. But we think it's most neat to get the suggestions on the table first, concretely, before we draw our conclusions. The treatment of the EU Patent Directive is also central to biodiversity. It is partly contrary to the Biodiversity Convention. These are patents on living organisms, and they can help multinational companies gain greater financial control over genetic resources in developing countries, or genetic modification, if they want to. Norway should be prepared to say no if the case of the Netherlands does not win. We find an important environmental policy win in this setting, and it's about cultural memory protection. The creation of a separate Norwegian Cultural Memory Fund can contribute to a genuine cultural heritage promotion in Norway. That's good, and that's necessary. This cannot be said of the gas power issue and climate policy that I am now going to come to. The situation regarding the gas power stations of Kårstø and Kolsnes has changed considerably since this setting was issued. Nevertheless, the government's proceedings have not led to the clarification that would have been necessary and desirable. It's kind of messy. Before the summer, the size was given conflicting information on the need to amend the pollution law. The additional notification made it clear that the conversion of emission permits does not require legislative changes. However, in the form of a letter, Stortinget was informed that this could not be resolved at last until after a detailed procedure was completed in the autumn. Furthermore, the relationship between the pollution law and CO2 emissions was not assessed in the additional notification. This despite the law department of the Ministry of Justice's very clear opinions on CO2 in relation to the pollution law. The size can not be given different information through staging messages and written replies in the form of letters. And we expect to get the right information when we ask. This is the background to the strong criticism in the attitude against the Government's handling of this matter. The criticism was no less justified when suddenly a new letter came from the Minister for the Environment a few hours before delivery. The requirements for NOx technology were based on the requirements for the best available technologies under the IPPC Directive. In response of 6 June, according to the Minister for the Environment, this question would only be resolved in the autumn. Thus, nine days later, on 15 June, the Minister of Environment’s assessments were clear – on the target line, without justification. What would have happened during these days? Nothing – at least nothing of substance, as far as the Storting is informed, just that there had been a certain debate in Stortinget that turned out to be very uncomfortable with the government party. This is a little credible. I don't think you can operate like this in relation to Stortinget. Now, however, we have come to ‘out of the harvest’. This is history. The government has made its decision. Shouldn't all relationships be clarified? No, I'm sorry. The government has changed the emissions permits without it being clear that this is in line with the law. In particular, questions may be asked whether the conversion of the CO2 emissions permit is within the scope of the pollution law. It's also in this area the doubt has been greater. The additional message said nothing about this. Such superficial treatment is not very reliable. On 6 March of this year, the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice delivered an opinion on changes to gas power plants’ emission permits. I quote: ‘Where the establishment of gas power plants results in significant greenhouse gas emissions without leading to an approximately equivalent reduction of emissions or environmental damage elsewhere, it is possible, in the view of the Legal Department, to raise quite serious legal objections to the granting of emission permits under the pollution law. ... It will also have a bearing on the safety – legal and actual – the permit will provide environmental benefits elsewhere. ... This suggests that a relatively high level of certainty should be required that the environmental benefits will arise in order to justify the authorisation of an activity which, in isolation, will lead to significant pollutant emissions.’» In the case of the Ministry of the Environment's case for conversion, it is said that it must 'be considered as most likely that gas power stations will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions'. And then you do this in answer depending on, for example, the supply of power, prices and consumption. Most should agree that there is a difference between ‘high level of security’ ‘legal and actual’ and ‘most likely’ — depending on price and consumption developments. In addition, in its conversion, the Ministry has only explicitly assessed the opinions of the Legal Service in relation to NOx emissions. In the case of CO2, we do not find a single reference to the law department. And the SFT has not dealt with the issue in the context of the terms of the emission permits, despite the fact that the SFT is responsible for the management of the pollution law, and despite the fact that CO2 is to be treated under the pollution law, as the government of Jagland in its time agreed and joined the Stortinget. Now, SFT appears to be excluded from the assessments, and the result is full emissions of CO2 in the emissions permit. It's critical. It has been said earlier in this case that this is about politics, not juss. But we must respectfully announce that the government, the administration or the politicians do not go beyond the law they have passed, or at least can guarantee that that does not happen. Does the Council of State consider that ‘most likely’ is synonymous with the law department’s opinion on ‘high level of security’ ‘legal and factual’? We want an answer to that question. The construction of highly polluting gas power plants in Norway will increase Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by about 5 pst. To meet our international obligations, we need to reduce our emissions by almost 30 pst. if these gas power stations are built. Almost no new measures have been presented by the Government to reduce total emissions — and this is when, according to Article 3.2 of the Kyoto Protocol, demonstrable progress has to be made in implementing its commitments by 2005. It cannot be called a particularly offensive environmental policy. A national quota system is the only one to which the Council of State refers. That's also what got the biggest place in the supplementary message, and that's what it refers to when we ask the Council of State. But the system of allowances is not a segregated segregated system. Emissions must be brought down anyway. And the allowance system, under the Kyoto Protocol Article 6.1(d), shall only be complementary to the national measures. The Labour Party has also participated in saying so in Stortinget. The job gets even heavier with 30 pst. than by 25 pst. Everyone knows how difficult it is to meet these obligations for Norway. Now you make it even worse. The reality is that other sectors have to bear the burden on the emissions of gas power plants. They have to pay the price. If it's not politics, yes, then I don't know! What I want to hear is what other sectors are going to pay this price. Is it the industry that has to pay for it? Do you want to turn around for Norwegian drivers and fuel prices? Is that the transport industry? Here we want clear answers. This summer we have witnessed that the North Pole for the first time was an open raid. The ice at the Arctic is melting. It's a serious signal of global warming. At the same time, climate scientists' forecasts from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are even worse and even safer than before. It's alarming, and the climate issue is our biggest environmental policy challenge. That is why it deserves the greatest attention in this debate. This actually requires action. In such a situation, it seems, for observers at least, that the Government has lost its vision of environmental policy – unfortunately. In the languages of the throne, the environment was scarcely mentioned. The working party almost seems to have left out the environmental perspective in its speeches. We can choose to view this as an forgetfulness, or we can choose to view it as a passing phenomenon. It's just a shame it's become a rule rather than an exception. But the good mountain sweat rule is still relevant: it's never too late to turn around. With this, I would like to address proposal No. 9, which is distributed, but which will be distributed in the room in corrected version, which is on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, and not only the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e536	Hilde Frafjord Johnson has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e541	Today we are discussing the position of the Energy and Environment Committee on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The document of the previous government on environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the State that came to the State of Stortingen joined the current government. So it's the central government report that we're dealing with today. The working party agrees with the centre of all environmental policy measures in this setting, except one, and in the case of gas power stations. And then there's a strange criticism of Frafjord Johnson coming with him against his own, the previous, government today. But I also think Frafjord Johnson must take inward that there is a solid majority in this hall for the construction of gas power plants. It's politics. We don't have to turn this hall into a courtroom. It gets others to deal with, like the division in the Norwegian system is. In environmental policy, as elsewhere, as the political situation is in Stortingen, it is important to achieve something, alliances must be built. And I particularly noticed during the throne debate the previous two days that several representatives of the Christian People's Party came across with harsh criticism of the Government. It wasn't much of an alliance building and getting anything else. From our side, we're willing to get something more. But let me ask Frafjord Johnson at the end: is it the alliance with the Progress Party that is going to bring about innovation in environmental policy and contribute to the building of alliances – when the Progress Party, knowingly from this pulpit today, said that they are opposed to the ratification of one of the main international environmental policy instruments that I hope we will get into port, namely the Kyoto agreement? I wish Frafjord Johnson the best of luck with that alliance building.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e552	The dividing lines between the Working Party and the Environmental Policy Centres are not just about gas power stations. I can inform the representative Nordtun about other important environmental issues where there have been clear dividing lines. One thing is the willingness to follow up the Kyoto agreement, which is well associated with gas power stations, where we have a different attitude. The other are green taxes, where the Workers' Party would not accept the central government's proposal in its time, the willingness to invest environmentally in transport policy, we have seen public transport in this state budget, Upper Otta, shooting ground in the East, Beirarn, environmental distortion in energy policy with a focus on renewable energy sources, we started it, now it is cut in the state budget, and increased electricity tax, which we presented for a big deal where the Workers' Party said no, but now the Workers' Party is coming after. Of course, we should be happy about that, but we can list a wide range of points in environmental policy where the dividing lines are clear. Then, of course, we have to build alliances to get results. We have. I think with respect to report that the Workers' Party might not be speaking very loudly about building alliances. There is a policy here. Climate issues are our main environmental policy challenge. I think we will all notice the consequences in a short time if we do not have an action programme that will produce results and ensure that Norwegian commitments are respected. And then you shouldn't say that this is juss. It's actually a policy. The Christian People's Party has never allied itself with the Progress Party in environmental policy, and I do not expect that there will be any strong alliance in the future either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e561	Let me first say that I agree with what has been said about the need for alliance construction, and I would say that the position we are actually dealing with today is proof that there is a relatively broad consensus on many elements of environmental policy. The right is also very pleased with the consensus reached on cultural memory protection. Let me just remind you that when the central parties were in government, it was the Right that had to push the central government to provide more towards cultural memory protection. I am also pleased with the cooperation that the Right and Center parties have had in preventing the expansion of the Beiarn watercourse. Let me also refer to the Right’s new programme, where the Right writes that ‘restrictions are being made in relation to the further development of hydropower resources’, and it underlines that ‘the consideration of the next generation of natural experiences suggests that we should preserve the vast majority of remaining watercourses untouched’. It is also a signal from the Right that we want to build wider alliances in environmental protection policy. On the other hand, I was a little disappointed when I heard Frafjord Johnson's posts, because I had registered the proposal of the Christian People's Party, which was put forward today in terms of gas power and the Kyoto Protocol. That proposal, I think, is unproblematic, and with that proposal, I got the impression that now it had been accepted that a majority is a majority and put this reluctance aside. But when I heard the post from Frafjord Johnson, I was a little in doubt. Is it so that the central parties with the Christian People's Party now accept that a majority is a majority, and accept the emission permit granted by the ministry, which is entirely in line with the majority of the Storting? Or is it that you're still going to have to have a replay and reversion in the gas power case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e570	I must first give the representative Sanner the honor of the watercourse formulation in the programme. I also hope that the right comes after the centre parties in a stronger environmental profile in other areas. It's not reversing that drives the center parties, that run the Christian People's Party or me personally – far from it. It is an important issue related to the climate challenges we are actually facing, and where Norway is in the process of being in a situation where we are up to 30 pst. increase, and we're going down to 1 pst. So it doesn't look like this hall has taken up this challenge. No one in the international environment can imagine – or in developing countries for that matter – that they will accept that Norway should be able to buy free of this obligation. It is totally unrealistic that we should be able to buy free from such an increase — Norway, one of the world’s richest countries, with a gigantic oil production and many billions of books abroad — not be able to take a chance in the sea. And then I ask the question, how do you intend to ensure that these obligations are followed up? In fact, it is stated in Article 3.2: by 2005. This will help to further increase emissions by using gas power plants. That's what we're dealing with. It's not rehab. It's just to complain about the mundane words, but it's the opposite of the next generation's concern, which will experience a global climate of total disturbance if we and the rest of the Western industrialized countries do not ensure a reduction in global emissions. And Norway has to take responsibility. Everyone expects it from a petroleum nation like Norway. And then the bulk of the population won't have peace, either in climate policy or in the matter of gas power plants. We're going to continue to debate this, but it's not going to be of a reluctance, it's not going to be of a bother – that's not what we're looking for, but we want to make sure Norway does its obligations. If we don't, we can never expect China, India and other developing countries to do the same. And after all, that's where the emissions are going to increase most. China is in the process of thanking the United States as the largest emitter of CO2. If we don't, we'll never make China do it. Then we are sold environmentally, and we do not want to sit still and look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e580	I join most of what Hilde Frafjord Johnson here presented in his post. I also agree with the proposal that has been put forward. But a few challenges: when it comes to the gas power debate, I said in my post that there is reason to believe that at least gas power plants are not being built with the first, and not the first year, and that we – center, SV and possibly several – must in one way find a strategy so that we can train the construction of gas power plants further. And then I also thought that the center administration had a problem when they were in position, because they're not good enough about the alternatives. They're not good enough to run alternative renewable energy to do something about the additional potential we know is there. So my challenge to Frafjord Johnson is: how can we, the centre and SV, create a common front against the coal power comrades in the Right, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, and perhaps especially now in the context of the budgetary negotiations? Or is it something that the Christian People's Party is selling out? And then in relation to the fuel and diesel taxes: can the Christian People's Party be very specific about whether they are in agreement with the SV and all the political youth organisations that one should not cut the fuel tax, but that one should use the petrol tax to strengthen the collective supply? When Frafjord Johnson said that the two billion dollars spent on environmental pollution and increased greenhouse gas emissions could be used, for example. reducing, halving the price of a bus ticket? Will this be a strategy in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e589	I understand that the representative Langeland wants to conduct some budgetary negotiations in the Chamber. It's tried many times before. I'm not going to believe that. Let me first say that we have experienced SV as a real ally in these matters, in both the gas power and climate issues and in other environmental issues, and that cooperation will continue on a broad front. But we also need a majority, and we have to try to work for what Langeland was into. In the case of gas power plants, we are involved in discussing a strategy. We've already started to discuss that in the middle of the game. As far as alternative energy is concerned, I would say that the budget proposals of the Centre Parties, the increase in renewable energy sources and, above all, the energy communication with the 5 billion DKK over 10 year investment programme, are a real hand in trying to find alternative and more environmentally friendly energy carriers for Norway. In addition, in March we presented a package of measures aimed at developing new gas power technologies and at facilitating, politically and economically, alternatives that are free of CO2. I think we've done a decent job in that context, even though probably a lot of people think we could do even more. So in the case of budgetary negotiations, at least the Christian People's Party will work to create a distortion that means that public transport is not affected as it becomes in this budget, but I will not go into detail on things that have to do with the budget otherwise. We've said what we have to say, publicly, until now, and then Hallgeir Langeland and others might be waiting in suspense.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e603	When you listen to this debate and also to the debate on the number of thrones that has been in the past week, you can get the impression that it is in environmental policy that the greatest political differences are emerging. With all due respect, I have to say that I have trouble letting it go strongly inward. We have recorded that the environmental movement is deeply dissatisfied with the budget of the working party government, just as the centre had to tolerate the same debt from the environmental movement when they presented their environmental protection budgets. With the exception of the Progress Party, which is largely distinct, this setting is marked by a broad consensus between the Centre Parties, the Working Party and the Right. On the issue of biodiversity, on the issue of overfertilisation, on the issue of cultural memories, on the issue of air pollution, on the issue of noise and on the issue of the challenges for the wild species. In these areas, there is broad political consensus. The issues that have created the most debate are those that have already been clarified. There are questions that should have been behind us. If you had compared Guro Mountainer's environmental protection budget and Siri Bjerke's environmental protection budget, I'm not sure which budget had come out the best. And what do we see in the discussion that is now going on? Well, the Senterpartiet travels around the country and the beach and says they want lower taxes on petrol. With regard to another issue that has been raised in the debate, namely the question of the allocation of so-called renewable energy sources, the central parties, when placed with the government power, were unable to even spend the money allocated to that purpose – yes, most of all, had to be returned to the other budget. In the case of the Progress Party, they stand out. I have the impression that there's the attitude: if it goes, it goes. This applies both to the issue of nuclear safety and to the issue of the Kyoto agreement, and we have also seen that the party cuts heavily in the allocations of both cultural memories and outdoor security. The right is very concerned about the question of the future of the wild stock. We are committed to supporting the principle of national salmon watercourses and national salmon fjords. We see here that there is a balance between different interests, and we are interested in and willing to enter into that debate. We do not accept the attitude of the Advance Party that one must choose, that one must choose either the farming industry or bet on the wild game. That is an attitude that we cannot accept. We think it's possible to reconcile these two considerations. We have seen that the farming industry has made a powerful effort to reduce undesirable environmental impacts, by reducing escape, combating salmon and also reducing organic emissions. It's an example that it's possible to reconcile these two considerations. On the other hand, we see new fronts emerging in environmental policy. On the one hand, we have the more pessimistic and old-fashioned environmental policy, while on the other hand we have the more optimistic and modern environmental policy. The old environmental policy is mostly concerned with symbolism. Environmental success is measured by the number of dollars allocated to the Ministry of Environment's budget and by the number of millions allocated to wind turbines. The main focus is on national emissions, without seeing this in a more regional or global context. Modern environmental policy focuses on finding international solutions to international environmental problems. It focuses on national and international cost-effectiveness in order to maximise the environment out of each krona. Furthermore, it focuses on research and new technologies to reduce and preferably eliminate environmentally harmful emissions. There is more use of carrots and less use of whips to promote environmentally friendly behaviour, both among people and within business. And there are issues of finding a good balance between use and protection, which both ensure the potential for resource use in our long-term country and ensure that we take care of natural values for future generations. We've had more recent questions moving along this axis. The debate on gas power plants, the discussion on the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement and the issue of the introduction of a national and an international quota system are clear examples that distinguish the more old-fashioned environmental policy from the new and modern environmental policy. I have trouble finding out exactly where the Workers' Party is positioned along this axis. You sit with one leg in the old tradition, where you first measure the success of the symbols. Let me go here, among other things. indicate that the Workers' Party is still willing to use million, perhaps billion, amounts, to set up windmills along the Norwegian coast, while not fully committed to the opportunities offered by the introduction of natural gas along the West Coast. Now there's going to be a little 20 million. kr, to be used for a natural gas test in the Bergen region. But why not take the step fully? Why don't you say yes, this is what we're betting on? There will be great environmental benefits locally, and it will provide enormous value creation potential along the whole coast if we say, yes, we go for the natural gas road and we go to replace the highly polluting dieselfergens with high-tech gas ferries. It will bring great environmental benefits. I hope that in the course of the budget process in Stortinget we will be able to increase the allocation of natural gas infrastructure, so that we can really extract the potential that lies there. I'm glad the representative Frafjord Johnson said it's not reversing that drives them in the gas power case. But there is still a doubt in my mind. Do you not accept or accept the majority of the Storting that has supported the new emissions permits? We are going to discuss how we are going to comply with the Kyoto agreement, both nationally and globally, but as a basis for this, the central parties must now accept that a majority in the Stortinget has a different attitude than the central parties in the gas power issue. I believe that the only center will be achieved by continuing to ask for reversion and reprisal in the gas power case is increased political disdain. A majority is a majority, and it also has to be the central parties. So you're saying rhetorically, what sectors are the ones that have to pay? We're going to do something national. But even the centre parties have not gone in for everything to be done nationally. You wouldn't even set a limit on how much would be taken nationally. A cost-effective environmental policy is being pursued, and therefore it is also the centre parties' commitment to a global quota system. This is recognised by the countries of Eastern Europe, which, of course, want us to be involved in replacing their old, polluting coal-fired power stations with a new clean-up technology. And it gets its approval from countries in Latin America and South America, because you can also help them reduce their emissions by going into and investing in new technology. I see that the time is running out. I have to say a little about the proposal that has been put forward today by the Right. The question of balancing the rights of all persons with private property is very central. The right is concerned with reducing the level of conflict along the coast. For this reason, the Right has been committed in all years to increase the appropriations for securing open air areas. We note that both the Labour Party and the Centre parties in previous budgets have just cut this item. Instead, money was granted for legal assistance, which would only help to raise the level of conflict. We are now recording that the Minister of Environment wants to use more state governance and state coercion against the municipalities along the coast of Norway. The right is concerned with ensuring the needs of the rights of all, but we have faith in local self-government. I am surprised that the Workers' Party, on the one hand, is talking about local freedom and local self-government, while on the other hand it is in favour of increased government governance and coercion towards the municipalities. This can't be on the right. We have faith in local self-government, and we have faith in anti-conflict measures. Now we have an opportunity to really ensure public access to large and important open-air areas. A number of defence properties are now to be sold. The right considers that many of these areas should be safeguarded for the future and secured to open-air areas for the public. That is why we are promoting a proposal today. We hope that it gets a majority, so that you get a strong lead on the further process. I'm addressing the proposal, which is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e637	Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e642	The representative Sanner has today told us that the Right in his programme will propose that the remaining watercourses should be untouched and left to the next generation. The right and the representative Jan Tore Sanner have in many cases made themselves spokespersons for nature protection. It's positive. But they are far from consistent. In particular, I have noticed that the protection of the beach zone, which he has just talked about, has a much lower priority than watercourses and high mountains. I wish that the Right in this area showed greater willingness to protect this part of our nature and would help to facilitate the conditions so that many more also enjoyed these areas. We have many examples of obstacles and expansion in coastal zones that reduce and make free movement impossible. I would like to hear a further deepening of the Sanners and Right's policy, what they really think is going to be for us to rock the beach zone and that there should be free movement for everyone, just as he now wants to protect mountains, valleys and running watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e651	Let me first thank you for the introductory and acknowledgment words of the representative, Torny Pedersen. It is true that the right is concerned with protecting both nature and watercourses for future generations, although I recognise that in this area, too, there is a need to balance different considerations. We haven't said an absolute no to any expansion, but we say that we give it to take care of watercourses for the future priority. On the issue of access to the beach area, there is also a question of weighing different considerations. There is a balance between private property and all-man rights, and it is clear that the Right as a conservative party is engaged in the exercise of private property rights. Traditionally, the Workers' Party has stood on the other side and been more concerned with what is defined as social views, and therefore one has also been willing to go in with expropriation. We are committed to trying to mitigate the conflict between the rights of all persons and private property. That's why we've gone in to increase the amount of funding to secure open-air areas along the coast. We have not received the Workers' Party there, although we register that we have now carried out a reverse operation in the budget, and that promises well. This promises good for further cooperation. That is why we propose to use large parts of the property of the Defence that are offered for sale to open-air areas. But what we can't be on is the state coercion and override that you're now adding up to. It must be trusted that local elected representatives will find good solutions. There are many examples of coastal paths being established in cooperation between the municipality and private owners. There, I believe that the local rapporteur is better able to find such solutions than a government council in Oslo – with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e658	It is almost such that the representative Sanner has lighted with light and light to try to find something to disagree with the Progress Party in terms of wild game and that problem there. We don't want you to just have a farming industry and let the wild game sail its own sea. Here it is about interaction, and I think the representative Sanner should be aware of that. At least he is aware that the Progress Party is the party which grants the most funds for liming in the budget. What we warn against is following the decision of the Rieber-Mohn Committee to implement a series of measures that will hit the farming industry. It is a fact that wild breeds have been growing rapidly for some years. It has entered the coast, and a lot of salmon has been taken. It is also a fact that from writing the setting in our day to today, new research has been carried out in the field that shows that the wild axle trunk is much more robust, and that salmonnus comes not only from farming facilities, but also from the wild. My question to the representative Sanner is: Has he taken over the new research results, and is he at all aware that they are available?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e667	I can assure the representative of Korsberg that right after best efforts are being made to keep up-to-date with the research available. That is also the reason why we have given our agreement to the Kyoto agreement, as an example, because the majority who point out that man-made climate emissions can contribute to climate change. So if the Progress Party had been equally concerned with the research results also on climate change, I think we could agree. But let me first say that I'm not just looking with light and light to find differences between the Right and Advance Party in environmental policy. I also know that there are some similarities. Let me remind the centre parties that the centre also allied itself with the Progress Party in the 1999 budget, and we also agreed on the Ministry of the Environment's budget. It wasn't that hard. I believe that both the representative John Dale and the representative Gunnar Kvassheim can confirm that the Right, the Progress Party and the Centre parties had little difficulty in agreeing on the Ministry of the Environment's budget. I think we negotiated that budget for half an hour, while we know that the center and the Workers' Party lasted an hour after hour to try to agree on less sums. The Centre, the Right and the Advance Party were able to agree on that budget. Otherwise, I would like to say that the Right does not agree with the Rieber-Mohn Committee's setting as it exists, but we say that the principle of national salmon fjords and salmon fjords is our end. And then we have to go into a discussion about which national salmon fjords are to be weighed and how strongly it should be regulated. We are not willing to choose either wild salmon or salmon farming. We believe that this has to be able to be combined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e676	There is a strange view of democracy, Mr Sanner, in his speech. His philosophy is that once you have lost one thing, you should give up the fight even if you mean something else. It will mean that the Right must cancel large parts of its program before it has been adopted, because many of the areas that they say we are fighting over have been taken up in the Storting and voted down. It will be many years before gas power plants arrive in Norway. And I can promise that the Left and the Center parties will do everything we can to make it when they're built the clean solution, with the forward-looking technology. The right has never been a driver of Norwegian environmental policy. They are not involved in dealing with this matter either. And I say again, it's sad to note that in the Right one must either be in the Youth Organisation or be a retired person to be offensive in environmental policy. When the Right says they want a modern environmental policy, they basically fail. For the main thrust of a modern environmental policy, the use of market forces is to seek a tax shift, such as: Willoch is in charge, but as the Right here in the house is shooting like the plague. Why won't the Right don't use the market forces – make it more expensive to pollute and waste, and make it cheaper to have people in work? So a question related to what has been said about watercourse protection. It was so uplifting, but we know that Jan Tore Sanner has previously suffered defeat in his group. Does the wording that now stands in the programme mean that the decision on Upper Otta on which the Right was involved should really have been taken? And does what is now in the program mean that the Right, when the next major hydropower thing – the Sauda expansion, which equals two Alta power plants – comes to the Stortinget, will vote for the protection solution that now has a majority in Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e693	The representative of Kvassheim thought that either you had to be a member of the Young Right Party or you had to be a retired party to be involved in environmental protection. Personally, I am no longer active in the Young Right, and have still not become a retired person. The same is true of my colleague, and I can reassure the representative of Kvassheim that we are both very concerned about environmental protection. This shows the current settings. In fact, the Right Party, the Centre Party, and the Workers' Party are united on the most important issues. The questions raised by the representative Kvassheim and others from the centre parties relate to matters that are largely of the past. And that's where I appeal to the center parties: Can't you now let the gun and tackle the challenges in the future, instead of asking for rehab and new rounds of things you've lost? Yes, we believe that we should use the market in the service of the environment. Yes, we believe that we need to stimulate the companies of more environmentally friendly behaviour. But something has happened in business as well! In the past, it was true that industry saw a great deal of new burdens, environmental taxes and being environmentally friendly as a cost. Today, we see that a large part of the business world is actually ahead, that we are betting on new technology, that we are betting on research and that we are committed to being environmentally friendly because – and that is also the Left's concern, I know – we will win the competition in the future. But then we have to make sure that we don't push down business with so much taxes and taxes that they can't actually afford to bet on research and new technology. Maybe we can turn it around: rather than making it much more expensive to be environmentally hostile, we can make it cheaper to be environmentally friendly. Instead of having environmental taxes, we might have environmental tax exemptions! It's in line with Right's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e703	Today's debate is based on two documents: a communication from the Bondevik government and a supplement written by the new government. It explains that the configuration of the committee is characterized by solid plurality on almost all important points. In this way, the centre party can rejoice that they have once again gained a great impact, this time by the fact that the new government has largely based its environmental policy on the previous government. But something's creeping anyway. I'm referring to two points that both illustrate the distance between words and action, a theme the case manager was very busy with. As you know, the state of the environment message in the kingdom should help develop environmental action plans and action plans in the various sectors. That's the sum of all that's going on, which can tell us something about how environmental policy is. And so, just before this debate, the government put forward the National Transport Plan. Of course, the document contains positive wordings about big cities and public transport, but the words communicate few realities; they are ritual. That there is reason to believe the situation is documented in the state budget, for there the government proposes measures that make it relatively cheaper to use cars and aircraft. It cannot be easy to be a Minister for the Environment when official policies make shameful, well-meaning proclamations about public transport. The second point is also hard. It is problematic that the Government and the bulk of the population, knowing that the Kyoto agreement prohibits Norway from increasing emissions of greenhouse gases by more than 1 pst. above the 1990 level, opens up to measures that exacerbate the situation, making the challenge more difficult to reach at home. Additional calculations may be made at 17,5 million tonnes of greenhouse gases if the gas power plants are realised. The conversion of natural force into its emission path is a bad sign, albeit not politically surprising. Right there is a fact that the environmental policy opposition cannot rock, at least not in the short term. Our task now is to focus on what can be followed by the decisions that have been made. For example, we point to the need for comprehensive responses, such as: One-off, alternative forms of energy, the use of gas for heating and transport and the use of public transport. This needs a reminder because, in the submission to the State budget, it is not taken into account that Kyoto is at the door. I thought it was obvious that the changes had to be started before the same thing happened. When Norway has to comply with the Kyoto Protocol in a few years' time, it is obvious that heavy burdens will be imposed on society. Some sectors will make the noise harder than others. It applies to the power-intensive industry, the waste industry and transport. Some states get a greater share of the burden than others. This applies, for example: Hordaland and Telemark. We know this. It should be rapidly negotiated that tough national measures must be implemented and that they will be reversed, irrespective of the national and international quota systems that will eventually be put in place. I listened to the Minister for the Environment in the persuasion debate to assure us that the Stortingen will have action plans discussed in ample detail. Well, the question is, when will it happen? In the committee setting, the government has requested to display its cards in the next state of the environment message in the kingdom, and the comment is followed up by a proposal for a decision. The main idea of St.meld. No 8 is that all sectors of society should take responsibility for the environment. It's an old and still as good idea. In this context, environmental protection ministers, regardless of batch colour, have an important driving role. And the fulfillment of the Kyoto agreement can become a catalyst, a mechanism that paves the way for extensive cross-sectoral cooperation. The government should seize this matter quickly, so that as soon as we can see clear outlines of the national measures that need to be implemented, the next time we discuss the state report. St.meld. No 8, supplemented by additional information from the government of Stoltenberg, presents a material that provides a fairly comprehensive picture of Norwegian environmental policy. It is easy and necessary to point to problematic aspects of this policy, and issues of environmental policy may be raised over time. But the government can also register connection to some of its suggestions. It is so good that the administration of the wild salmon strains has led to a closer realization. It is now clear that a system of national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords will be established. It is also good that the new government follows up the proposal in St.meld. No 8 on new objectives for environmental protection in the polar regions by creating Svalbard as one of the best wilderness areas in the world. An independent environmental policy assessment underpins this policy, with a high signal effect on the entire Arctic region. It is not at least where the north pulse is drawn when the health status of the Earth environment is measured.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e721	I will not address the question of gas power plants. Now I haven't been on the Storting, I've only been here for seven years, and for five of the seven years we've been discussing gas power plants, so I'm not going to do that right now. I'm going to ask a question about the relationship of the Central Party to more traditional nature protection, because the Central Party has traditionally been concerned with protecting wild nature, and has shown it through its decisions in relation to the shooting grounds of the East, the Upper Otta, and in many other cases. But protecting the predators, which is a natural part of this nature, is against the politics of the Center Party. The question is, where is the whole nature protection policy? On the part of the Workers' Party, we have driven national parks, landscape protection areas and reinforced coniferous forest protection. The centre party has agreed to most of this, and has been concerned with nature protection. But where is the whole of the Central Party's nature protection policy as regards the protection of wild animals? What are we going to do with wild nature when animals that naturally belong there are not allowed to be there?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e730	The representative Bent Hegna now informs us that he has been our participant in the debate on gas power plants for nearly seven years, and that is right. This is certainly not a debate on gas power plants, but a debate on national and international climate policy, which is a much bigger and more important issue. There is a debate that will continue for several years, and we see that we still need to be looking for new solutions in order to implement a proper and responsible climate policy. So the representative asked me what kind of holistic thinking underpins our view of man and nature. I have to try to answer as simple as possible here in a line. Man is a part of nature. Man must live in nature, and Norway is one of the countries where man exists everywhere. The main challenge for us is not to get out of this nature, but to understand that we have to behave in such a way that we show due respect for other creatures in this great context. It may be problematic enough. Our line is not primarily through a comprehensive peace policy to prohibit human access to this nature. The master line goes in a different direction. And as I said, we need to become more aware of how we, as responsible people, should behave in nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e737	The representative of the Central Party said that the spokesperson was concerned about this with words and actions, that one does it a win, a sympathizer to make it a means of budgeting the policy one wants to stand for. It seems to me that the Center Party has already played away one of the cards it has in relation to the Workers' Party when it comes to the environment. In June of this year, the Central Party took note of this setting, which reads: ‘...there is also a need to focus to a greater extent on increasing the proportion of collective travellers in order to reduce car use, and to reduce road freight and goods transport on routes where possible.’ So now the Central Party's tenants have traveled the country and the beach around and told us to lower the fuel tax, lower the diesel tax. Then this is with words and actions. There is no consistency between entering for reduced car use and reduced road transport and reducing the price of petrol. Well, then one increases the car usage. That logic also knows the Center Party. So the center part is willing to spend $2 billion on the car list instead of spending $2 billion on important environmental measures, for example. halve the price of the bus ticket. It would have been something. So the question for Dale's representative is: is reduced petrol prices and diesel taxes an important climate action, on which the representative was so concerned to process?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e753	It may seem obvious that high petrol taxes and high taxes on diesel will reduce the use of cars and lower the level of transport, and that one will thus be able to have a lucky climate policy. It might seem like this. But this context is not ready to be deleted. In certain cases, and especially if the charges are too high, they will be perceived as a tax, and they will not have the influence of environmental policy demanded by the representative Langeland. So it's no shame to use such charges in an environmental policy context. However, I agree with the representative of Langeland that if the fees are lowered, we need to be careful not to use a car or, for example, a car. Aeroplanes, as I said in my post, are becoming relatively cheaper compared to the use of collective means of transport. So it's a task for us that is now recording unrest at this point, following up with measures for public transport, so that we don't get a shift in the wrong direction. And it's a challenge that we'll come back to when we're dealing with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e760	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e763	It is true, as many have pointed out, that in the vote there is broad political consensus in many important areas, but it is also raised beyond doubt that the centre parties and the SV have a clearly more ambitious environmental policy and that it is also reflected in this setting. The fact that we are dealing with this message now, linked to current environmental issues and the budget, shows that the main problem in Norwegian environmental policy is a lack of consistency between words and actions. The message states that we should go the right way; practical policies go the wrong way. Let's do some examples. It is important that the Communication states that the work on noise prevention should be strengthened and that a decision should be taken in this context. But at the same time, there is a strong paradox that there is now a national transport plan in Stortinget that does not have the noise problem as a priority task at all. It may be interesting to hear the Minister for the Environment’s explanation that a message now relates to a message that will give priority to an area that is completely neglected in a document where it belongs to the highest degree. We add to changed energy policies in a more environmentally friendly direction. At the same time, we cut the allocations for alternative energy and for an extra. That means that the queue of good projects that are rejected in all the counties of the country will increase, to local frustration in all the parties, including those that belong in the Right Party and the Workers' Party. We want less pollution, but we have a policy that makes the result more. So we get more of what we should have less of, and less of what we should have more of. So the main challenge is to make the difference between what we're saying we're going to do and what we're doing in practice. It is also illustrated in the gas power case. Our main concern is not that the gas power plants, which are highly polluting, are being built in a few years. Our main concern is that the strategy now adopted by the majority is a signal to those who are working on the clean solutions, that the fight is over in many ways. No CO2 emissions shall be required; there is no driving force behind the development of clean solutions. It's in that track, working on the clean solutions, we in the left are going to keep working. I also think it is alarming that what I thought there was a broad consensus, namely that in 2005 we were going to report on how far we had come to the Kyoto commitments, now just reduced to a kind of open message, a description of what a person is going to do to achieve the targets. This means that one has to achieve both the passage time and the end time at the same time. That's a bad way to have progress in a race. I find it very regrettable that the Workers' Party is joining forces with the Right and the Advance Party in a number of important environmental issues. They could have found solutions in the center if they wanted to. I think it is bold of the Workers' Party to assume that the environmental movement does not know the best of the environment, but that the Right Party and the Advance Party do. There are important themes that have come under the shadow of gas power in this matter. I'm sorry. An important decision on cultural memory funds is proposed in connection with this Communication and it is gratifying that it has a broad consensus. This communication also addresses the issues related to wild salmon, which we are given the opportunity to come back to the Stortingen to next year, but it is alarming that one of Jens Stoltenberg's environmental taboos here has been so embellished, as the case-rapporteur said earlier. It was a massive criticism of the central government when it came to progress in the field of wild game. What the Labour Party government is up to now is, in reality, much less urgent than the previous government had, and less ambitious than what the Rieber-Mohn Committee has. It remains to be seen what the Workers' Party believes about this important area. It is also important to point out that we have a common responsibility in some areas where we have not achieved the objectives. Among other things, it concerns coniferous protection, where it will take ten years to reach what has already been the subject of protection decisions. It makes new protection decisions more difficult, and that is where we have to take joint responsibility. The common responsibility for strengthening the environment also lies with the budget, and I can promise that the Left will help us to get a much more environmentally-offensive profile than the Workers' Party has set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e793	I think it was interesting to hear the representative of Kvassheim describe the central government's policy as much more ambitious than that of the Labour Party government, especially given that it is actually his own government documents that we are actually sitting and dealing with, and to which we have essentially joined, with the exception of one point. Instead of focusing on all the disagreements you try to construct in Norwegian environmental policy, I think you should illustrate the consensus, and that the centre parties choose one side. That means you have to choose whether to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. In particular, the right is not so bad at the overall issues of a number of issues — in the case of international negotiations, in the case of threats to nuclear safety in the north, etc. The Progress Party has in a way played itself beyond the sideline here, even in relation to doubting the importance of an international climate agreement. Then my question becomes the representative of Kvassheim: When will the Centre select a page of environmental policy that ensures that we have a broad national consensus on the main environmental challenges, which are climate issues? It is not about which letters were written when, to whom, how they were written and how they were handed over the Stortinget. We can disagree with the gas power case – that's okay. However, with regard to the role that Norway should play in international climate negotiations, there is broad consensus. As for how to deal with the greatest environmental threat to Norway, which is the threat to nuclear safety in the northern regions – illustrated by the submarine accident with ‘Cursk’, where there is therefore a nuclear submarine at the bottom of it – there is a broad consensus. And the only way to ensure broad cooperation here that follows up that policy is to cooperate with the Workers' Party. That's why my question becomes to the representative: if someone takes away the gas power issue, is the disagreement as big as it seems here? Is it not more important to find a national solution to the main climate negotiations, rather than to discuss relatively – at least in my view – rather small disadvantages?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e802	The answer is yes. The disagreement is very great, and it goes in far more areas than gas power. And in fact, it is the Workers' Party that has solved important environmental issues – these are important environmental issues – together with the Advance Party and the Right, not the Centre. That is the case in the case of Upper Otta, that is the case in the case of shooting fields, and that is the case in the case of key elements of climate policy: gas power. I think it's been possible to do this because inside the Workers' Party it's not a sufficient debate on environmental issues. In fact, for the past six months, the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party is the only opposition we haven't seen, so there's every reason to ask for the environmental opposition, so that it won't be possible for the Workers' Party to move forward as it does now, in cooperation with the Right Parties. But it's true that there are other important challenges that we can agree on, and that's solving the problems in the north. There is a good handle in the budget, and the vote on this point has the support of both the Labour Party and the Centre Parties. Unfortunately, there has been a main problem that the funds allocated have not been used. According to the report, 270 million are being treated. kr unused for environmental action on Kola. And we've been thinking that the ministry now needs to know whether the projects that one would use these funds can be realised, or whether the funds need to be deployed into other environmental services in the areas in question. So to this if it's not that the message really shows that we're pretty much in agreement. Well, in many areas it can work like this. Then one has to go to the practical policy to see that wanting a new energy policy does not necessarily mean that one will do so in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e811	I really didn't intend to take a line on the representative Kvassheim, but he was injured to make some obvious misunderstandings in his post, which I just want to correct. Firstly, it was said that no requirements should be imposed on gas power stations. That's wrong. There are demands. Strict requirements are imposed, in particular on the NOx side, but it is opened so that when the requirements are stricter than the equivalent best available technology, measures can be taken by third parties, which reduce emissions equivalent to the requirements set but in a cheaper way. In the case of CO2 emissions, the operators behind gas power stations know that on the date of entry into force of the Kyoto Agreement, they have to pay for the emissions from the first ‘drop’ – or what is called – of the CO2 emissions from the gas power plants. Everything has to be paid for by purchasing allowances either nationally or internationally, and that means that from the day we get the national and international allowance system in place, the gas power plants know they have to pay for the emissions. It's not going to be free, it's going to be expensive, and that means they can now use the time until they're in place, to get new technology, or else make sure that emissions go down. It is therefore wrong when it is claimed that there is no requirement. Secondly, I must correct the representative Kvassheim when he claims that it is the centre parties and the left that have been the drivers to bet on the environment in North-West Russia. Kvassheim knows that there is the Right that has been a driver all along, along with SV. We had to challenge the central government, both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Environmental Protection, repeatedly on those issues. I am pleased that there has now become a broader consensus in Stortinget that we need to get ahead of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e822	As for the last part of the line, I didn't have at all the formulations of the exposure to the north area that were the starting point for the Sanner line, so I'm going to ignore that note. I had hoped that Sanner would now take the floor to respond to that part of my line that he did not have time to respond to, namely, whether the quota decision was a decision that should not have been taken when one sees it in the light of the new Right Programme, and whether the vision of democracy that he set out to believe that we should give up the fight for gas power plants, also means that the Right should cancel the major parts of its policy that have been voted down here in the Chamber. In the case of gas power plants, there is no requirement for CO2 clean-up. It's clear for emissions. This means that the environments that are now working to find clean solutions feel that it will be pointless to go further because there are so many benefits to the highly polluting alternatives. We're talking about a height competition without a list, and then, as you know, everyone can come over. Taking on seriously the Kyoto commitments, which consist of reducing emissions, will significantly increase them before a reduction begins, as the gas power plants will do, lead to increased pain and increased problems for other industries, for the transport sector, etc., and those costs are not made visible so far from the Government, nor from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e833	The left's representative was concerned about something that I was also concerned about in my post, that we should do what we say, and we must do the same. Among other things, we are aware that there is great confusion among the voters if one is constantly saying that one should do something that is not done. So in his article, Kvassheim also stressed that the left wants less pollution. It was also noted in a reply that a desire for market forces to prevail more strongly in order to reduce pollution, i.e. the principle underlying green taxes, which the Left and the SV have agreed on. Obviously, if you follow the principles that you set up from the left-hand side, that's very good. But what's happening is that the center part is now saying that the petrol and diesel are going to get cheaper. If you think like one from the Left that you have to do in relation to green taxes, you have to choose that this will lead to an increase in car use, an increase in road freight transport and thus a greater environmental problem. This is how market forces work, as I understand the Left – that is, a poorer environmental policy. The question to the Left is: is it green tax policy if one goes in to reduce petrol and diesel taxes? Question no. 2: Is it any longer reasonable that the Left joins with the SV and stands firmly in relation to the bulldozers in the transport industry, saying no, the two billions that the Labour Party and probably the majority here will hand over to environmentally polluting measures in the transport sector, will we not be on? Would it not be better for the Left to agree to spend $2 billion on collective services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e844	There has become a main theme in this debate that there is no match between what one says one will do and what one does. The main problem is that in political work they are only told what they will do, because they are positioned so that they are on the sideline of Norwegian policy. That means they play a little bit of an important role in the environment. Most recently during the debate on the throne, we saw that it is the center parties that form the vital part of the environmental opposition that is close to having power in Norwegian politics. Now SV has got the government they want. SV is the Labour Party parliamentary backyard. And then we're in the situation that once SV has got the government they want, there's so much negative happening on the environmental side that they want the center to help clean up. It's the wrong strategy. We must strive to get a government that takes the environment more seriously, and in that main question, SV is not ready to conclude. So to this with petrol. What I have said, and which is also the clear position of the Left, is that the link between fuel charging and less public transport is unacceptable. What I have opened up in some contexts is a moderate adjustment of the fees. The starting point is that one is clearly above the level of fees adopted in the budget for the current year. And it was actually such that the fee level in the current budget also got SV's approval. There was no proposal to increase charges beyond the level of the year’s budget, which has now suddenly become totally intolerable. We want to stand firm at work to get more public transport in the cities. That is why we are open to road pricing and many other measures that constitute a comprehensive policy. But it's important that there's a legitimacy in environmental taxes that makes people hang out, and that's what I think Left is pretty close.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e857	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e860	I want to give some consideration to the challenges we face in the field of environmental protection over time. I see four main challenges: biodiversity reduction, as you can see. There is an increased concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. It is the spread of health and environmental hazardous chemicals, and it is not least the environmental and nuclear threat in the north. The consequence is that this affects human life and health very negatively, and overall, it is a threat to the life base of the earth. However, environmental protection policy is also about facilitating access for people to natural and outdoor experiences and about how to take care of important cultural memories and our cultural environment. If we are to achieve results in environmental protection, we must work across sectors, across administrative levels, and each consumer must be given the opportunity to choose environmentally friendly solutions. But not least, the environmental challenges need to be seen globally. Land limits do not prevent contamination. Environmental problems therefore need to be addressed internationally. Norway has been and must continue to be an important driver of international environmental protection cooperation. Our main partners are now EU through EEA ECE cooperation on long-range air pollution UNEP on a global Convention on Environmental Pollutants OSPAR in relation to marine pollution We also see major environmental challenges in our neighbourhoods. We have major environmental challenges in our neighbouring country Russia. Here, as a rich Western country, we must show responsibility and also contribute financially. I am pleased with the promise that the Government is now making to the budgetary position. Nuclear safety in our neighbourhoods is important, as we have recently been reminded of. Another important international agreement in our environmental work is the Kyoto Protocol, which is now being followed up by negotiations in The Hague. We need to put in place a good international regulatory framework for the use of flexible mechanisms to ensure real emission reductions. We must, for all things, make the Hague Conference succeed in its negotiations, so that a sufficient number of countries will ratify the Kyoto Protocol. In addition to the Kyoto mechanisms, we will have a national allowance system in place. Such a system will be very important for national climate action. The government has announced that it will present a big message on the follow-up to the Committee's position in the spring of 2001. Furthermore, the Gothenburg Protocol on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution is important. A proposal on ratification is now pending at Stortinget. It covers SO2, NOx, ammonia and volatile organic compounds. Areas of acidification damage have been reduced in Norway in recent years, yet we have to note that in 7-8 pst. of our area is the damage over the tolerance limit. The Kyoto Agreement and the Gothenburg Protocol are two important examples of international environmental protection work in which we can deal with these international emissions. I would also like to mention the problem of waste. The aim of the working party is that generated quantities of waste should be significantly less than economic growth. The amount of waste destined for final treatment needs to be reduced, and we need to take care of the special waste properly. The Committee on Energy and the Environment, in the position we are now considering today, asked the Government to look at waste policy. We will have the opportunity to discuss this in a broader context in the context of the next communication on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, which will be shortly. Finally, Mr Rovvilt is now very much on the agenda. The Labour Party has taken important initiatives in predatory policy. We are now discussing several proposals on the future issue of predators. We must now get the results of the policy that has been put in place. Then I hope that we will have constructive debates in the Grand Duchy on predators and that the same majority will stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e892	When we are going to debate the state of the kingdom's environment, I think I must also be allowed to say a few words. I have registered that it has been mentioned that the wild caught fish has been as good as it has not been for many years, and that is positive. I myself have been fishing salmon in the sea and have been suspended to eradicate the salmon – it was by line in its time. Then it was the driftnet fishermen who were blamed for eradicating the salmon, and then it was banned. Then we got a proposal to ban nets, because it also eradicated salmon, and then it was hook yarn that was allowed. Kilenot fishing was also limited, there should not be salmon left in the sea. And then all of a sudden it happens. So who you owe for having done so well with the salmon is hard to say. I don't think there's any one-sided answer to that. We have another problem on the coast, it's coastal. If it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, it is at least part of the game on how to manage it. There is now a project going on where you investigate this question. It turns out that coastal populations are three times as high as they first looked. The Marine Research Institute and Fisheries Research in Tromsø have years to go by before they can arrive at any safe stock estimates, and I don't think they can do it either. There is another area I would like to mention: maritime mapping, which is under the Ministry of the Environment. The field has been treated in a vote for all years. It's a shame that we're sailing on the coast for maps 140 years old. There the Committee should see to it that something is done. We have problems with an increasing population of predators, like wolves and bears. It has now become so wrong that they have started attacking people. We have several examples of that, so it's high time we re-treated predatory animal management, as suggested in a Document No. Eight proposals. Livestock, elk and other wildlife are being affected, and the possibility of outdoor activities is being undermined by the population. I mentioned this on several occasions with the shipping of paper. Large trucks with diesel engines that use 6-7 litres in a mile, carry paper all over the country, and transport paper to Sweden to burn it and provide free heat to the Swedes. We fold milk cartons, we do a lot of advertising to fold milk cartons. It costs millions of dollars. I have to ask the Minister for the Environment, what kind of gain do we have on this? What kind of gain do we get in dollars and cents, and what kind of gain is it for the environment when it gets rid of CO2 from trucks that just run at this piggy, instead of being able to burn it up at home? It's a bluff people get exposed to. It is a form of self-tankering with fees that are imposed, and we are experts on this in Norway. I have to mention a few words about global warming. It's not a single proof that the global warming we have is man-made. It's not proven to this day. And in the case of gas power plants: get the gas power plants up as fast as possible, and start and produce electricity! We have a problem that we can get off in winter if we don't get any more power. Is it better to burn the gas down in Europe and then buy the power back? The gas has to be burned anyway. And then we talk about old technology. No one builds engines, generators, with old technology; you build with the latest and best technology available at all times. It's no use talking about old technology – I haven't heard a more idiotic language. No one builds gas power plants with old technology, they build according to the most modern that exists. That's what they say! I'm going to commend the Environment Minister for being able to make reasonable decisions in the Dolmsundet, the carnage. Thank you for that. And then I have two more questions. How's the hunt for these wolf hybrids? Have you had these kids killed? And question No. tree: What are you going to do with the Sellafield plant, which dumps poison and pollution in the sea? What is done by the Ministry of the Environment? So here you have three questions from me: what kind of environmental benefit do we get by carrying this paper? How's the Wolfey Act? And, how's the Sellafield plant in England?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e918	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e921	The announcement of the ‘Government’s Environmental Protection Policy and the State of the State’ was presented by the Bondevik Government. The government adheres to the content of the message with the clarifications provided in our own additional message. Overall, these communications provide a good basis for environmental policy and show that there is a high degree of agreement on the future. Most European countries, the EU, the OECD and the UN have carried out the same analysis of the need for changes in environmental policy. In order to solve existing environmental problems and prevent new ones from emerging, environmental concerns need to be integrated into all sectors of society and at all levels of government. Here in Norway we are far ahead. The real integration of environmental considerations into all sectors of society shall be the cornerstone of environmental policy. The State of the Government's environmental protection policy and state of affairs and the sectoral environmental action plans are key instruments in this system. The environmental policy objectives promoted in the Communication shall underpin the work of both national, local and all sectors of society. This provides a basis for wide participation in environmental protection work. Furthermore, strengthening municipal environmental protection is a challenge. Local authorities need to be given more responsibility and authority in the field of the environment. This will give more power to the work on environmental protection and ensure local anchoring. Increased environmental responsibility for municipalities requires better dialogue and cooperation between municipalities and state authorities. The most serious environmental problems can only be solved through binding international cooperation. It is important to arrive at good international agreements on climate policy, long-range air pollution, loss of biodiversity and the spread of hazardous chemicals to health and the environment. The Government will work towards the widest possible participation and effective implementation mechanisms of the binding international agreements. The EU has come a long way in many areas of international environmental protection. Norway today has the main emphasis of its legislation in the field of pollution through the EEA Agreement. We have a close dialogue with the EU in all important areas, and the Government will further develop and intensify its work with the EU, both to influence the development of the acquis that Norway becomes part of, and to strengthen regional and global environmental cooperation. Norway invited to the informal Environment Ministerial meeting in Bergen in September, with participation both from developing countries and developed countries, in preparation for the decade marker for the Rio Conference, to be held in 2002. If we are to move on to addressing the global environmental challenges, we must also contribute to the development of the poor countries. Norway’s efforts to support developing countries in their efforts to solve environmental problems are important in this context. This autumn, the Government is working hard to obtain a result of the sixth meeting of the Parties to the UNFCCC, which may provide a basis for its entry into force. From the Norwegian point of view, the debate has focused both on establishing a good dialogue between industrialised countries, not least between the so-called umbrella group and EU countries, and on finding satisfactory solutions in those areas that are particularly important for developing countries. The government is also pursuing the national climate strategy adopted by the Stortinget. Compliance with Norway’s obligations under the Kyoto Protocol will be achieved through a combination of national measures and the use of the Kyoto mechanisms. The government intends to present a communication to the Storting on these issues in the spring of 2001. The Communication will also assess the instruments in the light of that part of the Kyoto Protocol, on demonstrable progress, which Hilde Frafjord Johnson has addressed. The government has now followed up the Storting decision of 9 March of this year relating to gas power plant emission permits. The Ministry of the Environment has, in its decision of 6 October, converted the terms of the emission permits granted for gas power plants under the Pollution Act, in line with the Stortinge’s decision. We have found that the benefits of natural force and others are significantly greater than the damage or disadvantages that the transformation will bring to the environment, and that the conditions for conversion under the Pollution Act are thus fulfilled. I explained this in the debate on the throne earlier this week. Let me now repeat that we have taken account of the law and policy in the process, and that the opinions of the law department form the basis for our decision. I have noted the Committee's positive reference to cultural memories and environments, and the proposal to set up a dedicated cultural memory fund. The government is working on a escalating plan for cultural memories. The first step in this work is presented in the 2001 budget, which proposes an increase of 20 million. kr. The Government will continue this work and the proposal for a dedicated cultural memory fund will be followed up in this context. The setting of the Culture Memory Committee, which is due by the end of next year, will also be an important part of strengthening cultural memory protection. I'm glad that the Storting wants to strengthen the efforts to preserve the wild salmon populations, in line with the government's policy. As part of this strengthening, we have proposed to increase the allocation for wild game purposes in the 2001 budget. In particular, the government will give priority to developing a concrete proposal for national salmon watercourses and salmon fjords. Such a scheme will be important not only for the wild species but also for the farming industry, and a proposal will be submitted to the Stortinget. Otherwise, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee's members expect the National Action Plan on Biodiversity to give concrete expression to the increased efforts in the field and to strengthen national efforts. I intend to present the action plan as a communication to the Stortinget during the spring of 2001. For the treatment of St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97 asked the Government to submit a communication on waste policy, source sorting and recycling. Such a review is included as an integral part of St.melding. No 8, which we are dealing with today. I have noticed that the Stortinget in its position is asking for a broader review of some themes, and that the Government is promptly, and in a suitable way, presenting a case to the Stortinget on waste policy, source sorting and recycling. I will come back to this in the autumn's communication on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state. Noise causes significant health problems, especially in cities and agglomerations. The Committee points to the need to strengthen noise prevention. I agree with this. Road traffic is the dominant source of noise. In the National Transport Plan Communication, the Government explains how the work on reducing road traffic noise will be followed up. Action in the field of noise will also be followed up in forthcoming communications on the Government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. The government sees it as very important to strengthen open-air policy, as the Committee also points out in the resolution. The rights of all persons in the coastal zone are an important aspect of this. I will return to the continuation of this policy in a big message on outdoor life, which I intend to present in the spring of 2001. This Communication will also address the use of the Defence properties for outdoor purposes, based on the cooperation between defence and environmental authorities. I see the outdoor communication as a very good opportunity to follow up the proposal made by the representative Jan Tore Sanner in this debate. All in all, I think this debate shows that we have a good basis for further work in the field of environmental policy. Today's attitude gives direction to the policy that the Government is pursuing, and that the Storting will have a rich opportunity to come back to, as I have explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e965	At the beginning of their speech, the Council of State said that the municipalities would have more responsibility. As I mentioned in my main post, we in the Progress Party are deeply concerned about the signals about new state directives and laws on the so-called beach area issue. It is important to be aware that many coastal municipalities have found good solutions to ensure the rights of all, in close and good cooperation with the landowners. The vast majority of people living in the beach zone have had their homes and properties for decades or generations, and they've been spinning and saving through a long life to buy these homes. Politicians and bureaucrats who weaken their rights thus interfere with the lives of ordinary people. Will the Council of State in this field give municipalities increased responsibilities? And what will the Council of State do to strengthen private ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e979	I am very pleased with the strong support for the work being done to ensure better public access to open air areas, especially in the coastal zone. The policy of getting this done must have a lot of angles of incidence. First of all, it is important to tighten up the law we already have, in order to prevent the beach zone from being rebuilt further. Secondly, we need to meet this with positive instruments, by moving on to the creation of archipelago parks, by enabling the state to contribute more actively to the purchase of some areas that can be ensured for the public in the future. The defence has a number of such properties that could be suitable, and close cooperation is already in progress between the defence authorities and environmental authorities to follow up this work. However, with regard to the law on construction in the 100-metre zone and in particular the freedom of exemption, it is a fact that the municipalities have not done the job for which our law provides. A number of exemptions have also been granted in recent years that have led to strong privatisation in the beach zone, for which many of us are very concerned. Nothing will please me more than if the municipalities themselves now tighten their practices. I've traveled a lot around the municipalities and talked to people about this. Many municipal politicians want to continue their practice of granting exemptions and will address the problems. Others say it may be an idea that the state takes over this part of the policy. I have asked for reports from the municipalities to show their practice in this area. In this context, the Government will assess how the responsibility for ensuring our building legislation in the beach zone can be followed up in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e988	In a reply to the main figure of the Workers' Party Pedersen, I quoted Article 3.2 of the Kyoto Protocol that each country included in Annex I should have made demonstrable progress in fulfilling its obligations by 2005, i.e. not by 2008-2012, but 2005. In reply to me on 28 September, the Minister for the Environment said that she would use a ‘wide interpretation’ of the term ‘demonstratible progress’. What does that mean? Does this mean that the Minister for the Environment will interpret himself away from the obligation? This Article cannot be read in any other way than by means of implementing measures that ensure ‘demonstratable progress’ in meeting the climate obligation we have by 2005. And with the 30 pst. the increase we can face, and a target of only 1 pst, must mean significant cut in emissions within a short time. What new measures will therefore be taken by the Minister for the Environment to achieve this? And since the Kyoto quota system is only going to be a supplement to Article 6, I want to hear what other measures the Minister for the Environment is going to take. I noticed that she was notifying a big message, but she would probably be able to say something about the measures that would lie there. I would like to ask that this Storing Communication also contain a plan of action to meet this part of the Norwegian commitments, not just an assessment of how we are in relation to that commitment. In other words, will the Labour Party support the proposal that the Centre parties have distributed in the Chamber? I think it would be desirable to get an answer to whether the representative Torny Pedersen's response to me is adequate for the views of the workers' party government. If that is the case, I will be concerned about the commitments we are facing in the future. The Council of State said that the view of the Legal Service was based on the consideration of the gas-electricity issue and the conversion of the emissions permit. What is the similarity between ‘most likely’, as the Ministry of the Environment says, and the Legal Department’s view on ‘high level of safety’, legal and actual? What's the similarity? We want an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e999	To take the last one first. ‘Most likely’, as we use the expression in the case, is in line with the legal department’s assessment of the basis for the law to be used for the right to convert. So it's the same thing. I want to spend the time talking about the Kyoto Protocol, and will point out that when Hilde Frafjord Johnson points to an answer from my side in a letter and the use of the words 'wide interpretation', it is linked to an assessment of the international negotiating image regarding this part of the Kyoto Protocol right now. And there might be reason to recall that, because this part of the Kyoto Protocol has not yet been international negotiations on the interpretation of it. When I use the term 'wide interpretation' of this, it's precisely because we take this part of the Kyoto agreement seriously and want to go into it. We want to go into it in our national strategy, and we want to put a concrete interpretation of this into the future negotiations. But I think it was natural to point out the status of this part of the Kyoto Protocol in terms of international negotiations. Of course, we should follow the National Climate Strategy of the Storting. This means that in our communication we will take to heart what has been a public investigation and a large consultation of, that is, a quota system as part of the commitments. Such an allowance system may be included in our law before the Kyoto obligation begins in 2008. Such a system could be in place in 2005, which is why we have pointed to the link between this type of mechanism and further national measures. By setting a price for emission allowances, we also get a cost-effective follow-up of national measures, which can be made cheaper than for the allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1008	The Council of State began its intervention in talking about the need to strengthen local environmental work. There will be big words without content when they are not followed up, and there will be big words without content when you see what is the government's policy in practice, namely that you want to use the power of the state to force the municipalities along the coast to pursue the policy that the government believes is right. It can beat both ways. The Council of State says that it is done to ensure the rights of all persons, but the last example is at Fornebu in the municipality of Bærum: there, the Council of State uses the power of the State to force the municipality to build more dwellings, which is at the expense of the environmental quality of the area, contrary to advice from the State's pollution authorities, which are on the side of the municipality of Bærum and believes that it is important to take care of environmental concerns. It sounds very hollow when you talk about the need to strengthen the local environmental work, when you want to use the power of the state to force the municipalities along the coast to secure the right of all people at the expense of private property. This shows that there is no need for confidence in local politicians. Nor do I feel reassured by what the Council of State says about the Right proposal to have a review of the properties of the Defence and see what can be used for outdoor areas. Right wants to drive it up to voting in Stortinget, because we want to put a strong lead in that work. We don't just want a review, but we actually believe that very many of the defence properties should be transferred to open-air areas. And then let me just refer to the framework conditions for the disposal of the defence properties, where that, among other things. states that disposal is to be based on the best economic result for the country. On such a basis, we have not been reassured in relation to securing open air areas for the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1015	I see a very great potential for more decisions for the municipalities of environmental policy in the time to come. I think this is absolutely necessary in order to achieve a stronger anchoring of environmental policy, and I think it will strengthen environmental policy. This does not mean that we should not have national guidelines for that policy, nor does it mean that the state should indicate its participation in important environmental issues in all areas. When it comes to the Fornebu case, I have to say that I don't think it's the environment that suffers most from the decision we've made. On the other hand, it might be that we get a little more social housing right in that area. But then to the beach zone problem. There is no doubt that a major effort has been made to assess how the properties of the defence can be used for environmental purposes. Over several years, there has been cooperation between the defence authorities and environmental authorities in this respect. Earlier this year, there were 18 properties on the defence side – I have to make a small reservation about the number, but there were at least a number of properties – that were laid out for outdoor purposes, and several are standing on the stairs. There is a cooperation between the Defence and the Directorate for Nature Management. Of course, we will follow this work in a concrete way, because there are a number of properties that are naturally taken over for environmental purposes. Our follow-up to this is not about a description of what to do, it is about an active policy to allow us to use more of the defence properties in this context, and of course there will be close cooperation between the defence and environmental authorities. The government would like to come back to it, and we have come so far that we can do the best in the open-air message to be provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1022	SV is of the opinion that the Minister for the Environment is staying in a climate policy shed, among other things. because she proposes to charge the electricity charge to reduce electricity consumption, while proposing to reduce the petrol charge, with the consequence that we will have more traffic and more freight traffic. There is no logic in this, and therefore the Minister for the Environment has received a compass of SV, a well-used one, which can show the direction in which it should go in order to find the right environmental policy. My question when it comes to this is: Does the Minister for the Environment think that it is sensible to reduce the charges by 2 billion kroner, or does he think it makes more sense to use the two billion, for example. to halve the price of the bus ticket or to build the city railway on the North Jären – one of my heart things? The second question relates to the actual reduction of an additional/alternativerenewable energy due to the introduction of gas on land. Is it such that the Government is still maintaining the solution that they have had all the way, that it should build a gas power plant? If one is to bet on above all as a strategy in climate policy, then I must wonder. Now one has waited five to ten years for these gas plants. When the Minister for the Environment is quite aware that these gas power plants are not coming next year, and do we not know if they are coming at all, should we not then concentrate on finding other strategies? For example, I used to point out today an article in the future of the Nordic countries about Elkem A/S Salten, which actually saves two Beiarn extensions through an additional measure. Shouldn't the Minister for the Environment find out all these Beiarn projects and make sure it was a bet while waiting for the gas power plants that never came?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1031	I noticed that in the first article in Langeland today, he also pointed to points of light in the Labour Party’s policy – that was not the case primarily with environmental policy. He had a few local examples of good things, so we're probably going to use the compass together all of us here working on environmental policy. But to the issue of energy policy first. What we are now putting into the budget is a strengthening of the work on energy savings and the use of alternative energy and also an alternative use of gas in new areas that will contribute positively to environmental policy. It's a strengthening because we're now repackaging the entire energy policy, creating a new unit to which a fund should be attached. That's something the Storting will get back to. The problem so far has been that much of the energy savings work has not been effective. Now we're doing a reorganization of it. At the same time, we maintain many of the appropriations, and the state powers make us want a more or less equivalent level for next year. At the same time, we are increasing in natural gas, which must also be seen in the light of an energy policy that helps to reduce climate change. The increase in electricity charges must also be seen in that light. Investing in alternative renewable energy and energy saving will be more profitable. In the case of reduced petrol charges, I think I have to show that there is a broad political consensus that it was now necessary to make a small reduction in petrol charges because the price level, as a result of the oil price, had risen so high that it was not natural to keep it there. The fact that this is seen in the context of overall environmental policy and energy policy is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1042	The political party has for years programmed positive formulations on public transport. Such statements are also available in innumerable public documents. But really, evolution has gone the other way. Collective traffic appears in an increasingly less fortunate light. Public transport is today an environmental policy issue on the defensive, and can soon be seen as a symbol that environmental values in general are on the waving front. The status of public transport in the state budget and the transport plan is also not impressive, to put it diplomatically. But new opportunities will take place. I am thinking in particular about what needs to be done in the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement. The transport sector is legally at risk, it is completely clear, and certainly if gas power plants are built. But at all costs, public transport will have to be an important and necessary part of the bill. Is the Minister for the Environment in agreement with this approach, and will public transport be seen as a particularly important area of activity in the Government's announcement to the Stortinget in spring 2001?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1052	I agree with Mr Dale that it will be important for climate change emissions in the future that we have a development in the transport sector that goes from the use of private cars to more use of public transport. It's a development it's been working on for many years, and it's got to work on in the time that's coming. Therefore, there is a commitment to this in the national transport plan that Stortinget will have the opportunity to discuss for a short time. With regard to individual budgets, not one budget can be the whole answer in terms of public transport spending. This budget provides for an increase in VAT on a number of services, including on public transport, which are largely compensated for. Of course, the transport sector will also be an important area in which the Kyoto commitments will take effect. The transport sector, industry, gas power stations – all social sectors in Norway will have to contribute to the implementation of the commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. An assessment of which instruments are most appropriate in the future to reach that commitment will come back to us in the communication to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1061	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1066	The debate we have had today, and the debate on the languages of the throne, have gone along a number of defined broad lines that can be summed up in two or three directions. Firstly, both debates have been marked by the fact that the Labour Party and the Government have not had a particular desire to discuss the gas power issue in relation to the major climate challenges we have. On the contrary, it has tried to focus on other issues, which are of course important from an environmental point of view. Among other things, as a point two, efforts have been made to reduce and misrepresent the distance between the centre parties and the Workers' Party in environmental policy. That's wrong. The distance is large, and it's gotten bigger. It has grown in the wake of the draft budget presented, which illustrates that the consensus on the main lines that we have written together in this setting is not being followed up by the Government. The government is breaking down with the main challenges they have faced with the centre of the setting, through their budgets. It also confirms this debate today. There's a difference between the center and the Working Party. We have repeatedly tried to illustrate it in a number of individual cases where the Workers' Party has gone into alliances, among other things. with the Progress Party. The major environmental policy challenges that have come to this house have found the Workers' Party to be a majority with the Progress Party, not with the Centre. That is why it is actually wrong when several representatives of the Workers' Party say that it is between the Centre and the Workers' Party that the agreement is today. The principal lines are completely different. Thirdly, in 2005 we have focused on this debate and the debate on the throne. And the Council of State has today said that they expect by the deadline of 2005 that they will have a clear system. That's not the challenge. Article 3 of the Kyoto Agreement states that concrete measurable results should be demonstrated. What does that mean? This means in practice that Norway should be able to show concrete reductions in its emissions. The measures that the Government intends to take on this occasion have certainly not been shared with the Storting, even though we have tried several times to bring them forward. The representative, Torny Pedersen, said today in his answer to the challenge that they are doing a lot. What is a lot about meeting concrete challenges by 2005? Does the Government really take the deal seriously? Can we trust that the Workers' Party will follow the agreements to which Norway internationally commits? 2005 is a strategic year. There is reason to question what this year really represents for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1079	In addition to climate policy, preserving biodiversity is an important environmental policy objective. Therefore, Norway has acceded to international conventions on this issue. Taking care of endangered species and preserving biodiversity also require the care of natural areas that are very important to preserve this diversity. It's easy to talk about this in general terms. It's more difficult to do it in practice, but it's the practical issues that determine whether we achieve the goals and fulfil our obligations. Cross-sectoral approaches and cooperation are often needed to address the challenges. This proves to be difficult to achieve in practical cases, especially when it comes to environmental sins. An acute example is the bird reserve with Ramsar status at Tautra in the North Trøndelag. If the government gets what it wants in this case, it will be presented as a school example of how the environment loses. In the fight for road strike for the island of Tautra almost 30 years ago, the cheapest solution was chosen, molo. This flooding stopped the flow of the fjord, and predators came out on the island. Thus the bird population is in strong return. In order to save the bird reserve, the pier must be opened and the bridge built. However, cooperation between environmental protection authorities, the road sector and the county council is proving very difficult to finance the bridge. Thus the birds have become a throwing ball between politicians, bureaucrats and the money bags. In the State budget, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in consultation, concludes that the project is becoming too expensive and being scrapped. Thus, the Ramsar status of Tautra as world-class bird reserve is at risk. It is my hope that if the political will is there, we will still be able to salvage the bird reserve at Tautra. My question to the Council of State is this: Does she agree that Tatra is a good example of how difficult it is to cooperate across sectoral boundaries and responsibilities to preserve biodiversity? Does the Minister for the Environment think that the bird reserve can maintain its Ramsar status when the bridge project is scrapped? What has the Minister for the Environment learned from the Tautra case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1090	The reason for today's debate lies in the big message about the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and the additional communication. This big message was presented by the central government, and it is of course with satisfaction that we belonging to these parties find that there is a broad connection to the main lines of that announcement. But that doesn't mean that the Christian People's Party is satisfied with the environmental policies of the working party government. Unfortunately, there are more examples of it going in the wrong direction. The budget, which we will deal with later in the autumn, contains several negative environmental policy signals. The government has, for example: not followed up on the preconditions for increasing the electricity tax, namely a strong stepping up of the appropriations for an additional and alternative energy. It is also a transport budget that is not exactly environmental policy good. We'll get back to these things. As you know, the government has recently taken a decision on the conversion of emissions requests for gas power plants in the West. This is a fresh decision, it is natural that it is being discussed today in connection with this vote. The main issue when we discussed this in March was whether one could grant such emission permits without weakening the pollution law. Here before the summer, there were slightly different signals from the Council of State, on the one hand, that there was no need to weaken the pollution law, and on the other hand, in a letter that it could only be determined by specific treatment of the emission permit. So now the emission permit has been granted, the specific treatment has been done. But why would the State Council not allow the SFT, which administers the pollution law, to assess whether or not the new emission permits are within the legal framework of the law – this is the main issue, which actually triggered the government change in March? Have you been afraid to allow SFT to treat it? One of the main arguments of the Workers' Party to allow these polluting gas power stations is that it will lead to a reduction in emissions in other countries. This has been stated by the law department in ours, and it stated that there could be objections to granting such an emission permit under the pollution law. If that were to happen, there had to be a high level of certainty, legal and actual, in order for such emission reductions to take place in other countries. But that concept has not been used by the government when they have now given this authorisation, it just says that it must be considered the most likely that it will lead to reduced CO2 emissions in other countries. This is a completely different language usage. Now the council says it means the same thing, but why in the world has she used a completely different and much less term?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1101	I have said earlier in the debate that the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party is the only opposition that has not been visible in the party in the last six months. I expect the Council of State to support my desire for a stronger commitment from the environmental opposition in the Workers' Party. It could make the job easier for the Council of State. It has not been easy to defend the Workers' Party's environmental profile in this house and elsewhere in the last few weeks. The management of alternative energy and energy is a good illustration of the comprehensive attitude of the Government, and it is alarming that the Eco-Councils are satisfied with what is in the budget. There is an actual decline in relation to the appropriations last year, and in connection with the processing of the energy message, the Workers' Party and the Centre agreed that it should be stepped up. The increase in the electricity charge would contribute to increased investment in alternative energy. The goal was to get $5 billion over ten years. It requires an annual provision of 500 million. kr, and it is far from the Government. My question to the Council of State is whether she stands by the ambitions she was on in the Energy Communication, or whether she is now satisfied with half of this level. The result of the level we now have is that large projects, such as: the handling of waste heat from the Slagentangen in Westfold cannot be realised. They're talking about projects that, in total, are equal to many of the controversial hydroelectric expansions we now have. It is probably the case that the gas power plant for which there is now a green light cannot be built for the next five to ten years. It's due to a lack of profitability. And in ten years it is expected that the EU will impose stricter environmental requirements, which will make it even more uncertain. Is it not the Council of State that there is an important point to use this waiting time to stimulate the pure solutions? The Council of State is expected to say that it stands at 20 million. kr for research into clean gas power solutions in the budget. That is correct, but it is minor in relation to the action plan that I had expected to come to promote the clean solutions. When the central government of ours presented a comprehensive action plan with elements that amounted to hundreds of millions, it was said that these were largely things that the Workers' Party would follow up and agree with. Will there be such an ambitious action plan aimed at contributing to the selection of clean gas power stations, not the highly polluting ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1116	Now, what I'm going to say is, a little bit said by this debate between the centre and the Labour Party, and it might have a little to do with future budgetary discussions. What makes me take the floor is what the council said in the line change here a short time ago, and what the council said in an interview on NRK Radio Thursday for exactly a week ago. In the reply, the Council of State stated that there was broad political consensus that fuel prices were so high that a reduction in the levy had to be made. Now there's a price/wage relationship. It has been demonstrated that in Norway, compared to the average wage for industrial workers, Norway will have the second lowest petrol prices in Europe after the tax reduction. Does the Council of State believe that it is the right environmental policy that we should have the second lowest fuel prices in Europe? Last Thursday morning the Minister for the Environment was interviewed by the NRK. She was confronted with VAT on public transport and reduced petrol prices, and she answered quite precisely – I heard that shipment several times – that we have to see the charges in a context. Then the Council of State pointed to an increase in the electricity charge. I see a link between increased collective tariffs and reduced petrol prices, and that the result of it is increasing motorism. That's a pretty neat context to see. I don't think that compensation will ever be 100 pst. The result is increased collective tariffs, we get reduced petrol prices. I see that context, but I'm not able to see the connection between public transport, motorism and electricity charges. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain to me how increased electricity charges can lead to better public transport and reduced driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1127	We have discussed the gas power issue a lot in the last few days, but I would still like to comment on some of the questions that Mr Bondevik raises in his article. With regard to the general freedom of conversion and my work on that matter, Bondevik refers to two approaches to this before the summer holiday. In our additional message to the big message we are handling today, I pointed out that the pollution law could be used to do about the emissions permits or to deal with the matter. At the same time, I showed in a letter – one of the 24 letters I have answered on this matter – that the procedure had to be subjected to a specific test. I therefore said that it was possible to use the pollution law, but the outcome in the individual case we had to do a specific legal test of. As we see it, there is no doubt that the CO2 condition can be transformed under this transformation decision. For that decision, we have taken into account the opinion of the Legal Service. The Legal Service has issued a general interpretation opinion and concludes that, under certain actual conditions, there will be access to a transformation. This is what has now been tried in our proceedings, as I explained that it was to be done in the big message that was submitted. And what we have found in the test is that it is most likely that total emissions in Northern Europe will decrease as a result of gas power plants. Then we are on a safe legal and environmental basis. That is why this is in line with the opinion of the Legal Service in the case. In the case of NOx emissions, there was a slightly different issue, because it was a principle decision as to whether access to so-called third-party solutions was available in order to achieve emission requirements. There, the law department pointed out in a new opinion that there was access to this under specific conditions. As to what kind of analysis we have used for our assessments in the case, we have used a number of analyses. SFTs' analyses in many areas have been used, as have SFTs and others' analyses in the past on CO2 emissions. But in the last round, we have asked for extra up-to-date analyses from the environments that are most suitable for doing these. And they're the ones who know energy market models.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1140	It was the representative Rahm who made me take the floor when he made a strong criticism of the transport plan that was submitted. I have to remind Rahm of what was done by the central government with the large additions that the center parties made in the previous round, and the implementation of them. Then we didn't see much of the beautiful promises. So until the case that turns again: the gas power plant. I think the center parties should now take inward that there is a solid majority who on several occasions have voted for this. They've said that we're going to have gas power plants in place, and we're going to make the right law decisions in relation to that. That's what the majority has said repeatedly. This carries to them the degrees of rematch after rematch. The majority have requested that gas power plants be assessed under the Pollution Act. We believed that the law was not an obstacle to changing the emissions permit. We got that right. The conversion has been carried out under the law. The majority have asked the Government to do so. The government has come back with this, and has notified it. This will be the environmental perspective of the majority, etc. Now recorded. The minority must accept that the Labour Party and the majority have included the international perspective on our environmental problems in their assessments. Then there will be a discussion about when a letter was sent from there to there, and whether a paragraph is correct or not. Of course we're going to stick to Norwegian law, of course we're going to do it. We've also received a confirmation that we're doing that. But we don't have to turn this hall into a courtroom. As I said earlier, here we are talking about politics, and there are political solutions here that the majority have arranged for and voted in favour of. Then I also think you have to put this ball in for a while and wait for the other investigations that will come next year, and the settings about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1149	With regard to the political assessment of whether gas power plants are desirable or not, the Progress Party – and has always been – is in line with the Labour Party and the Right in substance. But we have an additional problem in this gas power case. And the additional problem is, among other things: the one that Tore Nordtun now addressed, where we have a strong desire that the authorities also act in a legal way. It's not that a population can do exactly what it wants. Also a large number and a government are bound by following legal rules. The bigger picture has the advantage that if a rule of law is to prevent the majority of people from growing up, then the majority of people can change the law. But you have to change the law first before you do something that it might not be legal access to. About this, the Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice – not the Department, i.e. the Council of State, but the Department – said on 6 March: ‘Where the establishment of gas power plants results in significant emissions of greenhouse gases without leading to a similar reduction of emissions or environmental damage elsewhere, in the view of the Legal Department, there may be serious legal objections to the granting of emission permits under the pollution law....It will also have an impact on the safety — legal and factual — of the permit to provide environmental benefits elsewhere.’ So now the Council of State says that she's tried to make sure it's true that it's "legal and actual" going down somewhere else. She's probably saying "we" on behalf of the department. But the department is the council! It is the discretionary political assessment of the Council of State, and she is so careful that she says that this is ‘most likely’ to happen. It's something quite different than what the law department says. This is an invitation from the Government to environmental organisations that oppose gas power plants to go to the legal entity for a decision. It is not the Ministry of the Environment that hits it. It's the courts that meet. This is an invitation for this to be tried before the courts. My question to the Council of State is – and this was a topic for the Spring Party in a debate in May/June: Why in the world has the Government not provided the closest we come to a legally acceptable assessment? The Department of Law in the Ministry of Justice has made a point of this based on the facts of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1165	Some people are accused here of turning the main hall into a courtroom. No one's going to do it. This is actually about something as simple as we have to be sure that politicians follow the law. So we want to make sure that there is a proper treatment of this matter under the pollution law, and we actually have a full right to persecute, we actually have a duty to pursue this as long as there are different signals operating. There's no reason to rise above this, it's actually an important function for this hall. The second thing I would like to comment on is the statements of the Council of State that, on a secure basis – legally and in fact – she believes that one stands legally. The Council of State has not used ‘high level of security’, legal and factually, in its opinion. She has used "most likely". If you take the ice as a picture: If the ice is safe, it is safe. If it is most likely to be safe, it is not fully safe anymore. There's actually a certain material difference between these two expressions. Had it been completely safe, I believe that the Ministry of the Environment had said that it was completely safe and used exactly the wording that the Department of Justice has used. I think the government had decided anyway, and that you've taken a chance here. I don't think you should take that opportunity as a government, but it's the government's own responsibility. We're here to make sure the politicians follow the law. So point 3: the role of State pollution control. It's okay not to ask the SFT about international energy markets and their function. I fully understand that. But the SFT has the administrative responsibility for the pollution law, and they have a duty and a right under law to assess how the pollution law is complied with on a case-by-case basis. It's the overall body for the administration of this law. That's why we criticise that they seem – and I can't understand anything else from the statements of the Council of State – are excluded from this assessment, as they did in the previous round. We regret that, because we believe that the SFT has a very important role to play in this matter. And finally, this has to do with politics, absolutely not with jus. This is about policy, and it is about climate policy and the future of environmental policy. That is why we choose to pursue this matter, and we shall promise that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1185	This has to do with both politics and law. The policy in this is that the Progress Party wants to weaken the pollution law, and the central parties' relationship to this is that they do not want to build gas power plants. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that we need to discuss the law on these matters. To be quite clear: when I say ‘we’, I mean the Ministry of the Environment, and I mean, of course, me and my responsibility in that regard. I have tried this matter because it is my job. The role of the Legal Service is a general interpretation of the law and not a decision or review of individual cases. The Legal Service therefore does not express its opinion on the legality of decisions taken by other departments. The Department of Law gives its opinion on the general interpretation of the law. In this case, they have given two thorough interpretations and have been involved in the matter as far as their role is concerned, and I have of course relied on their decisions. They've made a general interpretation, which I've been up to in the past, and one relating to the NOx emissions, which is related to this third party solution. From this I just want to repeat that the law department has been fully consulted in the matter according to the role that they should have, and that their opinions form the basis for the decision that I have taken. There is no contradiction between what has been stated by the law department and this decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1196	It was the posts of the committee leader Tore Nordtun that made me take the floor again. He accuses there the center parties of constantly wanting to replay in the gas power case. Now it is well to say that if it had been possible through a rematch to stop these polluting gas plants, it would have been worth it for the environment. But now it's actually not what it's about in this game. We are aware that a solid majority here at Stortinget will have built these polluting gas power plants – I kept saying – at any cost and on death and life will have it through. But it is despite the opposition's duty to ensure that the matter is properly dealt with. That is what the debate is now about. I hope I'll say that soon. Then it remains as a rather amazing and striking fact that the Minister for the Environment has not, or for what reason, dared – I do not know – to draw the SFT, who actually administers the pollution law, into a concrete assessment of this new decision and the CO2 emission permit that has been granted. It will remain as a striking fact upon this matter that it will not. Finally, let me just say in this round: I understand very well that the Workers' Party prefers not to have any more debates about gas power plants. But I can't promise there won't be any more. It is an unpleasant environmental issue for the Workers' Party. It'll be hanging around. The construction of such a polluting gas power plant one day is also not safe. Unfortunately, if the environment is saved, it has not been the profits of the Workers' Party, but the financial interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1212	Tore Nordtun said, in the case of the law, whether the pollution law gave access to such a transformation decision as the Government has taken: this access is present. He referred to the assessment of the Ministry of the Environment and the Councils of the Environment. However, in this context, the Ministry of the Environment is not a judicial body which can decide with certainty whether access is available. The Minister for the Environment is a political member of a political government. The fact that she has that opinion, I accept, but it does not help to establish, as Nordtun did, that this access is present. It's just a court that can decide. But it is clear that the Storting does a lot without waiting for court decisions. What the Storting does when there is legal doubt is to obtain independent legal expertise's judgements, as far as general interpretation of the law is concerned, is the interpretation of the law. And as the Council of State now said, we have the interpretation of the law. But what is remarkable is that she has not followed up the interpretation of the law given by the law department – quote from the opinion of the law department of 6 March: ‘Furthermore, it will have a bearing on the legal and actual safety of the permit to provide environmental benefits elsewhere.’ This word ‘actual’ is something you can look at. And then what's the normal thing? Indeed, the normal thing for a government that will be on a safe basis in relation to Norwegian law is to obtain the assessment of the professional or trade union directorate or departmental body — in this context the State pollution control — of whether it is ‘actual’, so that it will provide environmental benefits elsewhere. I think so. I hope so. But I'm not such an expert and actually. Why, then, has the Ministry of the Environment not, if they consider that they are on safe ground in terms of ‘actual’, obtained a kind of ‘independent of the ministry’s evidence’? When they do not — in fact, they do not fit to do so — there can be no particular trust in the assessment of the facts by the Council of State, nor, when she acquires no independent legal expertise on the legal level, can any special emphasis be placed on the assessment by the Council of State. I find that the bulk of the population in this context does not go ahead with a good example of ensuring that Norwegian legislation is adhered to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1227	I have to say that the debate on gas power and the legality of the decisions that have been taken, once again takes a new turn, and in this context I fully share both Carl I. Hagen's reasoning and reasoning for once. I fully accept that the Workers' Party has intended at any cost to build a gas power plant. I accept that, as a consequence of it, the Labour Party finds that there is a need to amend the law and obtain a majority in the Stortinge to implement the necessary legislative changes. But I have to say that it is alarming when the representative, Tore Nordtun, says that we have been confirmed to comply with Norwegian law, and the Minister for the Environment, who is professionally responsible, next chooses to use as vague formulations as the Minister for the Environment does in this matter, in the light of the assessments made by the Department of Justice. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: Is it the case that, as Tore Nordtun says, we have been confirmed by Norwegian law, or is it the way to interpret the Minister for the Environment that we are most likely to stick to Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1232	In order to repeat what we have done in the matter: we have made a concrete review of the case and have reached a decision on the matter that is legally and environmentally sustainable, in the light of legal expertise and the judgements of the law department. We have also used all the available expertise and advice in the matter; we base a number of advice from the State pollution authorities on the matter; we have a number of advice from various other bodies. All of this together has given us the basis for the conclusion that is in line with the pollution law, and that is much discussed here in the last few days as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1250	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1269	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Mr Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4-7, by Hallgeir H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 8, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 9, from Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left Tore Nordtun has asked for the floor to explain the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1287	I would urge the Labour Party Group to vote against the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3 by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, So to proposal No. 8, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right. Since several departments are involved in such a case, I recommend that the Workers' Party's group vote against. As regards proposal No: 9, from Hilde Frafjord Johnson on behalf of the centre parties, I propose that the Workers' Party vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1292	I recommend the Right Group to vote against the proposals from the Advance Party, against the proposals from the SV and for the vote. As far as our own proposal is concerned, no. 8, we're going to maintain it. The right does not feel at ease with the signals coming from the Workers' Party during this debate and we want to put a priority on outdoors in the assessment to be carried out. So that proposal is maintained. With regard to the proposal from the centre parties, we agree that there must be a national follow-up. Nevertheless, when we are going to vote against this proposal, it is because this is a reference to a clause in the Kyoto Protocol that has not been finalised. In other words, it intervenes in a question of negotiation. We agree with the premises in the proposal on national follow-up, but I would appeal to the Council of State to come back to another context. So the conclusion is that we are voting against the proposals of the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1301	I call on the SV Group to vote against the Progress Party's proposals, on the proposal from the Centre Party and on the proposal from the Right. A similar suggestion also has SV looked at. Then I would like to ask that the proposal No. 4, 6 and 7 will be transmitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1308	I would urge the representatives of the centre parties to vote against proposal No. 1-3 of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 5, by the Socialist Left – the others have been converted into transmission proposals – and, for the proposal by the Right, that defence property be considered as open-air areas. As regards proposal No: 9, of course, we're behind it. Only a case-by-case information in this respect. The provision has been negotiated. That is the interpretation being negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1315	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and we are ready for voting. Then we're going to deal with the proposals. 4, 6 and 7, by the Socialist Left Party, which has been converted into a transmission proposal. Proposal No. 4 sounds in changed form: ‘It is recommended that the Government follow up the actions and strategies for future wild-type management provided by the Villaks Committee, including the proposals for 50 named national salmon rivers and 9 national salmon fjords.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is advised to draw up a proposal for a statutory obligation to comply with international agreements through national law and practice.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds in modified form: ‘The Government is advised to add a fourth national performance target to the reduction of radioactive pollution. The fourth national performance target shall be to establish a national landfill for spent nuclear fuel from the Norwegian test reactors.’;» The President proposes that the proposals be submitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 5, from the Socialist Left Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, in the context of the 2001 national budget, to propose a R & D levy on the production/feed volume of the farm. The revenue shall be allocated to a fund for which the Government shall draw up guidelines.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1350	Proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 3, from the Party of Advancement, shall be taken up for voting: Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government not to impose unilateral national environmental taxes which may impair the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to abolish unilateral national environmental taxes which impair the competitiveness of Norwegian industry.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work in international forums to establish its own International Environmental Special Court, under the auspices of the International Court of Justice in The Hague.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1376	Proposal No. 8, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit its own notification of large-scale investments in which the proposed defence properties are considered as open-air areas to the public. Such an assessment shall require priority for open-air purposes. The notification is requested at the same time as the submission of the long-term proposal to the Defence.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1390	Proposal No. 9, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the Left, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requires the Government to submit a plan for the actions that will be undertaken to comply with the Kyoto Protocol’s provision of Article 3pc. 2, to have made demonstrable progress in fulfilling their obligations by 2005. This plan must also review the possibilities for achieving Norway’s emissions obligation by 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-12.ana.ud71e1416	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
