ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e25	Ladies and gentlemen! From His Majesty the King, the President of the Stortinge today received the following message: ‘Dear President of the Grand Duchy. I am pleased to announce to the President of the United Kingdom and Norway’s Storting that, after seeking advice from the Prime Minister, and through him the Norwegian Government, I hereby consent to the engagement with Mette-Marit Tjessem Høiby, my dear son, Crown Prince Haakon. On behalf of the Presidency, the President will ask for permission to convey the Congratulations of the Storing to Your Majesty the King and the Queen, His Royal Highness The Crown Prince and his fiancée. The President will express his wish that the engagement that has been made should bring happiness and blessing to the young couple, to the Royal House and to our country. The President deems Storting's authorization to be granted. The representatives heard the announcement of the standing president. [[Summary in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e45	The President fully understands that there is now a need for some summation, but there are also some formalities to be carried out. From the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the 46th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, Part Two, in Paris, there is an application, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Grethe Fossli, Ingvald Godal and Hallgeir H. Langeland from 4 December to 6 December, of the representatives of Dag Danielsen, Odd Eriksen, Laila Kaland and Fridtjof Frank Gundersen from 4 December to 7 December and of the representative of Finn Kristian Marthinsen from 5 December to 7 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Åge TovanFor Buskerud County: Unni Hennum LieFor More and Romsdal County: Kjell Terje FevågFor Nordland County: Bears OlsenFor Oslo: Sissel DagsletFor Rogaland County: Ingrid FikaaFor Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen3. Åge Tovan and Kjell Terje Fevåg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Grethe Fossli and Laila Kaland respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e125	Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e137	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each and the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e148	The size is now part of the final consideration of a very important case for Kultur-Norway, namely the staging message about archives, libraries and museums, or the ABM message, which it has been called daily. The message was presented by the Bondevik government nearly a calendar year ago and is a perspective-oriented and ground-breaking document that should provide the most basis for optimism, both within the three sectors of archives, libraries and museums and far beyond. The main title of the cover already gives a clear description of what this message is about, namely ‘Sources of knowledge and experience’. You can become lyrical by less. In the sources that we're talking about, there's a lot of cultural treasures. It's about developing a framework to secure both the tracks that the past has left behind, and the new tracks that we're living now will follow us. Much of the old is hidden, forgotten, and not available. We have to fix that. As important as the need for each new generation to rediscover these values, it is equally important for each new generation to address the challenges that are constantly emerging. Perhaps the most important challenges we face today are linked to the development of ICT technology. New technologies open up new opportunities. Above all, it can be used to link archives, libraries and museums in networks. This opens an electronic door through which everyone in this country can go in and get knowledge and experience. It wasn't just me who got an aha experience when the committee visited Sogn and Fjordane in September and got a taste of some of this through the project the county archivist in this county has developed, namely Sognogfjordane.kulturnett.no. With a few clicks, we could get to know geography, find out which farm we wanted in the county, we could get to know this farm's history and the family's history, read important historical documents like American letters and the like that were kept on the farm. It's an incredible source transfer! This is just a beginning. This is a vision for the whole country and only tells of one of the many challenges that lie in this great field of cultural protection. The Committee has spent a lot of time on this communication, because it is worth it. The Committee has travelled domestically and abroad, visited very many institutions, heard many through hearings and discussions and had open channels for the main stakeholder organisations in the field, and has learned a lot above all. In particular, it has been an important objective to have stakeholder organisations. I note from the statements I have registered that the Committee's suspension has been well received. It also shows that the Committee has been united on the whole. This is very important, also in view of the follow-up of the coming years. The notification provided a significant increase in the appropriations for all three sectors of time to come. In addition to the large investments already planned, inter alia: extensive revitalisation of museums and new warehouse building at the National Library, proposes an increase in the operating appropriations for archives, libraries and museums totaling 414 million. in addition to the current level of appropriations over the next five years. A broad majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposed increase in funding and even reinforces the notification obligations on important points in view of the annual government budgets. Any future government – we have to expect that there may be more – will live up to these obligations. The only lot that has made certain reservations in respect of the financial bet is the Advance Party. The others have seen how necessary and essential it is to make a big promise to secure and pass on cultural heritage. It should just be missing when we can afford it! Archives, libraries and museums are intended to be coordinated in a digital network in order to create, together and more effectively, better services for the population. It's not a merger that someone's been afraid of. It has underlined both the ministry, organisations and committees. The three fields have specific characteristics that they should be able to develop further, and they have challenges in each of their areas that they need to have resources to solve. However, an overall coordination and competence body will be examined to coordinate developments in the three areas. All three shall participate as equivalent parties. The proposed body is intended to be a catalyst for better interaction between small and large units within all three sectors. In order to succeed in the important process of realising the ABM development, there are important problems that need to be solved. These are largely linked to the fact that archives, libraries and museums span the areas of several departments. For reasons of time, I will not say so much about it, but I refer to what is stated in the setting, because we have used a lot of words in addition to what the message says about the relationship with the offices outside the Ministry of Culture's remit. I also know that there are many other bodies outside this house that are concerned with the same issues, and it is important that they are addressed. Are you willing to take such a step, which is necessary in order to clean up this sector? I'm asking. The first step on the road is the establishment of a compensation scheme for the long-term lending activity. For natural and practical reasons, it should be managed by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research as the responsible department of the trade and research libraries. In this context, there has also been a discussion of the free principle. I also refer to the setting when it comes to this. There has been some disagreement at this point, but a significant majority of the Committee believes that there may be an opening to charge for these services. It is pointed out that there is also a need to demonstrate the need for a legislative change, in case it is relevant, to be made available. I want to clarify it. If there is a need to clean up the library area, there is also a similar problem in the museum area in the relationship between the university museums and the other museums, and like for the library area, I should just refer here to the setting. A crucial condition for the development of a coordinated ABM landscape is that the interconnection does not take place at the expense of upgrading in the various sectors. The Committee has made a strong emphasis on this. There are major challenges in all three areas. In the field of archives, they are partly linked to the work of ensuring that electronic archive material becomes technologically available afterwards. On the one hand, they are linked to the work of improving the conservation and dissemination of private and municipal archives. More jobs are needed. It is positive that the notification provides for the establishment of a support scheme for the protection and dissemination of private archives. In the museum area there are undoubtedly the most expensive tasks. It is urgent to establish a better structure in the different regions and districts linked to the national level. There are major challenges and expectations in terms of both building mass and object collections. The Committee points to the situation at several open-air museums and the eight technical and industrial cultural memories as being particularly precarious. In the museum area there are parallel processes with a background in a review of the entire Museums-Norway, led by Norwegian museum development. At the centre is the continuation of the REVITA plan proposed in the Nou 1996:7 museum survey, which runs for a time-limited but thorough upgrading of the sector. The notification outlines a number of necessary measures supported by a broad majority of the Committee. The issue of the introduction of a museum law has also been discussed in the Communication, but the conclusion is that work on this should not be started now. Although there may be good reasons why such a law should come, one does not see that it will be a proper priority now. The majority, all except the members of the Workers' Party, support this. In the field of cultural protection, there is not least an important responsibility on our part as a nation to document and disseminate the history of national minorities. This applies not least to the history of the group. The merger has recently provided interesting investigation material that shows the breadth and strength of their commitment to its important history. It is important to continue to give the Sami culture a legal place in the overall dissemination of the historical development lines in Norway. Similar documentation and preservation of the history of other minorities are also being worked on. This applies, inter alia, to: women, forest fins, and not least taters where there is a valuable department during establishment at the Glomdal Museum. These are specified in the setting. In the field of libraries, the challenges are not smaller. Investment in library buildings is needed in many municipalities. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is sorry that the earmarked support system for library facilities was terminated. The same thing also happened with the support of the book buses, which is a very valuable offer to the people of Utrant-Norway. Further training of staff is also needed in libraries, the vitalisation of the school library system, etc. We also agree that the time has come to review the obligation delivery law, as the ministry suggests, to see how it works after ten years. I see that time is running out of me. I have a lot more on my mind about the development of the National Library, the Peace Prize Centre, the art museum at Tullinløkka, etc. I'll get back to it in a later article. This is a large area, and it takes a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e197	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e200	First, I would like to commend the rapporteur for the work he has done. There is no doubt that the good attitude we have come up with is due to the thorough work he has done. But then Ola T. Lånke was involved with this with a museum law, and now rejected it. When the Government and the Storting are in favour of stepping up the museum sector, there is a recognition at the bottom, namely that this has been a vulnerable field, a fragmented field and a neglected field. It's a field that needs a status boost, a hedge of the museums as social institutions. For us, this is an argument for the museums to get a separate law equal to the archive field and the library field. We all agree that these areas, too, need to be upgraded, but at least with the Library Act, everyone is guaranteed a minimum of library services. I want to correct the case rapporteur on the description of the museum law, because SV proposes its own museum law, which you are familiar with, and in the long run we can imagine that this could be part of a general cultural law. The working party smells like a museum law, and I have registered that more people in the center are in favour of a cultural law. That is why I would like to ask the Christian People's Party why you do not want to be sure that this can at least be re-examined. Denmark, as you know, has a museum law with which you have good experience, and by giving a museum law, we say that the Stortinget considers this field to be so important that there is a need for extra protection. So the committee said we have to make sure that the prison libraries are safe. Only 44 pst. Of the settlement sites, library facilities are available, despite the fact that prison inmates use the library much more than the population otherwise. How will the Christian People's Party follow up the excellent remark to which they have joined, in later budgetary terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e213	I get started by regretting that I did not include SV in what I said about the proposal for museum law. That's something that can be overlooked in the hurry. In any case, SV was given the opportunity to say something about this, and I also expect them to come back to it. I'm not – and I don't think that Christian People's Party is – basically against a museum law. I guess there's a lot to talk about, because maybe we should have a museum law in line with the laws we have in the other areas, in both the archives and the libraries. When it does not seem to be an urgent task to start such a work, it is well linked to the fact that we do not have the great faith that such a law will have a special effect. It's like Valle's representative says, rather inconceivably this museum landscape. A lot has happened by chance, as the message says, and it's random maybe how much each museum gets in support, etc. I think it can be corrected in a different way through the process that we are now initiating with this message. There are so strong indications and suggestions for action in the Communication, which the Committee supports, that I have a great deal of optimism about clearing up this landscape. I have looked at the Danish Museum Act, and I think it looks very interesting. It could have been a good idea to have had one in Norway. But I see that the big message points to an argument, which I would like to stress, and that is that we have had a law in the library area without we can see that it has led to the library sector being allocated a greater amount of resources for that reason. And I think the same thing is going to be true about the museum area, that it's not given that it's going to happen. With regard to the prison libraries, probably the Christian People's Party will also help follow up on these, but we'll get back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e224	I would also like to thank Ola T. Loan for the work that has been done. It's been a long process. Some of us have only been part of him, while the representative Lånke has been part of everything. As those who have looked into the matter see, there is a broad deal about most of it. What surprises me is that a well-meaning man like Ola T. Lånker is not involved in maintaining the free principle of library services. It is right that there should be some data services and information analysis when the library tailor-made solutions, but examples used to us in the debate indicate that one does not have a clear understanding when it comes to paying and who is to pay. Then I want to ask, because it's pretty important for those who are going to administer this afterwards, to know what is the multiple here wants: what is a charge for? What kind of service? Should it be specific to certain recipient groups? I can add in a parentheses there that in England we were strongly advised not to separate who accepted the service. How much is a payment per person? device? Should there be full payment for the work being done? What is the potential of the multiples for this to give? And how will a person prevent this from leading to great inequality between municipalities? Because according to the library law, this is the municipality to determine. Will the majority then sit and see that there are major differences between municipalities, depending on how busy the municipalities are to access the library services free of charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e233	It surprises me to some extent that the Workers' Party makes such a large number of this with the free principle, not only because they have been behind the message, which makes a slight opening compared to making a payment for some services, but also because this may also limit the library offer for some, perhaps not least in District Norway. I would like to stress, and the whole committee has done so, that we are committed to the principle of free movement. That's what the committee does, and we're going to fight for that. But, it's a small but, there might be some special services that individuals or individual companies might think they would want to order from a library, and if these services – it's especially in the digital field that it might be relevant to collect information from different areas – are extensive and take a lot of time at the small public library it's talking about, out in the country maybe, then there has to be a freedom for that municipality to say that such very special services have to be paid for. This is done in other countries, and I think it would be right to give this option of exception in Norway. That's what this is about. That's the way we open up for payment in all other areas of cultural life. There is soon no other place to go and get things for free. In the field of libraries, it will still be, entirely in the case of books, and to a large extent also in the case of electronic services and other services, but except precisely those things that are described in detail in the setting. I think it would also be beneficial for the libraries if they could perform and say yes to such services. It would even increase the skills of employees to be allowed to participate in it. But it has to be financed, and the municipalities don't have the ability to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e242	The Progress Party will also thank and praise the representative Lånke for a very good work. The Progress Party, like the other parties, sees the importance of securing Norwegian traditions and Norwegian cultural heritage. We agree on this. The difference between the Progress Party and the other parties is that the Progress Party is not willing to promise as much money as the others, 414 million. In order to increase over five years, a significant increase in government investment in the field of culture has been outlined over the next ten years, with a total of 3 800 million. kr. I believe the representative Lånke that there is more money alone that is needed to care for this field, or there may be other things that are as important, as, among other things. that libraries are more self-confident about their home and their activities. In addition, has the representative Lånke assessed the extent to which this economic cultural promise will bind up the individual municipality and county, which already has very well-breathed crates, and that this could go beyond other services and offers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e249	It is hardly surprising to me that the representatives of Bredvold and the Progress Party will address this with the access to cultural protection, because it is precisely those who are holding back and who do not want to join in. They do not see the need to do a major upgrading of this field and the challenges posed by the 5000 sheltered buildings that stand and rot in the museums, represent, they do not look at all the items stored under poor storage conditions in non-target magazines, and all the challenges you face in the other areas, and will therefore not be included in this promise. I have to say that I suspect the Progress Party for having had a blindfold as they worked on this message, because they cannot have seen all the challenges that lie here, in what brilliant way they are described and how there is a greater need for action. The other parties have seen this – the Progress Party will not be involved. They write a few small comments that they believe in efficiency improvement as an opportunity to save resources. I don't believe in it, I don't think financial effort is the only thing – the representative Bredvold asked about it. It is clear that there are also a number of other instruments, such as networking, better access to technology, etc. So here it's not about economics, but it's about willingness to take a vow to save the cultural heritage from decay and so that it can be passed on both in our time and to new generations. It's not less than what it says. And I think every generation has to take up this challenge again, and we're taking it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e255	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e258	When Stortinget today has the ABM message for treatment, there are major and important aspects of Norwegian cultural policy to be discussed. The ABM message deals with archives, libraries and museums, that is, the social institutions that are supposed to take care of, manage and disseminate our common history and cultural heritage. It is precisely this common feature that treats these three areas as a whole. Altogether, these three cultural areas are surrounded by sources of information and knowledge that, through proper use, can enable us to put the present into a historical perspective. It is also a fact that the development of new information technologies has led to the sharing of many of the challenges facing these areas. The main objective of the Communication is to facilitate closer cooperation between sectors, the aim of which is to draw synergies from this cooperation. This should not prevent the development of its sector-specific aspects. The visions of the Workers' Party in cultural policy are based on the values of freedom, equality and solidarity. In this context, freedom will mean that everyone can freely participate in and benefit from our common cultural heritage. Similarity means that a system needs to be built up to ensure that everyone has equal access to the vast wealth of information on which archives, libraries and museums sit. The value of solidarity for the ABM area means that the community is willing to spend money building up these knowledge bases like archives, libraries and museums. The communication that the Stortinget has to deal with today largely meets these visions. With one important exception, which I will come back to, this communication provides the basis for a policy in the area of ABM that has just freedom, equality and solidarity as its basic values. I'm glad. I am also pleased to record that in this area too, the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties are finding together on the vast majority of questions. Looking at the three sectors as a whole, common challenges can be described as follows: It is a challenge to exploit the potential of new information and communication technologies for the dissemination of information. In this context, it is also an important task to disseminate this knowledge in a good educational way to different users. Another important challenge is to see and identify tasks and objectives across traditional disciplines. A third challenge has arisen as a result of the digital storage of more and more information. In this context, it is also right to point out that this challenge is only growing as a consequence of an increasingly rapid change in society. I would also like to point out that there are major tasks ahead of us in terms of coordinating actions and problem solving national, regional and local. To meet these challenges, the Government proposes a wide range of measures in the coming years. The most important are: State subsidies to the ABM sector are stepped up. This is illustrated in the Communication by pointing to a need of 414 million. kr beyond the level of the day. Organisational changes are added to the museum's field in particular. It appears that it is necessary to introduce standards and quality requirements as well as changes in laws and regulations in these areas. The major and critical challenge in the field of archives is to make digitised archive material available for the future. The constant replacement of machinery and software actually threatens to lose much important information if you do not set up systems to deal with these issues. Yes, it is, in fact, that you can already see that important material has been lost. In this context, I think it is right to draw attention to the public and the importance of documenting and archiving public proceedings in an acceptable way. Important principles of legal certainty are put at risk if, as a single person, it is no longer possible to revert to the procedure because electronic documents have either disappeared or are no longer available because new technology cannot read documents stored in older versions. I would like to make it clear that there are solutions to these problems, but it requires attention and care from both the granting and the executing authorities, so that archives at different levels are able to carry out the tasks we expect of them. The museum sector in Norway is characterised by fragmentation and fragmentation. This picture is made clear when it is announced that in Norway there are 800 different museums spread over about 700 administrative units. The sector is largely uncoordinated within each country and there is also little established cross-border cooperation. In the large flora of Norwegian museums, most of them are classified under the Ministry of Culture and are therefore covered by this communication, but there are some important exceptions, including: university museums and several establishment museums placed under other departments. The general rule with regard to the financing of museums is that there is a shared responsibility between state, state and host municipality. The way in which the individual museum has been placed in the system has been largely influenced by coincidences. In the future, if we are to have a museum sector that makes better use of resources than today in an efficient and rational way, structural and organisational action must be taken. The Workers' Party supports the idea of launching a process to consolidate museums and establish networks in each state. The aim is that this collection could strengthen the museums both professionally and economically, so that local museums can gradually become part of a national network of museums. The Workers' Party has specifically asked the Ministry to assess the appropriateness of a museum law. The opinions about this are very much shared in both the political and the museum's professional environment. The argument that a law can help to ensure sufficient funding for the sector or that a museum law is necessary to create order and structure. It is also claimed that a museum law could be involved and contribute to the necessary status and authority of the museum sector. The main objection to a separate law is that a law is a cumbersome and low-flexibility tool to address the challenges facing this sector. The Bondevik government, which provided this message, concluded that time was not in the hands of its own museum law. The Labour Party believes that there are many good arguments for this and therefore asks the Ministry to reconsider its assessment on this point. People's libraries are a cultural institution with a broad interface to the Norwegian community. With about 21 million visits and a total loan of about 23 million units, there can be no doubt about the significant role of popular libraries as cultural carriers and intermediaries. The libraries are also faced with new tasks, and in the same way as for archives and museums, it is the new information technology and the exploitation of it that poses the main challenge. With effect from 1 October of this year, an invoicing system for the distance lending of books has been established. This means that 70 kroner per person are invoiced. book communicated from a professional and research library. This is an unfortunate development. That is why I am pleased to note that the Committee is asking for an assessment of a compensation mechanism so that borrowers are not burdened with this cost. I said in the introduction to this post that overall there was agreement on the major lines of the ABM policy – with one important exception, and what I was thinking about was the free principle in the libraries. For the Workers' Party, a library is not just a place to borrow books and obtain information. For the Workers' Party, libraries are also a policy instrument for distribution, because we believe that by acquiring knowledge and competence, individual situations can facilitate the creation of a good life. That is why I regretfully note that the Workers’ Party is the only party that still maintains that all library services should be free of charge. The principle of free choice has been a supporter of Norwegian library policy. The underlying idea has been that no one should be excluded from gaining knowledge and qualifications. Maintaining this principle is becoming all the more important when we know that future class distinctions are likely to relate to knowledge and education. The majority of the Committee provides room for payment for library services. It is said that, exceptionally, you can charge companies or organisations for what is called ‘long-term’ tasks, but it should be up to each municipality to decide whether or not to do so. I think the majority of the committee here gives very unclear leads. What is the concrete meaning of the term ‘exempt cases’? How do you limit ‘timely’ tasks? And once again, it's up to each municipality to decide whether to pay or not, we know that it will develop very different practices around the country. So the equivalent offer we can wave good-bye to. To complicate it further, who will check that a borrower is in the library on behalf of itself or on behalf of an enterprise? Is it thought that the libraries should exercise this control, and in the case of how? How are you going to deal with one-man businesses? As you know, there are many of them. Several of the parties included in the majority at this point use every opportunity to indicate that we need to reduce bureaucracy. To me, it looks like it's the exact opposite of what you do in this case. By opening up to paying for library services, you create bureaucracy, and by being so vague in the comments, you create confusion. In conclusion, I would like to sum up by saying that I am satisfied with the broad lines of the policy adopted by the Stortinget today, but I strongly regret that the free principle is a mere matter. There's not much left of the principle at the moment you're about to start defining the 'exception'!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e338	I note that the representatives from the Workers' Party attach great importance to the free principle. It also appeared in the change of line after the previous speaker, in which the representative Ausdal Starrfelt expressed disappointment at the lack of a free principle of 100 pst. And it is right and fair that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party will uphold the principle of free of charge for all types of services in libraries. I also noticed that the representative Larsen put great emphasis on this in conclusion. In this context, it might be interesting to clarify whether the Workers' Party's representatives in the Committee are in agreement, and I refer to a newspaper article in Stavanger Aftenblad on 25 April, where the Group leader, Ausdal Starrfelt, of the Workers' Party, states: ‘Freedom of charge is important in the public libraries. If we're going to make money on the business, we're going to have to pick up the income from non-private sources, for example. on services to businesses and organisations.Perhaps rental of videotapes is an area where libraries can make money.’ It is strange then that the committee falls on the principle that the services should be completely free of charge. I also want to ask the representative Larsen a question. I assume that the members of the Workers' Party in the Committee were also on the Committee's journey to Denmark, where we got a good insight into how the libraries that paid for services. Danish libraries sold information to business in an excellent way, and made money. I would also like to point out that a library in Rogaland somehow had to close down the services to the private business in the local area because it was too expensive to serve. My question is: is the Workers' Party really as much in agreement with the free principle as they express?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e356	What my fractional leader, Ausdal Starrfelt, has meant in different contexts six-seven months ago, I think she herself should be allowed to explain. But at least it is clear that during the process we have been through now, the necessity and importance of the free principle have emerged even more clearly. As I said in my post, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that future distinctions between people in Norway will go exactly in terms of knowledge and education. And it's in that perspective that it's important for us to stick to the free principle, and at all events not open the possibility of it being hollowed out in any way. The representative Sandberg referred to the experience from Denmark. I did not enjoy being on that comità, but I have tried to get some knowledge about this with a business library in Denmark. The information that I have been able to obtain points to the fact that the cost of ‘serving’ business is explicitly much greater than the income that you can obtain from those loans, and then you have actually established a support system for the business community. If that's what the Progress Party is after in this context, I kind of understand the position, but I'm not as sure that the people's libraries around the municipalities are interested in such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e365	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the attention that archives, libraries and museums have received through the processing of the ABM message. There are important areas with many major challenges that we need to address in the future to ensure that the emerging generation gets access to the historical roots we have, and to provide access to knowledge and information. The representative Frank Willy Larsen said in his speech that the free principle was one of the areas where one had different views, and then it's natural that there's going to be the most debate around it. The representative Larsen said that there was not much left on the free principle because one has given an opening. I want to say that the main tasks the libraries have, first and foremost, to borrow books, we have changed as new tasks have come to the libraries in relation to Internet access, and so on. The large majority, with the exception of the Labour Party, adhere to the free principle when it comes to lending books and also chatting on the Internet osb. in the libraries, highlighting the value of this. But in a letter from the Ministry of Culture, dated 23 November 2000, the following is said from the Council of State: ‘If there is no possibility of charging for tailor-made services, it must be assumed that the public libraries will not be able to undertake some tasks for financial reasons — tasks beyond the core responsibilities of these libraries, but which they will be able to carry out competently.’ – So here the Labour Party, according to what the representative Larsen said in his post, “squares”, because if you don’t have a small opening, it means that the libraries say no. Is it not better then to have the door lightly and take a little payment for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e380	It works this way in the libraries today that if you come to the library and ask for a service that is either time-consuming or difficult to access, the library may ask you to come back in a day or two, so that you can have time to do the service and the task you have requested. This is how the Workers' Party wants it to remain. We don't want a development where businesses or organisations can go up to the barrier in the local public library and pay to get ahead in line. I would say that if you introduce what you add now, you will get a development where the business buys space in front of the queue. The consequence of this will be that services to the usual library user will be poorer. I can never imagine that a business manager who goes into a public library and buys services intends to wait for it. So it could mean that schoolchildren, students and other people who use the public library for a day have to wait because there are people who have bought space in the queue. That, I think, is a terriblely unsolvable and very little pleasant development. I hope that any investigation of this will show that the majority's position on this matter is not very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e387	So far, the replication is in many ways illustrative. It shows that the consensus on the main areas of action in this Communication is so large that the lines of conflict go along this one point on which the Workers' Party is so strongly focused, which is the free principle. I have problems accepting the presentation that Frank Willy Larsen gives of the ability to earn that the representative clearly believes the majority is opening up. It must be so that it is absolutely clear that none of us who sit in the majority will allow the libraries to make money on the possibility of publishing information. The principle of free access to all information requested by individuals through a library shall apply to the ordinary users of the libraries. However, because the new technology allows the library to obtain cost-intensive and comprehensive knowledge on behalf of businesses and organisations, we want it to be possible, if the demand for this type of service becomes very high, that libraries can make a cost-effective contribution to it. Now, developments will show the extent to which organisations and businesses come to the libraries and ask for that kind of information. But at least we want to keep the possibility open, so that we don't risk the libraries crowding out the private individuals who need the knowledge for themselves, for the benefit of companies that can use the libraries. We don't think that's going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e396	I believe that the majority of the family committee on this issue has exaggerated expectations of the performance potential. In my first answer, to the representative Sandberg, I was involved with this with libraries in Denmark, and I'm going to try to be a little more concrete. There's a library in Aarhus, it's a big library, where the cost of operating is 100 million. kr per year. A separate Business Department has been set up to provide services to business in the municipality of Århus and surrounding municipalities. The cost of the economic activity is about 2.5 million. NOK; five-six jobs are linked only to providing services to the business community. I have been informed by the library manager in Århus that it is possible to include revenues. About 5 pst. the costs can be covered. I do not understand the majority's position on this. There is nothing to suggest that you can cover this by starting to charge. I feel that you create more confusion than order, and it would be very, very much better if the majority had adhered to the free principle, and kept to the practice that you have now established, that you help as far as you can. It may take some time, but you should be able to come to a library and get free services, regardless of whether you represent a company or whether you get there as a private person.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e405	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e408	St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000 has been an interesting communication, which the Committee has both worked on at Stortinget and has been on commissions in connection with domestic and foreign affairs. The Committee has received a wide range of requests from those affected by this Communication, both collectively and individually. The progress party is pleased that the message came and that we are here today with a product that we are reasonably satisfied with. The Progress Party sees that the three areas of archives, libraries and museums have a lot in common, and therefore should and must be part of closer cooperation to benefit from each other. These three shall manage material from and disseminate knowledge of both distant and near the past. They thus manage the ability to put present time into a historical perspective and thus promote understanding that society today is based on the past generations. From a consumer's point of view, it is often necessary to visit both archives, libraries and museums in order to gain full knowledge of a particular topic. In such a perspective, it is particularly important for authorities to facilitate good interaction between them, in order to ensure that society/users can enjoy and benefit as much as possible from archives, libraries and museums as living social institutions. The Communication provides for significant growth, which the Progress Party needs to look at. However, the Progress Party has great faith that this interaction will result in a great efficiency and thus savings, which will provide users with even better service overall. Such interaction will also contribute to the preservation of our cultural taxes and Norwegian traditions in a much better way. However, the Progress Party believes that a stronger priority must be given, if so. the number and the calculation of the number of museums to be supported. As far as the economy is concerned, the free principle is one of the issues that is being addressed, which I will consider later in the article. Back to archive. It is an area where the Progress Party shares the understanding of how important this is to take care of the future. The Progress Party welcomes the greater use of electronic technology in the work on the archives. This will also lead to more efficient and therefore more compact storage of protective material. The party of progress does not ignore the fact that this will be economical in several areas. The Progress Party sees the importance of enabling the Swedish Archives Agency to take care of the various forms of electronic archive material. Then to the library area. The party has recorded the large number of people who visit the libraries each year, i.e. approx. 21 million, and that these people have approx. 23 million per loan. years. This tells us that the library is an important part of many people's lives, both social, job, entertainment and, not least, schooling. Norway’s libraries are entering a transition period, and the changes will largely relate to the development of ICT use in the context of decentralised education, distance lending services, the acquisition and processing of information and access to databases. In the light of the Progress Party, the public libraries should be stimulated to develop new and alternative cooperation and coordination models for the organisation of library services. In particular, it is important that the many small library departments at municipal level be able to develop cooperation across municipal borders. The Progress Party also sees the need for continuing training for those working in the public library sector, in particular with a view to exploiting the potential of ICT in library work. ICT will enable libraries to cooperate on the acquisition and storage of different information. This will give users a wider and not least a better offer. Nor should it be overlooked that it will give libraries opportunities for various savings. In terms of economics, maybe this is where the Progress Party and the other parties are more or less separating layers. Of course, the Progress Party will, in line with the other parties, make it easier for people to acquire knowledge, information and cultural experiences, but it will cost something to a certain extent. However, the Progress Party wants clean library services to be completely free of charge for children and school students. For the rest of us, the individual library should charge for its services, but to such an extent that people can afford this. Special services shall be fully paid for. It is also appropriate to look at the service provision provided by the libraries, so that this does not become a real competitor of what the private market offers. An example is the lending of videos from the public libraries. While a total of 6 000 films were borrowed in 1988, some approx. One million films. Some other libraries lend ski equipment, fishing equipment, umbrellas, bicycles, etc. It's okay to be flexible, but it's going to be a way. Otherwise, the Progress Party wishes to remove the library purchasing system. The purchase scheme for new Norwegian fiction was introduced in 1965. Through the funds of Norsk kulturfond, all new Norwegian beauty literature of a certain quality was purchased in 1000 copies of each title and made available to the public libraries. In 1978 there was also a purchase scheme for Norwegian children’s literature, which from 1989 was purchased in 1,550 copies. In 1989 the purchasing system for translated literature also came, where 50 selected non-Nordic titles were purchased in 500 copies. Later, a limited purchasing system for children’s and young people’s literature and one for essayistics has been established. By removing this State purchasing system and transferring these funds to the libraries as free resources, freedom of purchase for each library will be increased. In this way, each library can serve its users better. The party of progress is thus very sceptical as to whether they are approx. Thirty million. kr in the year this costs, has any purpose when very many of these books just dust down. I am thus promoting the proposal of the Progress Party for a plan to dismantle the purchasing system for literature and for the release of the funds to the individual library. Then to the museum section. The Progress Party sees the enormous challenges that lie in several areas of the museum sector, and that this will cost a lot to correct, precisely so that valuable Norwegian cultural heritage will not be lost. The Progress Party considers that, in the event of a redeployment of funds and resources and of stricter requirements to be imposed on the museums to receive public support, this could be completed. It turns out that very many of the museums supported today have a very low number of visits and have no material to show that is of national importance. The Progress Party would rather want a real strengthening of the museums that have a national significance. The others have to look at their own earnings and seek support from, for example. community, private and business and not least make yourself more interesting to the public. In the case of State grants, this should be based to a greater extent than now on visitor figures. Nevertheless, the Progress Party recognises that museums with a special national value should have a separate system. The Progress Party has noted that there is a significant lag in registration and preservation in several areas of the museum sector and sees the need for a stronger priority in terms of where public funds are to be used. In this way you will get more complete in this important work. With regard to the use of these three services, the thread of the Progress Party is through this that we should take care of and strengthen what has national value, and give priority to them. We will allow children and young people as well as school students to use the libraries for free, but to strengthen, among other things. The economics of the libraries others have to pay for this. In this way, we will have a fair system that will help justify the use of these offers, as well as that, among other things. The libraries get better finances and thus can provide us with a better service. Otherwise, I want to mention the West Railway and its future. The Progress Party has registered that the Nobel Institute wants to take over these premises. This is in favour of the Progress Party and wishes to see a solution to this at the earliest opportunity at the best of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e445	Per Roar Bredvold has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e450	Through the contributions of the representative, Mr Bredvold, we have been presented with one of the more curious and probably less thoughtful views on the free principle. In a special note, the Progress Party says that it would be desirable to ‘ensure libraries to enable people to acquire knowledge, information and cultural experiences’. They want the library service to be completely free of charge for children and school students. But then it comes: for others, the libraries have to charge, ‘but to such an extent that people can afford this’. Who should define whether you can afford to pay for the services? Does it intend to introduce needs-tested library loans in Norway? Or is it that I'm going to bring with me the Equation Certificate if I go to the People's Library at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e459	The free principle may be what separates the Progress Party from the other parties. I don't see anything wrong with being a borrower of a book, a video film or anything else in a library paying for it. What this sum should be – whether it should be the crown or the crown amount – each library has to decide for itself, because that way the library will see if it is the right price they spend and can adjust it. The most important thing is that people have the opportunity to borrow. That's the opportunity we get from people paying a little bit for what they're using, and in that way, giving each library a better economy and a better offer. So a symbolic price – whatever it may be – gets the individual library to decide for itself, but I think that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e464	That is probably so much the line the representative of Bredvold had for the undersigned, who causes me to take the floor now, as his comments. Because I did not follow completely up. He asked me questions as to whether it would not burden the municipalities, which, after all, are in need of finance, when we want to spend so much money on these museums, which – I guess he meant – will also require the ownership of the municipalities. It amazes me a little bit that he asked this question, all the time the Progress Party and the representative Bredvold do not want to spend money on museums other than those 'who have a national significance', they say in a comment – to the extent that a good borderup, that is. But when they further say that they believe the other museums have to turn to, among other things. to the municipalities to get support, I do not understand that this is entirely related. If the municipalities are in need of finance, it must make things worse. The second thing that I would like to do is perhaps to pluck away is to comment on the position, where the two representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee share the view of supporting documentation and dissemination of the forest Finnish cultural heritage in Grue. It is of little interest that the representative Sandberg does not support this, while the representative Bredvold goes with the rest of the committee. Is it so to understand that the Progress Party supports national minorities and the preservation of their culture only to the extent that they exist in the vicinity of the representatives? I see that there will be no support for the preservation and dissemination of the culture of other national minorities, such as joint, female and tater actions. What is the reason why you just want to support forest fins? The representative Bredvold has made them his heart cause in this context, it seems. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e471	First of all, I would just like to say something about ‘binding your eyes’, as the previous representative said that the Progress Party has had in this matter. I would say that we certainly haven't. If someone has removed the bonds, it's just the Progress Party, to get the right result from the message. I underline it. And then we might have been a little bit criticized for interest in our neighbourhood. There I also want to shoot back a little. If there are any people who have talked about their area of expertise both in this case and in previous cases, I certainly think it's not me, but the previous representative. That a fraction is divided in view of something, I see as a natural part of the democracy we have in the Progress Party. We have ceiling height and can divide into a matter like this when we have different visions. The reason why I supported this with forest fins is that it goes under – as the Communication states – the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. When it comes to economics – to get back to it – and the municipalities, which the representative was in, it's about the individual municipality, which was what we had in our remark. This does not mean that all municipalities should be involved and contribute. That is to say, the individual municipality who feels that it has finances for it, of course, which does not have a bottom-up municipal fund, which does not have a bottom-up county municipal fund, can go in and support that library or the museum or archive it feels for itself. But there shouldn't be any bonds from the state on so and so many percent, that if we as state give-- let's say 70 pst., the municipality should join in and give 30 pst. We're not going to have those bonds. That's why we don't want to spend $3.8 billion – that's $3,800 million. kr – during a ten-year period in cultural promise, or 414 million. kr over a five-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e488	After all, we are accustomed to some remarkably little coherent views on culture with regard to the Progress Party, but that a small minority should be recognised, while the others are not, is quite special, especially since it is in the representative's home area. But that's not what I wanted to focus on in the first place. It was the library service. I think it is sad that a party that has grown as big as the Progress Party, in fact, continues to insist that people pay to go to the library and read a book. It is a knowledge access – cultural access – that has been free for all time. That one then in our prosperity period will introduce a system in which all those who are not children or young people will have to pay to go to the library and borrow a book, and that it will be up to each municipality to decide how much to pay for this service, I think that there is a lack of cultural understanding that is absolutely frightening in a party that is gradually becoming so big. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the same payment principle appears to be reflected in the museum's vision of the Progress Party. If museums in Norway are to be held in claim by means of sponsoring funds, municipal funds and self-benefit through input payments, the museums are closed to quite a number of people. Not least, this school class that comes and largely uses the museums as the teaching arena, as the source of knowledge in relation to the themes they are dealing with. So I'd like to ask this question to the Progress Party: is it actually supposed to keep Museums-Norway alive through self-employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e497	Why the Progress Party has grown so big, I think with our policy, that we have our policy and become big on it, and so the Right Party is getting a little less on its policy. I think the progress is due to it. As far as the free principle is concerned, I want to make it clear once again that it concerns children, youth and school students. The others, for example, I don't have a problem with paying a symbolic price, and it's as I said to each library what this is going to cost. It must be part of their economy, so that they can provide a better service to the individual with a better economy. So this one with national significance. When we have nearly 800 museums in Norway, there is limited support for the individual museum. Then it has to be the way the Progress Party says, that we have to be more willing to prioritize which museums to receive support, so that we don't get 5,000 buildings standing and rotting on the roots. Let's say that now we give priority to supporting the museum and the museum that has a national value. Then we get a proper, up-to-date museum that we can be proud of, and that takes care of Norwegian cultural heritage and traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e506	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e509	As the setting indicates, there is a very high degree of cross-political agreement on fields of action and priorities in the fields of archives, libraries and museums, and the importance of the leadership included in the notification shall not be repeated in my post. I agree with the rapporteur. It is not all the individual comments in which the Committee is fully in agreement, and I would like to elaborate a little more on the comments where the Right stands alone or together with others and the Committee is not entirely in agreement, and also on a few more points. For most people, libraries have so far been the most widely used and simplest source of knowledge and cultural experiences. That's probably the way it's going to be in the future. The Internet will never replace the book, but by the fact that the Internet becomes a natural part of the library's services, it is important to clarify that regular Internet use should be free of charge in line with book loans. This is particularly important for the growing number of remote students, who can access through the Internet quickly and easily information that is not in the library itself. Although a majority of the Committee opens up the possibility for libraries to charge for the particularly costly collection of information ordered by enterprises and organisations, the Right would clarify that the search for individual knowledge should not in any way be restricted by the ability to pay. The right is pleased that work on upgrading the National Library is finally going on, but we find it almost incomprehensible that the chosen extension solution does not even meet the national library’s short-term need for storage space. When you see what's being invested in libraries in our neighboring countries, it's completely incomprehensible that as a cultural nation, we start upgrading our national library with an expansion that's so amputated that the warehouses will be too small at the time of the move. With a magazine area of 9 000 m2, to which the National Building Programme of 1998, the magazine demand would have been covered for 30 years, and we therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to start work immediately on planning a further expansion that will cover both the need for magazines and the need for exhibition space, seminar rooms and auditoriums. It is a weakness in our overall library offer that trade libraries and public libraries sort under different departments. For the ordinary population, there is a growing need for more and more access to professional literature that is not available in the ordinary public library, but that has to be ordered at the trade library. It is then necessary to make it possible for everyone to have free access to the literature they need and for various reasons, without any charge for this service at any point. For a country that sees knowledge as the most important key to the future, it must be a national responsibility to facilitate this financially. Like the majority of the Committee, the Right-wing value of a Peace Prize Centre in Oslo is also seen, but we do not find it right in this round to place such strong leadership in the Municipality of Oslo and the Nobel Committee before financial responsibilities regarding the establishment and operation of a Peace Prize Museum are further explored, and before the Oslo Municipality has presented a complete plan of the area. So that we're not part of the majority's proposal doesn't mean that we're opposed to the project, but we don't want to overrun Oslo as a planning authority. In addition, we believe that a decision to set up a Peace Prize Museum without a proper allocation of prices and responsibilities for investment and operations is perhaps somewhat straightforward. Organizational coordination of the major art institutions in Oslo can mean rationalisation and efficiency in relation to the means of clean administration and the use of conservatory competence. Common magazine may also be more rational than today’s scattered magazines, but it must be emphasised that in order for such coordination to be successful and give the desired effect, it is absolutely necessary for the institutions concerned to agree and have the same understanding of the opportunities and challenges involved in the coordination. On the right, we assume that this has been clarified before coordination is realised. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the somewhat ambitious level of investment that the notification indicates. The amount of investment in crowns has no problem with joining, but one is usually little reserved in relation to how far the amount of investment, to which we subscribe, can reach in relation to the realisation of concrete projects. I would like to remind you that the budget for the opera building so far seems to be spending $1 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e526	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e529	I want to first say that in this case, in many areas, there is a large and wide plural, including the Right Center and the Labour Party. Here the main difference goes in relation to the Progress Party, which clearly believes that this is going to be a good store. Initially I can say that I was at some point in doubt about this with the free principle. But I must say that I am happy that the doubt is cleared away before today, and if I had not been allowed to clear it before, I would at least have got it cleared away today. So much confusion as what has been said about what is to be paid for, you have to look for quite a long time. I want to challenge the Right to make their contribution to the initialization or confusion at this point. What is it that you have to pay for? How do you distinguish? For that was my main argument: that it would be quite impossible to distinguish what one should pay for, and completely impossible to distinguish between the recipient groups. In England they also said that it would be completely impossible. This will also lead to more bureaucracy and remove the libraries from the services and back to the papers and bills. We do not want such a system in the Workers' Party. But as I said, I would like to have the Right's view on who is going to pay, what they are going to pay for, and how much they are going to pay. And does Right think it's possible to do that and at the same time keep a somewhat similar level? When Right is involved in a comment that says that special chatting, but also e-mail usage, shall be free of charge, while time-consuming tasks for others other than individuals, e.g. enterprises must be paid for, but that they are not entirely safe when it comes to small and medium-sized enterprises, I must say that I am confused. I hope the representative Stolt-Nielsen can help with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e539	It's no wonder that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt feels insecure because in the majority we don't do what the Workers' Party tends to do, drawing up a detailed list that requires a big bureaucracy. It is from the Workers' Party's point of view that this becomes so costly with payment, precisely because the Workers' Party presupposes that in order to implement it and to take a small compensation from large enterprises or organisations that want information, it is necessary to have a bureaucracy that lists in detail the scope and rates. The right-hand side doesn't see in any way that there's a need for that. And the library law opens today so that each municipality can assess whether it is necessary or desirable to make a payment. We're just opening up the possibility, we're not imposing anyone to do it. If the representative had heard of this, I also said in my post that the Right believes that normal Internet usage, which has become part of the sources of knowledge and contact that are common in our society, should be open and free to all. Therefore, we want all those who do not have a PC at home to be able to go to the library and retrieve information through their own use of the PC, and to be able to contact others across the whole country, or around the world for that part, by the fact that there are machines installed in the library. So I can't understand that this should be unclear. It is quite clear that we are opening up an opportunity, but we also assume that you will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for changes in the law if that proves necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e546	There are several things in the post to Pride-Nielsen that I think are somewhat contrary to what is logical. First of all, she criticises the Progress Party very strongly in relation to the fact that we want to establish a free right to withdraw ownership or symbolic sums for lending. This applies to libraries. But then she also attacks the Advance Party for that principle regarding the museum. So my first question is, is it that the Right now somehow wants to introduce the free principle to the museum, so that the museums won't be allowed to make their own payment from the visitors either? At least I understood that, based on the criticism of the Progress Party that Stolt-Nielsen made in his contribution. Stolt-Nielsen also says something about the investment part, and is critical of it. I understood correctly, the Right was a little critical of the amounts that were there and that they supported; they thought they were too small, and that in the future, the Right would probably provide for greater appropriations in all of these areas – that is, go beyond the 414 million. kr and the 3,8 billion kr mentioned in the notification. The right – as the Labour Party says – has, in a way, undermined the principle of free movement by including a majority comment with, among others. The party of progress. But then, in the next round, they want to introduce free use of Internet services, for example. chatting and e-mailing. I have not yet understood what is the logical explanation and intention that the Right should in a way suggest that children and young people and anyone should sit in the libraries and chat with the whole world – or for that matter send e-mail. The only argument I got here was that this was an offer for those who did not have a PC at home. Is it now necessary to document whether you have a PC at home or not, in order to be allowed to use these services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e555	We do not intend to go on home visits to check who has a PC at home, but I would like to think that it is primarily those who do not have a PC who are looking at the libraries to make use of it. And if they were to have a PC at home, and yet they wanted to use the library, they should be allowed to do it. I think I answered this in the previous line, so I don't really see the great need to answer it again. In the case of museums, there is also a certain income at the entrance – that is right. But when we look at the huge challenges the museums face in terms of preservation, registration and the provision of exhibitions that are informative and exciting to the public, and if this were to be financed through increased demands for payment for those who come to visit the museums, yes, then quickly the payment demand in the port would be so high that many would be excluded. So even though it could be nice in many ways if we could say that the museums should be free of charge, we haven't put any suggestions on it. We realize that a small entrance ticket may be needed, but we will in all respects prevent the payment requirement at the entrance from being what will cover the museum's maintenance, preservation and organisation costs for the access to information and cultural experience that the audience will have by visiting a museum. I would like to remind the Progress Party, which wants to pay for library services, that not all adults have the same income as the average or above the average. Some actually have quite small incomes and like to have just free library services as their richest source.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e562	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e565	When the message we are handling today, Sources of Knowledge and Experience, was presented by the previous government at the Council of State of Åslaug Haga last December, there were great expectations related to the content of this important message. It is true, as the rapporteur said, that the message is both promising and groundbreaking, and I would say that it is quite visionary. When I allow it, it is also with the background that the new government allowed the message to lie and built on it, and that the committee setting we are dealing with today, shows that there is a broad dissension about the main idea, the visions of the message, also regarding the need for financial investment in this area. Because it's a neglected area we're dealing with today. Therefore, expectations were high, not least from the thousands of people working with archives, libraries and museums throughout the country. It is said that if a person loses his memory, he loses his identity in many ways. So is a society. Archives, libraries and museums represent our collective memory, and if we don't know and understand how to take care of our collective memory, we lose our identity, the foundation of our democracy and our society as a cultural nation. There are two main features of the message that I want to draw out. Firstly, there is a thorough review of the three areas, both archives, libraries and museums, where you have looked at what is needed in the sector, how to bet, how to get more out of the resources put in. As you can see, there is a special treatment for each area that is important to underline. At the same time, there is also the need for coordination between areas. Here it is that there are sectoral interests, there is different tradition that has created a somewhat broken picture, and of course there is some uncertainty about coordination. Nevertheless, I believe that both the message and the setting provide leadership that will be a very good tool for those who have to follow up the message. I think that the message goes as far as it can go, and at the same time we see that we need to take time to develop where all three areas feel well cared for, and where we feel secure for the future, both for coordination and synergy, and for each area. Of course, it also has to do with the fact that this is money. I would like to stress that. Three times the Committee refers to letters from the Department of 16 November this year clarifying the need for 414 million. kr for operations over the next five years in these areas, in addition to a raised need of DKK 3.8 billion for investments over the next ten years. This concludes the entire committee, except for the Progress Party. It is a very good signal to the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture, who can take this with the Ministry of Finance and say that here the Stortinget has actually ended up with a strong economic investment in these areas. I wish you good luck with that. I also said that I believe this message is quite visionary. It is clear that there are demarcation tasks in relation to other ministerial responsibilities, etc. But I want to take an example where I think it was good to get as far as you actually did. This concerns the art museum in the Oslo area, where the coordination and co-organisation of the national art museum based on Tullinløkka, with the National Gallery, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the National Exhibitions, the Museum of Art, the Norwegian Architecture Museum and the Henie-Onstad Art Centre, combined with the clarification of something that KUF is responsible for, namely plans to move the University's cultural history museum to Sørenga in Oslo. This is a vision for something that might take 25 years, but it's important to get it fixed in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e583	Let me first say that I feel a bit strange to take a line on the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, in this particular case, as the representative was a member of the Bondevik administration who made the notification. And if I am not mistaken, she was the councillor who started working on the message as well. But when I have the opportunity, I will be allowed to ask a question to the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, about this with the free principle. What did you think at the time you thought it was right to open up the possibility of this? Is it true that today's debate in the main hall has made clear what the free principle will mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e590	It is true that I, as Minister of Culture, have also worked on this communication. But there are many governments and many governments that have done so. The greater the reason for this, the greater the importance of the communication and the broad consensus on its main features, and that notification and setting can thus be good tools for further work and a signal to the Government to follow up financially. Then to the free principle. It seems to me that this debate on the free principle is, in a way, somewhat reconstructed, because we are going to discuss something. The current situation is such that certain libraries are able to make some payments — and that is not the point of income — for some services. This is also the case with letters from the Ministry of 23 November this year: ‘Sequently, the scope of database services available only for payment increases.’ So here's a situation where new technology makes it possible to expand the offer enormously. I think it is reasonable to look at the possibilities to give this offer, but that it is necessary to make some payment. It doesn't rock, as I see it, by the free principle as we know it. Here, there are questions — and this confirms the ministry in its letter — about whether the public libraries should be able to offer what they want to offer or whether they should not be able to give it. It is clearly said by the department that if you do not have this access, the offer will be turned in. So it does not work – and I would like to clarify it – with the free principle as we know it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e604	It is obvious that the Centre Party, by having had two Ministers of Culture in a short time, has gained a good insight into the subject. The level of ambition of the Centre Party has also recently been strongly enhanced in the field of culture. With regard to the opera, which we are not going to discuss today, the representative, Mr Lahnstein, as the Council of State, has vigorously defended the need for a fully-fledged opera. I can support it to the extent that it will not be at the expense of quality if the cost framework cracks. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I see that the Central Party could not be with the Right and SV about a note about the National Library in Oslo. Everyone who's been over there knows what conditions are like, they're terrible. The National Library has demonstrated that the area currently set aside is only 4000 m2 because the cost framework has been blown up is so small that it will be full in 2002, i.e. before possibly moving into the new warehouses. So I'm a little surprised that the representative, Mr. Enger Lahnstein, who in his contribution spoke warmly about the archives and libraries as our national memory, is not willing to join a note that says that the National Library's magazine space should be 9 000 m2, which the library itself has added, because that's what you need to be able to fill up the magazine for the next 10, 20, 30 years. Why has the Centre Party applied this saving line to the National Library?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e611	Let me first say that I think it's exciting to also cooperate with the Right Party in this area. In general, we agree. I think there are a lot of nice angles of incidence from the Right, except for some isolated areas in relation to culture. That's what I say when people know that I mean that with the total economic effort that Right has, you'll see a fundamental undermining of some of the welfare services in the municipalities, which I'm glad to avoid by the fact that there are others working together and getting a majority in this room. Of course, I'm also glad that Greece sees that the Centre Party has put the ambition list high in terms of culture in general and opera in particular. In the case of the National Library, we have no reason to boast of what has happened there. I admit that. But we're also trying to make plans and schedules that make it reasonably possible to follow it up financially. And a note is not that expensive. But when the specific budgets are presented, we need to look at and assess what opportunities there are for the National Library. I've been through periods of time it's been pretty embarrassing what we have to show up in the building of the National Library, and it seems absolutely there's a need to do something there. And so do we, but maybe we could do more. When Greece underlines the need for even more investment, there is a clear emphasis on the need to do so. We've been together for the next ten years for 3.8 billion kroner. I assume it won't be on the right to go further if you don't get done more for the National Library within that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e622	Let me first say that I have great respect for Anne Enger Lahnstein both as a big-time representative and as a former cultural politician, but I also hoped that Anne Enger Lahnstein had respect for the fact that the Labour Party actually believes this with the free principle. There's no game we're running in this room, there's something we mean on behalf of the hundreds of thousands, not to say millions, in this country that uses the libraries, which is now going to be more uncertain about what offers they can get for free. In the case of political foundations, among others: library service, I refer to my party colleague Frank Willy Larsen's posts. I have to ask the representative Lahnstein: does she not see that it is difficult to define borders? Does it not appear that this could be a slide where one takes more and more paid for more and more services? And doesn't the representative Lahnstein see that it can lead to bureaucracy – that is, the opposite of the way we want to go? The majority goes from an important principle, I respect that one thinks that one should be able to make a payment, but I have not been satisfied today with the fact that one has an overview of the consequences of what one is now opening up to. Does a whole thing know what a do, who it frames? I could be most likely to ask the representative Lahnstein: if a competitor with a small business needs help to download something from the Internet, will he pay or not pay for such a service?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e632	Of course, I have respect for people who fight for the free principle at the libraries. I actually mean I'm doing it myself. I believe that there is no change in what the centre parties, Right and SV say, in relation to the free principle as we know it today. But these are questions about what new offers you can actually make in the library service. For me, it's like this: should we say that it's good that the services can be provided in the public libraries, or should we say to the librarians, who are already doing part of this, as far as I've done it, that these are tasks that are beyond the core of the libraries, but that they will be able to do, but they won't be able to help people with this, because it will actually cost a few dollars? In the question we asked the ministry, which was answered in a letter dated 23 November, there is a question of what this means financially. I understood at Frank Willy Larsen instead that they had got the impression that we were busy with the revenues of the libraries. I'm not busy with library performance. I believe that here the list should be added so low that there are no questions about any earnings. But there are questions about being able to make offers that you wouldn't otherwise be able to make, which are new, and which therefore do not violate the free principle that the Center Party is now entering to reprogram, and which I believe is within the definition that we are giving here. I also think that we can see within the law that we have today that this evolves as a tiny opportunity to make an offer that you would not otherwise be able to make. I can't believe it violates the principle of free movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e641	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e644	Archives, museums and libraries are important cultural, educational and competence institutions that carry out some important societal tasks and values. Everyone should have equal rights to information, to sources that lead to knowledge, to experiences and challenges that enable us to understand the relationship between the past – and, in the case of the past, to make us understand that there are very few of us who come from graves and barons – our time and what is to come. Access to experiences and knowledge that we receive when visiting a museum or a library, or access to valuable archive material, can enable us as individuals to participate in our own lives and in a living democracy and give us opportunities to develop into active members of society. But it requires areas to cooperate and evolve. That is what this message is doing, if it is followed up by action and not least by money. This is important, because these social institutions, like the rest of art and culture, must be able to be key players in the knowledge society of the future. And these are cultural institutions that are important to people. It shows the visitor's number. Libraries and museums have 30 million visitors per year. I agree that the message is visionary, but it has a great weakness, and that is that it only concerns the area of the Ministry of Culture. It's quite incomprehensible, because it's the government's ABM message. Let's take the museum sector: important museums that the university museums are not about. They are not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and they are outside the primary core area of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The result is that museums that are important in terms of research and natural history fall between two chairs. Let's go on to take the technical-industrial cultural memories that document our very close time. To date, they have not been promised that and we deserve to be the citizens of society, because it depends on the cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environment. I hope the Government notices what the Committee says about interministerial cooperation and the special responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, I must express great joy at what the committee says about the Norwegian Vasskraft and Industristad Museum in Tyssedal. It's a well-deserved recognition for the industrious, foresightful and creative ladies who have developed this museum. SV will ensure that this is followed up by appropriations. SV is pleased to underline the national responsibility for making the culture of our indigenous peoples and minority cultures visible – the culture of our taters, gypsies and our new countrymen. By taking this seriously, we can really evolve like the multicultural society we are. Norway has always been influenced by outside impulses — and this is what it should still be. On the library side, there is a huge challenge now to coordinate and cooperate across departmental areas. A ‘decent’ offer depends on cooperation between the public libraries and the trade libraries. For this reason, but also in order to defend the free principle, it is important to ensure a compensation mechanism for remote loans, as SV suggests. While there was a triumph among the museum peoples over the message, there were signs of disappointment in the library area. And I understand that, actually. The reality is that Norway has the most resource-poor and poorly developed library system in the Nordic region. Not only do public libraries have little resources, but school libraries are also poorly developed. It is a problem if one assumes that social development requires that people in a country need ever better skills to acquire knowledge and have a highly developed conceptual and language understanding to master their own lives, both in work and in private, in an increasingly complex society. SV believes that offensive and national efforts are required on the development of a comprehensive library sector, with a stronger focus on school library, cooperation between school and public libraries and ensuring the provision of linguistic minorities and prisoners in prisons, who do not have the access to libraries that we have. SV would stress that the free principle is the idea base of the public libraries and should remain so. It's the most important political tool to make people read. I'm addressing the proposal for a museum law of my own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e667	Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e672	I have understood that the representative Valle thought it was good to get some replicas of her as well, so I thought that even if people are probably tired of me talking about the free principle, I should also ask her about it, because if there is anything I wonder about, it is that SV is agreeing to pay for the free principle. I understand what Ågot Valle has said in the process, that it's exceptional, and it's basically most to prevent capitalists from getting free services that cost a lot for the libraries. I could imagine asking if the limits actually go, because in principle it's an important point of view whether one is on the free principle or not. But even though one might in principle think of opening up to it, it also has to have some practical consequences. I'm the authorized health and social manager. When we introduced a payment on home care, I got my people to figure out how much it would give of extra income for the municipality, and how much time it would take for the municipality to add. And the income was, as I think, NOK 120,000, but it would require at least two years' work. And I'm afraid that the less the payment is, the less wise it is. Because if you don't get any money for this, so that you can assign new people, you have just achieved one thing, and it's taking time from the users of the library to write bills to those who have to pay for their services. Has the representative Valle thought that this is a red tape of the library service that costs a lot more than it tastes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e679	I hope it's not just that I'm going to get lines that I get now, but that I'm actually saying something sensible that triggers lines. In the setting, the Labour Party states that the main way to maintain the free principle is to introduce a compensation scheme for long-term loans. Yes, SV agrees. And that's why we're proposing to put in place a compensation scheme now, and that's what the Storting can do. Members of the Workers' Party will also be given the opportunity to decide when the Ministry of Culture budget is being discussed. An important part of the free principle is also to make loans available to those for whom it is currently not so available. And then I mention the library for prisoners in prisons and multilingual libraries, where I hope the Workers' Party will support us when we propose a reinforcement. I stress that when we join the majority comment, it's because the libraries should be able to charge for what they're already doing today. I join the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein said. So that's just going to be exceptional. Then I also share Starrfelt's scepticism that this can lead to a detachment. If an option to charge requires a change in the law, I assume that the government will return to it. And then I'm going to promise here and now that we won't give any kind of opportunity to charge ordinary people, because people should be able to use the libraries as a collection site, sit and chat in front of the PC, use the Internet, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e695	The working party has used a lot of energy today on the free principle. The representative, Valle, has used energy to argue for a museum law. My question goes a little bit about the use of resources, the use of energy at all, for example. in the museum sector, which is what this is about. The representative, Valle, believes it is right to use as much resources as is required to prepare for a new legislative work in this large area, to put a qualified department in the department to work out a law, to use Norwegian museum development to find out how to set up such a law now that you are facing as much clearing work in the museum sector, in relation to other etat museums, etc.? And in relation to the upgrading, the revitalization, of Museums-Norway, is that a proper use of resources? SV always have suggestions about the use of a lot of resources, and in the cultural budgets they are usually far above others. I also understand that these do not have what we in good Norwegian call stomach problems. Is it Ole Bromm who's out and going again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e700	It's probably not Ole Brumm, it's probably Robin Hood who wants to take from other areas and secure the vulnerable field of art and culture. That's why we're going to do our job both to get a general cultural law – and to ask for Ola T. Loans to support it – and to raise the budgetary framework, give art and culture more than just buttons and gloss pictures and get it up to a proper level. But that requires the ability to re-prioritize from other fields. So it was this using the energy. It may be that the instruments proposed by the Government, which the Committee has set itself behind, will go a long way. But the representative Lånke has also looked at the Danish Museums Act, and said in his post that he felt it was reasonable, so you can only use the experience from Denmark. And I'm afraid that a field to be coordinated with other fields that are regulated, namely archives and libraries, will suffer from it. That's why we also need a museum law, not least to stress the importance of social institutions in the museums. If Stortinget believes that such a vulnerable and fragmented field requires additional protection, we will have to legislate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e707	I don't take a line for Valle to get a line, because I think representatives from SV say a lot of sense in the cultural debate. I am very pleased that we are together in the description of the free principle, which we are holding on to, and I think it is unnecessary to create uncertainty about it. Then Valle said in his post that there was a great weakness in the notification that you did not go into the areas outside the Ministry of Culture's field of action. Now I'm not the one to defend the message, really. But I just want to point out that cultural memories are below the Ministry of Environment. And it's clear that you can have expectations that all the college museums, university museums, university libraries and all this that is under other departments might have to be addressed in one government notice. But that's not how it works. I believe that the message goes as far as it is possible to go. In fact, in the case I mentioned from Oslo, one has managed to break down some of the bulkheads that are between the departments. The Culture Committee is now leading the government to take a closer look at coordination and also to obtain synergies with areas under other departments. So I just want to challenge Valle if it's not better that we start somewhere and get started -- this message we've been waiting for years -- than in a way to put the list so high for coordination between departments that it's impossible to get anything out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e716	I would also like to take this opportunity to say that when we agree on the free principle, it really is to agree on the free principle. I agree that in many ways this is a reconstructed debate. What if it doesn't make sense to start somewhere? Well, of course, it makes sense to start somewhere. And I also think that the Committee has put quite a lot of emphasis on getting an interdepartmental job. But then it's also true that it's the actors who have given us the impression that they wanted a stronger mention of the relationship between the different museums that sort under different departments. And this applies not least to the library sector. Perhaps it is in the library sector the biggest deficiency; one does not understand the coordination that has long since been adopted to take place. I assume that the representative Lahnstein agrees that a lot of effort is needed here to get to a coordinated library service that means strengthening cooperation both between the school libraries and the public libraries and between the libraries of the universities and the colleges and the public libraries. Because otherwise we don't get to the 'navigable' offer that is a goal for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e723	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e727	It is a good, offensive and visionary message we have to deal with today. I am pleased with the broad connection given to the message. There is a need for coordination and interaction in the areas referred to in the Communication, but there is also a special need for each of them, both archives, libraries and museums, for each one to be upgraded in addition to the increased need for interaction. In particular, there is a need for increased economic investment. I want to commend the Committee for following up and strengthening the profile in some areas and reaffirming the willingness to take the economic promise that is needed. I think Anne Enger Lahnstein well gave the headline for the importance this area has when, based on our identity, our common national memory, she drew the line up towards the democratic perspective that is so important, and in which all these institutions individually are key elements. But I guess both the current and the former Minister of Culture can confirm that it can be far from wanting to get the necessary economic resources. We saw that, among other things. in relation to the budget currently under consideration in the autumn, where a successful figure of 70 million has been added. kr during the treatment in Stortinget, which, however, in no way meets the challenges we face in the areas we are discussing today. The left is behind the ambitions for economic investment in these areas. We're talking about several hundred million dollars for the next five-year period. When one knows that there are also other areas of the cultural sector that need a promise, the Left seems to be clear that we are facing the need for a billion-dollar pledge in the next five-year period. It's going to be very demanding. There is simply a need for a political climate change. We who fight for the environment and culture, don't get into the fight with those who prioritize cheaper spirits and cheaper gasoline. This climate change has a common responsibility for contributing to all those involved in cultural policy. The Left wants its own cultural law which clarifies the responsibility of the State and which helps to see cultural actions in the context. It can be a law that helps simplify and bring together today's legislation. As a step towards such a common cultural law, the Left wishes to vote in favour of the proposal on museum law and assumes that such a law sees the entire sector, including the university museums, as part of the whole. Many people have underlined the need to strengthen our libraries. Here we are far from what is the situation in other Nordic countries, and I think it is positive and necessary that there is such a clear desire to contribute to strengthening the libraries. It is an important, undervalued institution, and when we face new times and new technological challenges, the libraries have not become less important, rather the opposite. I will briefly discuss some points that are mentioned in the setting. To the left, it seems positive that it should be emphasised that the regulations of the Archive Act on journalism should not contribute to a breach of the principle of disclosure. We look forward to the Government's presentation of this to the spring, a statement that was also requested in connection with the Justice Committee's submission of a matter of the Public Health Act, which was recently discussed here in Stortinget. The Left also supports the idea of establishing a Peace Prize Centre on the West Railway and considers it a very important and exciting boost, well in line with the traditions that Norway wishes to have in this area. The Committee points out in its position the need to strengthen the eight technologically industrial cultural memories we have. In particular, it points out that the situation in Tyssedal is critical. I can then congratulate the cultural politicians in the Chamber on the fact that the Committee on Energy and the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection gave its budget position an hour ago, in which industrial and technical cultural memories are strengthened by 3 million. kr in addition to that which was in the constitution of the Government, and where Tyssedal is specifically mentioned. There has been a debate today on the free principle. Let it be clear that the Left supports the principle of free as we know it today. The opening given to charge for some services, I believe, is a good tool that strengthens the libraries in a new era, and does not erode a principle that has had broad support, and that will have it in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e753	An important dimension in relation to the library and museum is the multicultural. Norway has always been a multicultural society, which is also well visible in its attitude. In relation to this sector, this has not been adequately addressed until now, although the situation has improved over the last decades. It is a clear majority who now establish that it is a national responsibility to preserve and document the multicultural nation that we have always been, to be in relation to the minority groups that have been here for centuries, or to our new countrymen. It would lead too far to refer to all the groups mentioned in the notification and setting, but both the tether culture and the relationship with forest Finnish culture have been raised in the setting. The same applies to Sami and female documentation centres. In both archival, library and museum contexts, it is now clear that a key principle is to show cultural diversity. One thing is to establish your own institutions, but it's just as important to find solutions that also take care of the multicultural dimension of our culture. When the Government now determines that there is a need for additional investment in this area, it is also an expression of recognition and respect for the multicultural society of Norway. The majority of the Committee therefore chooses to stress in its opinion that it is a national responsibility to ensure documentation and dissemination of the culture of national minorities, but at the same time it is natural that it should be done in cooperation with the counties and municipalities that will become localisation sites. What is not as pleasing is that the majority, everyone other than the Workers' Party, is now, in reality, abandoning the principle of free in the libraries. That we should stay standing alone as defenders of free services is surprising. In fact, the majority in words chooses to say that you are still for free, but in action you open up in order to be able to charge. It is a strange way of presenting their actions, which makes it apparent that the majority is probably not entirely comfortable with the policies they adopt today. In the setting, they have tried to minimize the importance of their policies – strangely enough in themselves – and try to present them as if this were not significant. The Labour Party should then have been supported in this matter. When the majority now leave to the municipalities to define what they are going to charge for, it will of course result in municipalities using it. So the small tab of an opening that the majority is trying to produce their actions that, quickly, could lead to the extensive development of payment services in the libraries, not least with the examples that have been used here, among other things. from Denmark. Either you don't see what's coming out of the policy you're putting up with, or you try to hide the consequences. So you try to make a point that if you keep the free principle, it means that there are services that will not be offered. How it's connected, I don't quite understand. First of all, there is no special payment to be made, and then the large payment should not result in the provision of comprehensive services based on that payment being an invoice that does not go up. The problem for many libraries today is not that you can't charge them, the problem is that they lack people to do those services. In addition, when you start going in with payment, we risk the situation that people who pay for the services go in front of others and their needs. That problem won't pay. If payment is to solve that problem, it will have to bring about a very comprehensive system for the payment of services and costly solutions and will not be the minimization system that the majority are trying to present as in their attitudes today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e770	The biggest message about archives, libraries and museums is a pioneering work in many ways. For the first time, the three major documentation sectors in society are presented in a common perspective with a focus on existing common features and future opportunities for cooperation and coordination. The message was submitted by our predecessors, but the current government had no problem standing behind it. I note with satisfaction that also a unanimous committee now adheres to the objectives and principles outlined in the communication for a long-term upgrade and development of the archive, library and museum field. Similarly, I am pleased that the Committee stresses the need for the size of the annual budget proposals to be submitted to an investment plan for cultural buildings as a basis for the ongoing prioritisation of the projects concerned. This provides a solid and cross-political basis for the comprehensive follow-up work on a wide range of activities that the ministry is now undertaking with great enthusiasm. In this context, there is also reason to take into account that a broad majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, explicitly states that a stepping up of operational appropriations in the coming years is necessary to achieve the objectives outlined in the Communication and that the financial framework for cultural buildings other than the new opera house must cover projects to the extent set out in the Communication. In the field of archives, the preservation of electronic archive material is clearly the largest and most critical challenge. A little bit simplified: paper-based archive material is preserved in readable form if you do not do anything active to discard it. The opposite is true with electronic archive material: it will automatically become inaccessible and thus, in practice, will be discarded if active and systematic countermeasures are not put in place to prevent it. Making the Archives capable of coping with the difficult challenges we are facing must therefore have the absolute highest priority in the field of archives in the years to come. The further development and organisation of the National Library is undoubtedly the largest of the purely state tasks in the library field in the years to come. I agree with the Committee that in the library sector there is a need for organisational simplification, better coordination and clarification of responsibilities at state level, both in order to achieve the more appropriate and effective provision of strategic national library functions and, in the extension thereof, in view of the development of a comprehensive library system that appears to users as a seamless library offer. In the context of the overall idea underlying the overall treatment of both archives, libraries and museums in a joint communication, it is gratifying that the Committee – as I see it – accepts the idea of a common government competence and coordination body for the ABM field. What is stated in the Communication is that the basis for such an establishment will first be explored, in close cooperation with the professional communities and subsectors involved. However, it is also not hidden that such an establishment is a clear objective. The Ministry agrees with the Committee that it would be unfortunate if such an investigation were to hinder the follow-up to the sectoral measures outlined in the notification. It is also a clear condition of the Ministry that such establishment should cover all three subsectors on an equal footing. However, I have noticed that the Committee is concerned that the establishment of a joint body may interfere with the need for internal consolidation and coordination in the library and museum sectors, respectively. I can promise that this is something the department will take into account in the further work. As I see it, the effort to link stronger organisational links between archives, libraries and museums in itself will help bring in greater dynamism and make it easier – not more difficult – to achieve better internal coordination in each of the two subsectors. Let me finally say something about the museum area, which is clearly the heaviest bet area in the message. I am pleased that a unanimous committee expressly subscribes to the notification's proposal to initiate a process in which Norwegian museum development, in cooperation with the respective county municipalities and museums over a five-year period, will review the whole country with a view to a regional consolidation of the institution structure in the museum field. Furthermore, the Committee endorses the three guiding principles for the future organisation of the museum sector. Questions related to the organisation and funding of the Norwegian museum service have been on the agenda for more or less 15 years, but it has been impossible to make significant improvements. It is therefore a significant step forward that has been taken through the connection we get. I also welcome the fact that the majority of the Committee concludes positively about the second great museum in the communication, the comprehensive plan to co-organise the six art and art industry museums in the Oslo area into a large national art museum, with the main base of Tullinløkka. A Peace Prize Centre on the West Railway can be a unique opportunity as well. The Committee otherwise has a number of other comments that I have not found time to comment on, but I just want to say that we are delighted to take on the work, which is of great importance to the country's cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e818	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e821	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the government because the government has so much been behind the Bondevik government's message. We largely share the views expressed in the communication. That being said, I want to deal with two things. One is the cleanup work that I think we all agree on is necessary in relation to other departments, not least in the library and museum area. This concerns the relationship with the trade and research sector of the libraries, and not least the protection of cultural heritage in the museum area. My question to the Council of State is: what approach will the Council of State have to take to the necessary steps that need to be taken above the level of the ministry in order to achieve, among other things, a seamless library, and in order to obtain good and orderly responsibilities in the field of cultural memory protection? I understand that it is a problem for a department to resolve with other departments, which are even much bigger and stronger, but I want to challenge the Council of State on this. The second point is that the members of the Government's own party have spent almost all of their contributions on today's free principle. In view of what has happened in the vote, we must note that the vast majority of the committee and in this Chamber want some form of opening in relation to this by making payments for library services, so that the Council's own party is in a minority when it comes to doubting the principle. I will then challenge the Council of State on just this: How will the Council of State deal with what has arisen in the position, and in the Chamber, in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e830	To the representative Lånker's question, I would like to say that coordination in the library sector and in the museum sector is of course of the utmost importance and poses major challenges. That's the core of the whole message. As far as the museum sector is concerned, the need for greater coordination across the ministerial boundaries is a recurring theme. Here we will work both cross-ministerially, in relation to the other departments, and in relation to the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, it is about the establishment museums that we will also be able to go in and coordinate in relation to. This is one of the major challenges we want to address. As far as the free principle is concerned, of course, I cannot be quite enough able to stress the importance of free lending from the public libraries at a time when commercialisation is in most areas of society. I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the committee who have adhered to the principle that loans from public libraries should remain free of charge. We believe that there is a margin that is left if one starts to derogate from this basic principle of free lending, but also the members of the other parties in the committee, except the Progress Party, seem to be reserved for the possibility of exemption. I believe that the Department should initially be able to focus on monitoring developments in the situation of needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e839	In my article earlier today I talked about the content of the purchasing system. Various scientific literature and translated literature are purchased, and this together costs the Norwegian taxpayers approximately. Thirty million. kr per year. In the nations of 10 February this year, there is an article on this topic, where a librarian believes that the public libraries are losing on the government procurement system. She says two thirds of these books are not being read. Rather, she wants these funds to go to the libraries, so that they can buy what people want to read. Don't the government council think it would have been best if librarians who know what people are asking for, get these funds and buy books people really want to read? Does the Council not see that this will make the libraries even more interesting, or is there any other desire behind the State purchasing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e848	I register that the representative Bredvold is to remove the purchasing system. We are now reviewing in the Cultural Council an evaluation of these arrangements in the literature field. It's my clear impression that these arrangements are of great importance, and people I meet from other countries look with great respect and admiration at the arrangements we have here. I think it's a democratic principle that all the libraries have the same access to the same literature, so I experience it as a very important thing in our literature systems per. today. But we have an evaluation going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e855	The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party refer to fragmentation in the museum sector and ask that consideration be given to the appropriateness of a separate museum law. Now I'm very happy to hear the Council of State talk about accepting the challenges that the communication poses, and to which the setting refers, and look at what a majority in the Grand Duchy wants to be given priority by the ministry. I would like to ask the Council of State whether she believes that the Department has sufficient resources to meet the challenges posed by the notification, and at the same time to assess the scope and necessity of its own museum law, or whether such investigation must necessarily be at the expense of the main challenges that the Department is now facing. Something else that I want to get back to is the answer that we got when it came to integrating university museums and other museums. A majority would like more cross-sectoral cooperation to increase access to the entire source material throughout the museum sector, which is located in research museums, university museums, museums and other cultural museums, while the majority of the Workers' Party sees no need for the Ministry of Culture to assume responsibility for integration with the departments. Did I understand correctly that the Council of State is more closely connected to the majority of the committee than to its own party group? In that case, it will be quite interesting and quite plentiful, and there's a lot of respect for it. I would like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e866	I am interested in a new assessment of whether a museum law can be an appropriate instrument, as SVs and also the Workers' Party's fraction ask. The most natural thing is that this issue will be addressed in the announced Culture Communication, where it is intended to make an overall assessment of the entire cultural policy instrument. As far as coordination needs are concerned, it is natural that the Committee should be concerned with these needs, which such administrative boundaries always bring with them. I will intensify the work on the coordination issues raised by the Committee, based on the comments of the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e874	Like the Council of State, I would like to stress the importance of the message we are dealing with today, and the milestone that this is in the process of strengthening archives, libraries and museums. But it is important that the follow-up is in line with the ambitions set out, both by the Government and by the Storting. The Council of State mentioned in its article ABM development, i.e. the government competence and coordination body on which some time will be spent. I would like to stress that it is important that the work on getting this body in place is done as quickly as possible. There's a lot of consideration here, and I'm sure the department will take it. But to move on, I think it's important to put this in place as a signal. In addition, I noticed that the Council of State mentioned an annual priority plan for investment. It's very important, as I said in my post, because in this area you have a aftermath that's really a little scandalous. State investment in this sector in the 1990s has been 0.4 pst. of the total state investment, so it's actually small amounts we're talking about so far, and there's a big need to be met. I think it is important, and I would like to say that we need to have annual budgets with a prioritisation plan for investment, and that we are also following up this which is going on with 414 million in operation. kr, where the state council now has the bulk of the population clear in its back. The left's representative said that a political climate change is needed to make a commitment in this area. I think that's important, but I think the Council of State now has the best prerequisites for really fighting an increase in this area. Finally, I would just like to say that I registered that the Council of State would closely follow the development of the libraries. [[President clubs]] This means that there is no instruction to reduce the offer that already exists in some places, but that we stand by the principle of free of charge. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e887	It became a pretty long line!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e890	I thank you for a lot of good input into the work on the message and also during the debate here today. I seem to notice trends in climate change, which can be a good part of the further work. When it comes to establishing the coordinating body in all three areas, this is, as I said, something the ministry will go into with full force. Similarly, we see it as a major and important task to present an investment plan for budgets each year, which we will take seriously. It's true that we have a aftermath, and that we now have a historic opportunity to get a breakthrough to lift this whole field that is so important to our whole development as a nation, and our whole democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e899	It's to hope that we can bring about a change in climate when it comes to investing in art and culture. I also hope that it is possible to get a majority for it even at the next crossroads, at the next big shot – that it can really be a big crowd that goes in to increase the appropriations for art and culture. There is a large consensus about this message. I would like to focus my attention on an area where there is a minority comment, namely the library sector. As the Council of State certainly understands, I am particularly concerned about the library sector. It is such that the funds for the mobile library services were put into the county council frames, and they were given without there being any cultural policy justification for it, as I see it. Mobile library service in Norway has been an important policy tool to ensure that all residents of Norway receive the same library offer. There has been a supplement to the stationary library service, and especially children and the elderly, who may not be so mobile, have benefited. Nevertheless, the mobile library service is little developed in Norway. If one compares to small, flat Denmark, which also has many buses in cities, one can become a little shy, especially when one knows how important library availability is in relation to the reform of competences. That is why we should build up the mobile library service here in Norway. Now we see the result of the funds being put into the framework of municipalities and counties that have poor finances. For example, the bookboat “Epos”, which I know well, and which has meant a lot to the surrounding communities, is now in danger. What steps will the Council of State take to secure and expand the mobile library service, which means increased accessibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e910	The representative, Valle, addresses the mobile library services, and we have had a discussion about this in the past when it came to the cancellation of earmarked grants to the municipalities. I fully agree with Mr Valle that increasing public engagement to strengthen our nationwide library system is an important matter. But we have to hold on to the fact that the operation of public libraries is and should remain a municipal responsibility, and that also applies to the mobile library services. We should not underestimate what it might have to say that this responsibility is anchored in the local autonomy of each municipality. The most important thing we can do from the state is to secure the municipal resource base that allows local politicians to provide the population with a good, satisfactory library offer. But we do not get away with the fact that it is ultimately the political will to prioritize the library offering that will be crucial. However, active central information and guidance activities can be an important contribution to promoting the necessary understanding of the importance of public libraries in the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e917	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e920	It goes towards the end of the debate, and I want to address some issues that have not been addressed by so many others. But first a little bit about this recurring issue of conflict, obviously, in this debate, the free principle. At least I think it's good to be able to establish that if you do the job yourself, that is, if you go to the library, pick up the book from the shelf, sit down at the computer, go into different databases, it's clear that it's free. But if someone comes from a big company, goes into the library and says that we would like to have run out all the data related to this problem area from 73 different databases around the world – is it reasonable that that company should get this for free? It is the kind of services we have been thinking about when we said that it must be possible to charge for labor-intensive operations that make it impossible for others who need the librarian's assistance to receive the offer they are entitled to. It may not be possible for it to be free to tailor database solutions for everyone, including large enterprises. So I think this is pretty straightforward, but I understand that the Workers' Party needed to find something to deal with in this case. In the case of the art museums in Oslo, it's a very enjoyable theme in this message that one should go in for a merger administratively of the various art museums. There is still reason to ask some questions, because we have, even though it does not belong to our committee, followed the merger of the art colleges in Oslo and saw that there have been significant problems associated with it. I'll warn you, we'll get a show-off and a war against everyone if one joins the different art museums together. I hope we will avoid that, and I hope that it will be stressed that there are some overall objectives and functions to be coordinated, administrative support functions, etc., but that each institution must also have the opportunity to retain something of its own. In particular, I think of Henie-Onstad Kunstsenter, which is outside Oslo, and which is a private institution that communicates international contemporary art. They have also taken a positive view of this merger, but they underline very strongly, and I think that is right, that they must be allowed to retain their peculiarity – it must be a dynamic development in the individual subdivision of this art museum. I think it's important to think about that in the further process, and I'm sure the council thinks about it. Then it is with amazement that I have registered that the Workers' Party is not included in the comment on the Oslo Medieval Museum. When we talk about Tullinløkka and the art museums, we also talk about the relocation of the Historical Museum to Sørenga, for which the academic college at the University of Oslo has unanimously agreed, and which, according to this letter, all the fractional leaders of the Culture Committee in Oslo City Board – from RV to the Progress Party, including the Workers' Party – have agreed. The Workers' Party is therefore not in favour of a simple comment on the measures now proposed and which are implicit in the communication. It amazes me – a party that raised the red urban development tab high in the debate on Bjørvika, where Oslo's inner east from this pulpit was described as the area we are now really going to develop. So here lies Oslo Medieval City, waiting for a development – the Workers' Party does not join the note. I think it's amazing. I thought it was a joint committee that was going to go in in order that one could develop the area, where the committee itself has been on an inspection, to a medieval museum. And when the University of Oslo also joins it, I have to ask: Where was the Workers' Party when we discussed this comment in the Committee? Finally, I am pleased that the National Library in Oslo is getting a new magazine, but I am skeptical about – as I also said in a previous line – that someone is now building too little and not even enough to meet the library's short-term needs. If the National Library is to become a fully-fledged national library – the Committee has been on a couple of occasions both in Copenhagen and London, which are fantastic – and not an amputated, worn-out branch, then an immediate start must be made to plan for a further expansion of the magazine capacity to 9 000 m2. I hope that it will eventually become a majority for, because I think it's stupid to plan and develop a magazine that will be full already at the opening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e935	In my post I want to focus on the archive part, which I think has received little attention in the ABM message. The fact that one calls this subject area archive is related to the fact that one initially only handled documents. The audio and video media have arrived later. The main archives are the Riksarchivet and eight regional national archives, which together constitute the State Archives. All governmental bodies have delivery obligations to the Swedish Archives Agency, while the municipalities are obliged to keep their older archives. Unfortunately, most municipalities do not manage their depository obligations well enough, and much valuable material has already been lost. With the Archive Act, municipal responsibility is now defined more clearly, and municipalities have to set up their own storage facilities. Intermunicipal cooperation can be a solution for small and medium-sized municipalities. Disposal of archive material from private archives is mainly voluntary. The records in the private archives are small in relation to the public material. However, the private archives are very important in order to avoid being stuck with a crooked source of insight and knowledge about Norwegian society and cultural history. The Ministry will therefore facilitate a State aid scheme for the protection and dissemination of private archives. It is important that the State also takes responsibility for these archives. The conservation work is both vulnerable and resource-intensive. Until 2025, the Swedish Archives must also receive the paper archives created by government for the past 25 years. It is not right to claim that the main work of the Archives is to preserve. The main task is to provide information and content based on those who can provide the information to us – the information providers. We need systematic analysis, interpretation, organization and dissemination of this material. Of course, the archives' task of securing the material for posterity is very important. However, it is even more important to make this material available to users of the archives and to future generations. I will quote parts of the Minister of Culture Ellen Horn when she presented a report from the National Archives and the Ministry of Culture in connection with the Government's action plan for IT Norway: ‘We must prevent the tracks behind us from being lost while we are walking. It's dramatic if we don't put up with the challenges of preserving the electronic archives...Constant changes in software and hardware can make electronic information inaccessible to later times if no special measures are taken." The electronic archive may otherwise become technically unavailable. Finally, I would like to say a little about privacy. The protection of privacy in the Administrative Act gives the greatest limit to the free access to file delivered. It is important that the Archives act as a prudent manager of personal sensitive material. Then one avoids such material being more required to be deleted. However, most of this material is freely available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e959	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e962	I don't want to talk about the free principle anymore, but we don't play with it – we really mean it. I want to say that in this message there is very much positive for the whole country, not least for our capital, Oslo. There's a lot of development, expansion, that's what's going on. The one thing, as mentioned earlier, is a coordination of the art and art industry museum, with a main base at Tullinløkka, which again hangs in the hope that the Historical Museum will move to Sørenga, as part of the Middle Ages city. The second is the National Library, where the magazine section is to be expanded. And the third is the Peace Prize Center. I found out about this project half a year ago, and I have to say that it was one of the most self-evident projects I've had. It is such that the conclusion was self-evident – obviously Norway has to exploit the possibility of building a Peace Prize Centre and attracting people to this country because of it. I'm very happy that we have now taken some steps further to get it in place, and I really hope that there are many of us who get to join the opening on 7 June 2005. Then to the Oslo Medieval Museum. We were there, but we felt that there were very specific receipts regarding what was going to happen when it came to a matter that we did not know so well. We have also been visiting. The working party looks at Oslo Medievalderby as a very important and exciting project that we will clearly support further – it should not be on us – but we thought that a matter that was not mentioned in the message at all, was in a way well-detailed. So if the representative of Greece or others would think it's on the Labour Party when it comes to cooperation on development in Oslo East, it's wrong. I myself have worked in that part of the city – 30 years ago soon – and have seen how bad it was then. Something has now begun to come into place – they have really started to rust up. It's very positive, and I'm not in doubt that, along with these grips we now take on the cultural sector, Oslo and Norway will make an even more attractive country both to live and live in and to travel to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e973	I find that it was a mistake of the Workers' Party not to join the comment on Oslo Medieval City, and that is joyous. That means they support it whole-heartedly. I also want to talk a little bit about institutions in the capital. The National Library is a separate chapter. Here we are pleased that the Government is now adding to the realization of a new warehouse building at the Oslo department and proposing start-up appropriations also on the 2001 state budget. Anyone who has visited the National Library of Oslo knows that this cannot be more than the first stage. The location of the institution is quite unsustainable. The development of the National Library must already be put into a longer-term perspective, where the upgrading of existing warehouses and office premises cannot wait. Then we have to take one step at a time. And it is not always as easy to understand the need for new cultural buildings in the capital, but it is a necessary challenge because Norway has so much to say again. It's a huge task and a national responsibility to make sure that the cultural heritage doesn't happen because of bad storage conditions. It is also a national responsibility to ensure that it is made available to the greatest possible extent. Of course, some of these institutions must also be in the capital. This also applies to the plan for a new art museum at Tullinløkka. The implementation of this project will, of course, be long-term, but new and improved facilities for the National Library will have to be high on the priority list. I refer to the comments, where the Committee also says something about the specific nature of the individual institution, as also the representative of Greece mentioned, which must not be swept away. Like Greece, I have a great deal of understanding of how to do this, for example. by Henie-Onstad Kunstsenter can be concerned about this. But it's important that they also become a valuable part of the whole. This must be taken into account in further investigation work. I am also familiar with the fact that at the Norwegian Architecture Museum it may be too long to wait for a new building on Tullinløkka, with the backdrop of the awkward existence of this museum tempts. In the past, they have had strong desire to use other premises near where they are now, and it should be a challenge to find a solution to this problem, at least in a transitional period. Finally, I am very pleased that it has succeeded in getting a majority to establish a peace price centre in the old station building on the West Railway. The Peace Prize is an important international tool for the resolution of conflicts. It's also an important symbol. Norway is a very privileged nation in the world, I would say, given to managing this instrument. It also obliges us to make visible the importance of the Peace Prize and make its history available. We will take this responsibility. It is disappointing, I think, that the Right – of all parties – does not support such an establishment. They jumped off when we were going to decide to build a new opera in Bjørvika, and so do they now. I sincerely hope that the Right will change its mind before the vote today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e991	It is a bit interesting that the representative Lånke – to begin with – earlier today criticised the Progress Party for the way in which we care for the interests of the community. In a three-minute post now he uses the I-form in the review of a Peace Prize Centre on the West Railway. Very well known, the Progress Party has also been involved throughout that process. Based on the introduction to Lånke, it appeared that he personally made sure that the centre had come into place. In the course of today’s debate, the Progress Party has again been criticised for its fundamental view of this with the free principle. There are no representatives who have shown anywhere in the setting where the Progress Party is critical or negative to neither archives, museums or libraries. In this context, I would like to refer to page 13 of the vote, where the Progress Party, in its comment, refers to its interest in these areas having their natural development in the future, and how important it is. That the Progress Party wants to do this in a different way and not at this point in time, is because of billions of funds in the future. I think that's a responsible way of acting, and we'd better come back when the annual budgets are to be adopted. Then it's interesting to note that the Council of State only had to deal with the centre block for next year's budget in order to get at all extra funding for culture. This may also be the case in the future, if the Council of State is to operate in the current government. I will venture into the local environment anyway, because on page 15 of the setting, the Falstad Centre is mentioned. Here I am tempted to use my form, and I am tempted to refer to the Progress Party as the initiator of the Falstad Centre, because it was, after all, the Advance Party that pushed through the first appropriations of the Committee, along with the Centre Parties in its time. I am very happy that it has come into place. But maybe we should have added a little bit more to the comments in relation to the development, in relation to the cooperation that might happen with regard to the Pilestrete and Villa Grande. But I am very pleased that it has come into place. Finally, I want to link some words to museums in Norway compared to Denmark. We have 800 museums, Denmark has approx. 250. I remember asking a museum administrator in Denmark when we were on a comitology tour, what could be the reason that there are 800 museums in Norway and only 250 in Denmark. He had a clear answer to that. The reason was, of course, that we in Norway are so nationalistic that we want to take care of the smallest thing. That's why we kind of built a museum around Oddvar Brå's broken staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1002	It is almost strange that a message of which there is so much consensus can trigger so many three-minute speeches on the tamp of the debate. But the representative Lånker provoked me a little when he talked about the right not going in for the Opera. No, the right would have built the opera in the place where the Opera itself wanted to have it, where it was possible to calculate the costs in a much more precise way than the depth project in which the centre parties and the Workers' Party threw themselves into Bjørvika – in deep water, literally – where the project now seems to be spending DKK 1 billion. About NOK 1 billion more is indicated that this could cost. Right try to be responsible for what we're committed to. We want to know what things cost before we order, so the bill can be so much higher that it pushes out other projects. That's what the Right is concerned about. As far as the Peace Prize Centre is concerned, the Right is just as concerned as everyone else about having a Peace Prize Centre, that it will be important in connection with our having the honour of awarding the Nobel Peace Prize. But here, too, we want to know what it costs. And for all things, we don't want to overrun Oslo as a planning authority in terms of the location of the center, in the same way that the Opera was overrun in its desire to be on the West Railway. At the bottom of the debate, I must also be allowed to say that by committing oneself to projects at enormous costs, there are fewer and fewer opportunities for other projects to be included in the annual budgets. Now we have delivered an option regarding archives, libraries and museums. All of us in the cultural committee know that on Avaldsnes – a millennial site chosen in Rogaland – there is an unopened cultural archive on the sea floor below. It's an unopened archive of taxes from the 1200s and before that. It's at the top of the seabed and downwards. This archive did not want to mention the Committee because the project was not yet calculated as a cost. I want to say as strongly as I can, that we don't know which projects will come in the future. They may cost a great deal, but can nevertheless be of such cultural value to the whole nation that they would have to be given priority over some other projects, and at least it must be important to have an overview of the costs of the decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1018	The last two posts cause me to have to get a few comments. First of all, to the representative Sandberg: he thought it was going too far to use me-form in connection with a Peace Prize Centre on the West Railway. I guess I wasn't quite aware that I was doing it. If I did, I think it must be a rash of the exaggeration of love, but I hope I get forgiveness for that. I notice at least that now the Progress Party is eager to support the establishment of this Peace Prize Centre, although they were not the first time we took it up, in connection with the opera affair. So to the representative Inger Pride-Nielsen, who came up with several things, and I don't know if I can get into everyone. When it comes to the opera bat, I don't think we're going to continue it today. We'll have to leave it. But when it comes to overruning the planning authorities in Oslo, I don't think that's what we're doing. The state owns the building and the site on the West Railway, and what we're asking the Government to do is to establish a Peace Prize Centre in a building that's already standing there. If the state doesn't have greater control over its own property in Oslo than that, I don't get it! So I don't quite understand the right. With regard to this with the prioritisation of cultural construction, I am greatly surprised that the right-hand side is addressing it today. They've stood here criticizing all of us for the soberness of building the magazine on Drammensvejen. They want a building of 9,000 m2, which will cost a lot more, so here I think you have to sweep at your own door. I totally agree that we should be careful about priorities, because I think I know more about it than many. It is that we need to prioritise this area in order to get to what we want. When it comes to the cultural memory project at Avaldsnes, I don't think we should follow up this debate here in the Chamber either. It has to do with completely different assessments, and I cannot see that they are within the scope of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1031	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1034	I needed to answer that line, because the right is just very concerned that what we're doing, we're going to do really. When we travel culture building, they're going to have building qualities and a volume that lasts for the future. We have to bet on a proper expansion where we build up, instead of climbing a little bit here and a little bit there in order for more and more projects to get a little bit of what they need, so one can see that we're betting on that project or that project, because then they're left more or less half satisfactory in relation to the need that actually exists, and in relation to the building and aesthetic requirements that one should set on cultural buildings that are built for the future. It's about the opera house in Bjørvika, where we're worried about the cost cracking, we're very worried that it can go at the expense of quality,... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1041	Now it's time to talk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1044	and we see the example in the National Library.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1049	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1062	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1069	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Per Roar Bredvold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Ågot Valle on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a museum law.’ The left has said that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1092	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a plan for the phasing-out of the purchasing arrangements for literature and for the release of the funds to the individual library.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1129	Here the Right has announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-01.ana.ud756e1145	There is no record.
