ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e27	The representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e40	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e45	Mr. Øyvind Korsberg has been proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg is considered unanimously elected president of the Stortinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e66	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Bjørn Tore Godal State Council Karita Bekkedem Orheim The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e85	I have a question for the Prime Minister. On 20 June 1997, the Stortinget adopted a unanimous decision on a proposal from the Right and the Labour Party: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up guidelines that can help to draw up clearer boundaries between government and policy management in the departments and between the government and other heavy social actors and interests. Provisions on quarantine should be considered below. The Government is asked to return to Stortinget with the results of such an appropriate review.» The previous government did not have the power to come back to Stortinget after having had the case for nearly two and a half years. Can we expect the government of Stoltenberg to come back to Stortinget in accordance with this unanimous decision, which was therefore also behind the Workers' Party, in the near future, perhaps before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e97	The answer to the question is yes. Strictly speaking, there is no need to say more, but I can add some comments and considerations. We believe that the debate on the relationship between civil service and political positions is an important debate. We voted two and a half years ago for the proposal that guidelines should be assessed, and we will go through it now and come back to the Storting in appropriate form. What we want to propose and whether we want to propose something is too early to say anything about, but we note that the outgoing government has been putting on the proposal for two and a half years without making any progress. We will work much faster than the government that has left. I would also like to stress that what was central at the time was scepticism about politicians going back to jobs in the civil service, and you were busy limiting that access. It was a key question in 1997. With regard to the appointments made in my government, it is to a large extent so that those who have taken political positions have also resigned their duties, while, as far as I understand, it has to a lesser extent been the case in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e106	Does it also mean that the Prime Minister will have this as a kind of requirement for all those who have gone up in political positions in the departments? I think, among other things: to a Deputy Director of the Ministry of Finance who has become Secretary of State in the same department. It's going to be very difficult for dispatch managers and directors and managers, who were their bosses, to experience the old deputy as their new boss, knowing that he might come back and become their subordinate later on. It's going to be a hopeless system. Does the Prime Minister also agree that it is unfortunate that persons who have participated in confidential party political formations in the previous government are now members of the political leadership of the Prime Minister's office and that it is appropriate to question the new government, whether it is immoral to gain access to knowledge of the internal affairs of the former government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e111	Any central official has information about confidential debates in the government. They have e.g. access to government notes, which form the basis for all matters dealt with by governments. In those notes, it is clear when and in which cases different governments disagree, which is normal in all governments. They have access to the minutes of the government conferences, and of course they have access to the general information flowing in the government apparatus. And the more central officials are, the more of that type of access to information they have. It is therefore not new that officials with access to information on discussions in the Government are appointed to political positions. Of course, these were people like Knut Vollebæk and Åslaug Marie Haga, who became the State Council and State Secretary in their departments, where they were originally officials. So it's not new either that you appoint officials from the department concerned to political positions in the same department. It was done to a greater extent in the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e116	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e119	It could have been tempting to go on with this. But if the Prime Minister doesn't see the difference between the officials who became governor in my government and their position, and the woman who became Secretary of State at Stoltenberg, then I'm really concerned about the discretion the Prime Minister exercises on such issues. Otherwise, let me point out the following: The government has announced that most of the propositions and messages the central government has promoted will be at the disposal of the Stortinget. This means that the Government is behind the main lines of central government policy in areas such as human rights, consumer policy, sport policy, the fight against child and youth crime, etc. and, in particular, agricultural and nursery policies. This is positive and can provide a basis for constructive solutions, and it is interesting because the Workers' Party was critical not least for the nursery and farm notifications. But one area where there is great disagreement How will the Prime Minister and the Government follow up the decisions taken by the majority in this matter? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e126	The President requests that the questioners deal with the allocated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e130	First of all, I just want to say that I think it's a good idea to appoint state secretaries at my office, and so I can't see the fundamental difference between officials who have access to the government's internal work and internal discussions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other departments, and those who have the same access to the Prime Minister's office. With regard to the question of the messages we have left behind, we believe that there is a basis for finding political solutions here in the Storting, and we want to seek a majority on the basis of the Storing, because the messages we wanted to remain here, because we want to find compromises in the Storting on a political basis that can give a majority of a policy we can stand behind. In the case of gas power plants and their treatment, the Minister for the Environment has on several occasions announced that we will quickly come back to how it will be treated. What we stand by is, of course, the decisions that we should modify the emission permits so that we can reduce our dependence on highly polluting power. And we will quickly come back to how it will best happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e139	Only when it comes to appointing officials to political positions: if one does not see the difference between one who has access to the government conferences and follows the oral discussions there, the strategic consultations, and those who are out of office and who do not have that access, then I just have to repeat that I am actually even more concerned about the basis of the Prime Minister's discretion. It is in practice a significant difference, and I thought I knew Stoltenberg. So to the gas power plant and the pollution law. As is well known, the Ministry of Justice’s legislative department raised serious doubts as to whether it is possible to reverse the administrative decision on CO2 emissions from gas power plants within the current law, and therefore the majority decided that, if necessary, one should amend the pollution law. It means, in my view, weakening it to open up highly polluting gas power plants in Norway. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Storting is made aware of and involved in the final assessment by the Government of the relationship between CO2 emissions and the pollution law, so that the Storting as a legislative authority is involved in that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e146	We will return to Stortinget in an appropriate form when we have completed our assessments of how we best contribute to reducing Norway’s dependence on highly polluting power, as the previous government stated. Whether it's necessary to change the law or not is a little early to say. There are different interpretations of the law department's notion, and my impression is that the main issues have not been related to CO2, because there is obviously a great deal of discretion in the law. There has been a little more discussion about the possibilities of changing the authorisation of the nitrogen oxide NOx, as the majority of the population also underlined in the setting. It will also be entirely in line with the wishes of the majority of the population both in the setting and at the processing here in Stortinget, as the matter was being dealt with in plenary. But we will then come back when we have completed our assessments of the law department's observations and other recordings, and then report back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e151	There will be follow-up questions – Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e154	The Prime Minister, in his argument for Norwegian gas power stations, has been very concerned with the highly impudent Danish coal power plants, and later in the argumentation the highly impurising Polish coal power plants. What's interesting is that if you're going to follow up on this issue, the prime minister's account is for emissions – whether there's a reduction in total emissions, as the Prime Minister has argued, by building potentially highly impoverished Norwegian gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e161	It is true that when Norway buys more and more power from our neighbouring countries, there is a need to produce more power to deliver power to Norway. I myself have been allowed to visit coal-fired power plants in Finland and in Denmark, which have been pleased with the growing power shortage in Norway and Sweden, because they have been given increased reserves, increased their production and increased their earnings. It is also true that in the years we have bought a lot of energy from Denmark, the CO2 emissions have been high, the years we have bought little, the CO2 emissions have been low. So to me, it's pretty obvious that the more power we buy from our neighboring countries, the more they produce, and the greater the emissions. This is also more calculations and studies that document, so I think it's quite clear. So it's true that I'm concerned with stressing that it's not just Danish coal power plants, but it's also German, and it's Dutch, gas power plants that get gas from Norway, that supply power to Norway and it's going to do it, and it's Polish, and it's also going to be Russian, because we've concluded import agreements with Russia through Hydro.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e170	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e173	There is strong disagreement as to the consequences of building gas power plants in Norway in relation to European CO2 emissions. The Danish Energy Agency believes that it is not possible to say that there will be a reduction in CO2 emissions due to coal power generation, even if a gas power plant is being built in Norway. But precisely because this is controversial – can the Prime Minister imagine taking the initiative for an independent review in order to identify the European impacts of Norwegian gas plant construction in a time perspective up to 2025, thus demonstrating the willingness to test own arguments against independent investigations? And here we have a good time, it'll take many years for us to build gas power plants in Norway, so we can map the decision base in a good way, if you like.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e180	Firstly, there are already various analyses from independent bodies on how this will affect Nordic emissions in total. But the main message must be that we have signed a Kyoto agreement to set an absolute ceiling on how much emissions can be. We have made it clear all along that the emissions of CO2 from Norwegian gas power plants and other emissions are, of course, to be included in the Kyoto agreement. Thus, we want a locked system by purchasing allowances to increase emissions, and then the emissions are regulated by allowances. Now I saw that Norsk Hydro and Statoil have already announced that they will contribute to the World Bank's Carbon Fund. We must make every effort to ensure that we have an allowance system in place by 2008 at the latest, and then we have a contractual guarantee that increased emissions in Norway will be compensated for by reduced emissions elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e185	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e188	There's no doubt about what's the Big One's wish price. I will not fall for the temptation to participate in it, but I will also ask the Prime Minister about the interest increases that are now both announced by analysts and also suggested by the Bank of Norway. It is clear that this has a price, a significant price both for municipalities, to provide services to the inhabitants, and for individuals, who have to pay these rates. Now I am aware that the Prime Minister has significant problems with the revision of the budget, because it is quite significant exceedances that are now ahead of the Government and that have to be covered up. But the problem is, what does the Prime Minister intend to do with the warming in the Norwegian economy that is now coming? One of the things that is easiest to deal with is new tax increases, and I want to ask the Prime Minister if he can guarantee us that such proposals he will not come back with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e194	I don't want to speculate in future interest rate developments, it can only help create uncertainty about interest rates and distort the situation. On the other hand, I would like to say in general that Norwegian interest rates are determined by several factors. They are determined by our own budgetary/financial policies, the pressures of the domestic economy, they are determined by the interest rates in our neighbouring countries, and they are determined by factors such as: cost growth and wage growth. And there it's obvious that if we can get a responsible paycheck in place, it increases the chances of having low interest rates in Norway. So it's a key. The second is, as the representative Petersen is concerned, a question of financial policy. If we do manage to pursue a responsible fiscal policy, it strengthens the possibilities of having low interest rates. There is the main problem that there are many unpaid bills that were not taken into account when the budget was adopted last year. We're talking about billions, for example. related to the KFOR forces in Kosovo, we are talking about social security, and we are also talking about other items where there is a significant need for detection in order to maintain a continued responsible fiscal policy. The government will propose that in the revised national budget we ensure the greatest possible follow-up to the already adopted budget. We therefore need to find a way to cover these unpaid bills that were there when we took over, in order to ensure the implementation of the adopted budget and thus contribute to low interest rates in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e201	I noticed that the Prime Minister did not answer my question, namely when it comes to tax increases, and I would warn against it, because it will bring the prices up further. But when this question is important, it is because today's Evening Post says that the Government will now propose tax relief to the farmers, and as far as I understand, only to the farmers. My question is then to the Prime Minister: if the Government believes that tax relief is now available, will it not be fairer if it is distributed to all the Nordics, so that both the tax and the tax levels can be reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e206	I do not want to comment on individual items in our budget until we have gone through it both in relation to the revised national budget and even more obviously in relation to the 2001 budget. But what I stress is that we want to pursue a responsible budgetary policy, and that is why there is a great demand for the collection of the bills that were there. How to cover it, we will explain when we present the revised national budget. With regard to agriculture, the situation is that there is a desire to lower prices to make Norwegian food cheaper and to make the Norwegian food industry more competitive. And if commodity prices for the food industry go down, farmers will get lower incomes, but consumers will get cheaper food. The previous government offered to compensate for this in terms of lower taxes. In the EU countries, it has been committed to compensating for it through increased transfers. It is true that the Workers' Party initially saw that it was just as likely to compensate for this through increased transfers, such as at lower taxes, but we believe that also lower taxes are a very good measure of compensating for the reduced income farmers will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e213	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e216	It seems that the Prime Minister considers financial policy to be responsible by just looking at the final sum, i.e. the balance of the state budget. Can the Prime Minister really not see that there is a significant difference in the real impact of pumping more money into the economy in the form of increased appropriations, or whether it comes in the form of reduced charges? Now we're in the middle of a paycheck, where exactly the price rise is a significant feature of the requirements. If inflation is high, the requirements are higher. Once again, moderate wage increases are difficult to achieve, and then there will be an increase in interest rates. Here the Prime Minister, despite what he has said before, has a unique opportunity. We can reduce some taxes, especially the petrol tax, and promise a petrol price of 6,50 to 7,00 kroner per litre fixed by a variable petrol charge. Then inflation decreases, then it's easier to get moderate pay settlements because there's a lower price increase, and then there's a greater hope of not getting interest rate rises. Why doesn't the Prime Minister go into this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e221	It is true that there is a difference between strengthening fiscal policy — or strengthening budgets — by increasing revenue, compared to reducing expenditure. I fully agree with Mr Hagen. But it's not that if you just reduce income, by, for example, to reduce taxes and do nothing else, it helps to reduce the pressure on the economy and reduce the risk of increased costs and interest rates. On the contrary, an uncovered tax reduction or reduction will increase the risk of excessive interest rates and high price increases in Norway. Among other things, underlined by the governor of his year, warning against tax increases, that's absolutely correct, but he also warned very clearly against what he called tax reductions without interference. Reducing some taxes without reducing other taxes or cutting costs increases the risk of excessive interest rates, high inflation and increasing unemployment. It is an irresponsible policy that this government does not stand for, even though the largest opposition party recommends it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e228	Admits Gabrielsen to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e231	The Prime Minister said that the reason he wanted to introduce tax incentives for one profession was to get cheaper food and that the food industry would get raw materials that would make it competitive. The most obvious intervention did not include the social economy: redistribution within DKK 13 billion in budget transfers to that profession. We're at the top of the world in transmission per. annual work. Of course, the most logical thing is to redistribute. If you want to reduce the tax to lower the cost of food, you should have the same approach angle to bring down the carpentry bill, the plumbing bill and the electric bill for people by reducing the tax to the same professional groups. What the Prime Minister is now saying is that the Workers' Party has turned its back on this case, and that the government is behind the tax regime that the government Bondevik put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e238	I think it's a little lingering comparison between agriculture and farmers and other professionals, joiners, for example. Snickers receive their income determined in a market for joinery services, while agriculture has earned its income determined by negotiated prices. It is a distinct industry which has been treated in a very specific way, providing aid in the form of grants, but also by fixing prices through the agricultural production process. When we then undertake to reduce prices through agricultural production in order to reduce food prices and strengthen the competitiveness of the food industry, there has been a broad consensus that somehow it has to be compensated. In the EU countries, where similar action is being taken, this has also been compensated, but through increased subsidies. There will be a technical question, and there will be a question of appropriateness in compensating for the reduced food prices, and the selling prices for agriculture, through increased subsidies or reduced taxes. So we've opened up to use reduced taxes, for example. to find policy solutions here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e245	Rolf Rekvam – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e248	Neither price growth nor wage growth in the Norwegian economy are significantly different from what we see in other countries. How strong the pressure is, we can discuss it. In addition to the unpaid bills in the department, the Stortinget, supported by the Workers' Party, has taken several important decisions which will have fiscal implications. We have adopted an increase in research. We have adopted increased efforts in relation to teachers and teacher groups and in relation to the school sector. My question to the Prime Minister – although he will not say exactly what comes into the revised national budget – is: Can we count on the pressure that is now defined that we have in the Norwegian economy to have consequences for the Government's willingness to follow up on research, on school and on education – that a person uses this so-called pressure as a reason not to follow up on these important challenges that we have in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e258	First in relation to the pressure: there was a question raised about whether we had the pressure. Well, the price rise in Norway, inflation in Norway, was 3.2 p.m. in the last 12 months, while in our competitor country it is less than 2 p.m. We have a clearly higher price increase in Norway than in the countries with which we compete. Wage growth in the last two years has been around 5 pst., up to 6 pst., significantly higher than in the countries with which we compete. In the last two years, we have lost cost competitiveness because we have had a higher price and cost growth. It worries this government, because it can help to build up the businesses we're going to live on in the future in the long term. Small, medium-sized and large losses if we don't keep track of cost growth. We are for all three types of businesses, especially when they are exposed to competition. That's why we're busy keeping track of that part of the economy, and that's why we want to limit the pressure. That is why, in the revised national budget, we will ensure that the budget that was adopted is implemented as fully as possible and will count on support for it, because it was the wish of a majority in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e267	Kjell Magne Bondevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e270	At first, I think there is reason to stress, after all the concerns that have been raised, that the Norwegian economy is currently good. We have high employment, we have low unemployment, and we have relatively limited inflation. But it is clear that the signals from the market are worrying. We have a tight labour market with a risk of cost pressures and the subsequent interest rate rise, and everyone sees the possible adverse consequences, including: into the statement of income, if any. In the case of unpaid bills, a major part of them is payment to the KFOR strength. There, the central government, like the previous Labour Party government, has been budgeted for the first six months. We have a different big bill – the increased expenditure on popular security – which is a concern for any government because it is rising sharply from year to year, and it also increases occasionally in the budget year, as one now sees the outlines of. That is why I ask – and I do so in complete sincerity: Is the Government prepared to invite a broad cross-political cooperation to limit the expenditure of the people's rights, among other things. based on the upcoming Sandman Selection settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e281	Prime Minister Stoltenberg!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e284	I am pleased that the representative Bondevik stresses that we have relatively limited inflation – in the sense that he also acknowledges that there is potentially a problem for us in relation to both price and cost growth. Otherwise I agree that basically the Norwegian economy is good. This has been the case for many years, and this is because there has been a consensus on some important key economic policies relating to the solidarity option and income policy cooperation, and the conduct of a responsible fiscal policy to help balance the fluctuations in the economy. We are open to look at how we can contribute to limiting the so-called automatic expenditure growth in the state budget, also linked to the expenditure of the population. What that actually means, what areas we can do about it, is it's too early to say anything about, but it's clear that for any government and for any expansion it's a problem that so much of the budget is tied up, and that so little revenue is actually free to pursue policies. In the case of KFOR strengths, there are significant exceedances beyond what is associated with the fact that we are also going to finance the second half of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e296	Let's get on with the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e299	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. It has become known in the last few days that the Chief Statoil Harald Norvik has had a secret pension agreement amounting to up to SEK 29 million. kr. and that if paid as agreed, it exceeds what Norvik received as a salary while he was Director of Statoil. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister think this is a decent agreement, and does he think that the numerous renegotiations until Norvik's departure are also a reasonable procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e308	At least I believe that this is an unwise agreement. I believe that this and a wide range of other examples of very generous management salaries, pension agreements and, above all, the strong increases in management salaries in the last year that have been documented in different contexts are unfortunate and unwise, not least because it helps to undermine the possibilities for a responsible income settlement. And getting a responsible income statement is essential for us to succeed in economic policy in terms of ensuring the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, which these leaders are always very concerned about, and it is crucial to avoid long-term unemployment. So I believe that it is unwise, both this and similar examples, and therefore believe that it would have been best if we had avoided that kind of agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e313	I fully agree with the Prime Minister. This is both unwise, socially very unintelligent and ‘on the whim’. And it's not because SV doesn't like part of those who are now negotiating pay, a real paylift. On the contrary, we believe that it is important, especially for the public sector, to do what is needed to recruit decent labour. But especially for those who preach moderation, it must be terriblely unmusical when the top leaders go ahead in this way. Now the Prime Minister says that this agreement is unwise and unfortunate. Statoil is a state-owned company, and when you have a government that makes unwise and unfortunate decisions, is it that the Prime Minister has confidence in the board, in the Chairman of the Board, or will he do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e320	The President will ask the representative, Mr Halvorsen, to make a choice of words which is somewhat more in parliamentary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e323	I noticed that when the representative Halvorsen used this expression we were not going to use, she said that she fully agreed with me, so I am a little uncertain about how to relate to that very word. But I'm content to say that it's unmusical, and express consensus at that point. When it comes to the relationship with Statoil, first of all, I want to say that I have confidence in the board, and that's not what we're going to do about it. It is not the case that if a government at one point makes a decision the owner thinks is unwise, for that reason changes the board, because then you will have to change the board often, and I think that is unfortunate for the company – any company. Secondly, the distribution of responsibilities between the owner and the government would be totally undermined. In the case of Norwegian companies, like other companies in which the state is a partner or a helicopter, we have based ourselves on the fact that where the state is a heavy owner, the distribution of responsibilities is clear: it is the board that is responsible for business decisions and the establishment of pay and working conditions for managers. And we don't want to interfere with that division of responsibilities, even though at one point we think it's an unwise decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e334	The Prime Minister may be allowed to sit. I'm going to ask the Minister of Defence a question about a topic that the Minister of Defence is well-known to me. This applies to St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99. I'm pleased that the Government is maintaining it. They have now given a signal about that. But that probably also means that you agree that there is – what I would call – obstruction from other “sivile” departments, which are completely unintelligible for military functions on international issues. Does the Council agree that this is not a good cause for Norway in an alliance context? And will the Council of State take new initiatives to enable other departments concerned to become supporters and not opponents in relation to the new demands that meet the defence in connection with our international operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e341	Of course, in consultation with the College, I would like to strongly condemn all obstructions against the Ministry of Defence, but I do not fully understand what the representative is aiming for. In the case of St.meld. No 38, there is an overall government that has been through an assessment, and it consists of the notification remaining in the Stortinget and being dealt with in the Storinget. So if the representative Width could be something more concrete, I might have a basis to advise some government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e346	I'll try to be. That is what I understand as a disagreement within the departments about the insurance scheme and the security scheme for our military forces to participate in foreign operations. During these days we have experienced the situation that we are unable to mann our vessels in such operations. The reason lies in what has to do with insurance schemes related to the safety of these teams. In my opinion, it gives a very bad impression towards NATO, and it can't be satisfactory either with the eyes of the Council of State. Will the Council of State take an initiative so that these arrangements can take effect as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e355	I now understand that the representative aims to have the head of defence cancelled the participation of KNM “Hinny” in NATO’s mine clearance force. The background for this is a similar ‘incident’ earlier, which, above all, underlines the need to target what is now also being discussed in the follow-up to St.meld. No 38, i.e. a right of appeal for a Norwegian order in respect of international military service. I think there is a relatively broad consensus on that in the committee – I allow myself to say that, since it is not that long since I frequented the defence committee. But at the same time, it goes without saying that there is a need for an administrative follow-up of this in the border country between the Ministry of Defence, the Supreme Command of the Defence and the command organizations that will be on the team, so that we can put in place the arrangements that this is about. And I share without a doubt the assessment that there is a need to improve the order and the arrangements of the guardians on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e362	There will be follow-up questions – Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e365	I'd like to follow up a little bit when it relates to the relationship with other departments. It was agreed a few years ago that foreign service staff should be the wage-leader for Norwegian staff abroad. This is perceived as a bit paradoxical by people who are out on operations where they risk life and limbs so to speak daily. It was one that expressed it so that these types just risk getting a champagne cork in their heads, while they're risking pomegranates themselves. Will the Council of State take action to correct this, so that the level of pay can reflect the real risk to those outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e374	I think I would first say on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is not a correct and comprehensive description of the dangers to which the foreign citizens are also exposed abroad. It is beyond doubt that the border between being in service, whether one is a diplomat in a village exposed to conflict and violence, or is in the management of a force in a similar situation — and therefore under my responsibility — is not necessarily as dramatic as it was in the past. But it is also raised to doubt that those who are under a military hat out in Kosovo or other risky areas are faced with very specific challenges that also affect their physical security. This is covered up and well described in St.meld. No 38 of the previous government. And as a basis for that, we need to put in place the arrangements that provide both command and protection, and those who have worked for that type of operation, the necessary security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e381	Hallgeir H. Langeland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e384	Part of the sun data that is down in the Balkans, including: in the KFOR forces, the right-hand side of Norwegian policy has proposed to withdraw, or at least to reduce the cost in relation to the extra bill that one has received. I myself was opposed to the action down there, but I would strongly warn you that one reduces the effort as the situation is now. So my first question is related to Norwegian efforts in the KFOR force and the Minister of Defence in relation to this. The second issue is related to the investment programme that the Defence now has and that is significant. We've got fighter aircraft investments ahead of us, we've got frigate purchases, and we've got shooting-field bags. Later today, the Minister of Defence will answer a question that goes on the Eujemo. I'm not going to ask you that – but it turns out that the investment programme you have is going beyond operations in Norway. Will the Minister for Defence wait for the 2000 Defence Study and until the Defence Policy Committee has put forward its position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e393	The President would point out that in the case of follow-up questions, they should be addressed in line with the main question, even though this was initially a little difficult to define.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e397	I assume that when the questions are still asked, I have to answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e402	It's up to the Council of State to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e405	Then I would say that in the case of KFOR, it is my absolute intention to have a continuation of the Norwegian contribution there. The government is now in a final examination of the question in the light of the very regrettable exceedances that are being discussed and that we have previously been informed through this part of the questionnaire. But I see it as impractical to step down our solidarity contribution to the strength that now ensures that there is at least a minimum of physical security for the people in the area, even though very much remains. With regard to the major economic issues related to the investments and operations of the Defence Agency, the representative is quite right that we are faced with very strong concerns here. We have for many years assumed that we will cover new investments by saving and slimming operations. That process is too slow. But these questions we're going back to in full width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e414	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e417	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The changes in the European Union have shown that the no-side has been corrected. There has been more Union, more integration economically, more use of majority decisions and more power at the expense of small ones. Foreign Minister Thorbjørn Jagland has expressed the desire for a new membership debate and that there is a need for a more offensive EU policy from the Norwegian side. Can the Prime Minister clarify the government's policy vis-à-vis the EU, and what is the basis for a more offensive line vis-à-vis the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e426	Firstly, who has been right, and who has been wrong about the 1994 debate, we are probably about as dissenting about it as we did in 1994. And it's an interesting debate to continue. For example, I believe that the dramatic enlargement of the European Union to Eastern and Central Europe is an important dimension of the European Union becoming a pan-European and thus even more important as a peace-making element in Europe, which, yes-side, was emphasised in 1994, and which was not as concerned about the no-side. As for what is the basis of the government, it is mentioned in the government statement, and we say there that the starting point is the referendum in 1994. This is, of course, the basis for the policy we are going to pursue in terms of the approach to the EU and the management of, for example: The EEA Agreement. What we want is a more active policy, that we take even greater care of Norwegian interests, but at the same time take responsibility for European development. We believe that Europe's future is Norway's future, and we believe that we should contribute in every possible way, based on the referendum, to developing cooperation with the European Union, because it is in Norway's interest and also in Europe's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e435	Of course, we can continue the debate on who was right in 1994. Enlargement to the east was also well known in 1994, and there is no extension beyond what we knew in 1994, which is currently the case. I note that the Prime Minister intends to spend a little more time on a new membership debate than the Foreign Minister has mentioned. At the latest in today's VG, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is quoted, where he says that he believes that the question of a new membership can arise as early as the next summer. So I repeat the question: What is the government's policy? Is it intended to spend ten years, as the Prime Minister has indicated, or is this debate going to rise as early as the next summer, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs is calling for?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e442	What the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been dealing with is the question of what the Workers' Party is going to do at its national meeting for the autumn. The question of whether the Workers' Party should change or adjust its programme formulations in order to give a little more freedom of action in relation to the EU issue over the next major period is a discussion we get to take in the Workers' Party. I believe that we should be able to provide formulations in our programme that will provide a slightly greater scope for action in the next major period. But first we're going to have a national meeting that will clarify what the Workers' Party will mean in the next period, and then we're going to have a choice where we're going to meet the voters with the new program. For the current period, up to the 2001 Grand Prix, the Labour Party programme, which has very clear wording that membership is not relevant, applies. And of course the government statement applies, where the starting point is the 1994 referendum. There's the Foreign Minister and I totally agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e449	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e452	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family. It is gratifying that the family policy of the centre party is now being pursued by the fact that the working party administration leaves the kindergarten message behind, and that the Minister for Children and Family Affairs will continue and manage the cash support to the small children families, even though both areas have been severely criticized. It may even be that the Minister for Children and Family now becomes aware of fathers who benefit from cash support. When she was in opposition, she knew no one, but as a government council, the possibility is perhaps better. It is important for the Christian People’s Party that we get full child care coverage. Only then will the families of children have a real choice between cash support and kindergarten. This year we will achieve full child care coverage for children over three years of age. In the newspaper on 22 March, the Minister for Children and Family said that she wanted to legislate on the right to kindergarten. The Kindergarten Communication states that the Centre Party would like to legislate an obligation for municipalities to provide nursery facilities to all families who wish to do so, once the sector is fully developed. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Minister for Children and Family think that the Kindergarten message is a good basis for further work, or does one here want a statutory entitlement to kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e461	The President will again stress that there is an assigned speaking time of 1 minute. The representatives must be able to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e465	I notice that it is now being made a major political point from the central parties that the government has chosen mainly to leave the staging messages for treatment in the Stortinget. As the representative of Molvær Grimstad is well known, the situation is, among other things. for private kindergartens, very alarming and serious. I have come to the conclusion that it is urgent to make an offensive effort to expand kindergartens in this country, after we have seen that it has actually stopped completely in the last two years. Therefore, it is urgent to deal with the nursery service. The situation of many private kindergartens will be decommissioned if the Storting does not deal with the notice in the spring session. I also feel that there is a great political consensus in Stortinget that we are going to get full kindergarten development here in the country. In the case of law enforcement, the central government of the Workers' Party believes that it is right that we get a general law enforcement in line with the one we have for the school leisure system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e474	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It is not true now that kindergarten expansion has stopped in the last few years. It's still kindergarten expansion. Some municipalities have been waiting to see what the need would be for the introduction of cash support, but it has not stopped. I fully agree with the Minister for Children and Family that action needs to be taken, not least for private kindergartens, in order to achieve a greater level of equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens. At the same time, it is interesting that the Labour Party is taking down the criticism they gave when the kindergarten message came. When you think about it, it seems that this is a good basis, and it shows that what the center part has put forward is actually a solid and good basis for achieving the goal of full child-care coverage, so that all families who want it will have the opportunity to have a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e485	I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party is now once again turning into a spokesman for kindergarten policy here in the country. It hasn't been like that in the last two years. We know that the Christian People's Party has held completely different priorities, namely to spend $3 billion on a cash support scheme that we still believe is not a lucky use of taxpayers' money. With regard to the criticism, we still believe that the message should be much more visionary in many ways, and that the content should be much more offensive. But we hope that, through cooperation with the various parties in the Stortinget, we can lay a good foundation, so that we can get an offensive focus on kindergarten policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e492	There will be follow-up questions – Inger Stolt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e495	It is quite a broad consensus in Stortinget that a person wants a comprehensive child care coverage in the country. But at the same time, we have a huge problem that one has not trained enough personnel to mannify these kindergartens. The Minister for Child and Family Affairs has now announced that the Workers' Party will launch a large-scale project with a large expansion of kindergartens. I would like to ask the Minister for Children's and Family Affairs how she intends to solve the crew problem in relation to all these kindergartens. At the same time, we see that cash support has triggered creativity in childcare for the very least in the local environment. I would like to ask whether the Minister for Children and Family Affairs agrees that private solutions outside the kindergartens help to dampen the pressure on kindergartens and thus dampen the demand for trained personnel to deal with the very least.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e502	The representative, Stolt-Nielsen, raises a serious problem regarding the staffing of kindergartens, which I will, of course, follow closely. There is no doubt that if we are to be able to have a kindergarten in the future with good quality, we are totally dependent on having well-trained pre-school teachers in the Norwegian kindergartens. So this I can assure the representative is a field that the new Labour Party government will follow closely up, and that will give us the opportunity to come back to later. With regard to private solutions and how they will work in terms of pressure on this sector, there is no doubt that we are totally dependent on getting private initiatives here. We know today that private kindergartens account for approx. half of the total offer. The Labour Party acknowledges that it is a reality we will also have in the future, and we do not think it is bad that we have such a private initiative in this area. At the same time, it is important to say that the small children's family demand is, of course, Community solutions and the safe, good public oversight systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e509	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e512	In order to arrive at the right needs for kindergartens, it is important to see what kindergarten costs. In Norway kindergartens are terribly expensive. For many families there is a cost that is completely impossible, or that makes everyday life difficult. Therefore, it is important to bring down the nursery prices if people are to have a real freedom of choice for a quality good offer to their children. What are the objectives of the Workers' Party in order to bring down the nursery prices, and what system has the Workers' Party intended to pursue the cash support? Can they, for example, would you like to see more about the Finnish system, where the cash support is lower and is combined with a low maximum price in kindergartens and a guarantee of having kindergartens within quite short time limits?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e519	The Labour Party believes that we have three main challenges in child and family policy, and one of them is, of course, being able to reduce parental pay. It is, of course, a goal for this government. There is no doubt that the trend we have had in price levels — especially in private kindergartens, where we see an increase of about 10 %. 6 pst. for last year – not a development that we think is lucky. But at the same time, we're dependent on playing teams with the municipalities. We know that it's the municipalities that will mainly be responsible for the new construction we're going to have here in the country. We also have a intention of a third between the municipality, the state and the parents, where the municipality will take its 30 pst. serious. What is the situation today is that a lot of the municipalities don't take their 30 pst. seriously, but passes it on to the parents. This is not a good situation, and I hope that the work that is now being done in Stortinget through the processing of the message can just do the situation so that the municipality takes it more seriously, so that the parental payment can go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e528	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e531	I record again that the new family minister criticises the use of NOK 3 billion for cash support and believes that this is a large sum in relation to the result we may get from it. I would like to challenge the new Minister to provide me with an account, because I note that, according to the evening post yesterday, the new Minister for Family Affairs wants to expand the maternity leave by 20 weeks, they also want full child care coverage by 2003, and then it is interesting to look at the cost question in relation to it. Once the Minister for Family Affairs has fulfilled his desire for all children under school age in kindergarten and two years of maternity leave, I would like to see the family minister's expenses in that area compared to NOK 3 billion in cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e541	Now it is not that we have had a political exceptional situation here in the country as we received the cash support, and I hope the representative understands that the programming process in the various parties is going on. The Labour Party is in the middle of it, and we will, of course, prepare a policy for the future at the national meeting for the autumn. One of the proposals made by the Women's Movement of the Labour Party is to expand the arrangements that young children's parents see as good, namely to extend maternity leave and to have full childcare coverage. I notice that in many ways the representative is drawing on the way we spend the taxpayers' money. I cannot believe that the representative does not share my view that NOK 3 billion for cash support is unreasonable when we know that the cash support only leads to two and a half hours more real time a week. Is the representative of Sandberg really satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e548	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e551	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. According to the Dagbladet today, the Prime Minister has asked the members of the government to learn the Public Relations Act. It is very timely, because it has been a feature of the previous governments in which Stoltenberg has participated, that the Councils of State have neither understood nor respected the Public Health Act. Whether learning the law means that you will also follow the intention remains to be seen. So far, there have been ominous signals. Neither the Declaration of Accession nor the ten-minute speeches by the Minister of Labour and Administrative Affairs during the debate in Stortinget were said to be one word about transparency in administration. And it's not just the Left that has reacted to this. The Secretary-General of the Norwegian Press Association, Per Edgar Kokkvold, points out in an article, ‘Two Holes in a Speech’, the alarming fact that as part of the renewal of the public sector, obviously there is no transparency. So I want to ask the Prime Minister if the signals that have been picked up, as done by the Left and the Press Alliance, are unfounded, and that one will follow up the initiative of the central government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e560	Firstly, the Government Declaration and the Public Relations Act. It is such that my government statement was a little longer than a government statement has normally been. Nevertheless, the main comments are what I was not able to say about. But it is not that what is not mentioned in the government statement, things Government is not concerned about or opposed, for example. publicity and merpublicity. At our first ordinary government conference, the government spent time going through how we can contribute to the realisation of the intentions and objectives of the Public Health Act, both in terms of complying with the provisions and in terms of exercising more openness. And the crucial thing must be not just what we say, but what we actually do. And it's from the Government's side an attempt and a measure that we're going to review the legislation to make ourselves aware of how we can contribute to the greatest possible publicity, starting with the first day. We did that because we know from the experience of public law, both under the previous government and past governments, that there is often a lack of knowledge of the possibilities that the law provides, which means that more is being exempted from publicity than is strictly necessary. So there we are very busy practicing publicity – and not just publicity, but more publicity – and have started it from day one. And Jørgen Kosmo actually used part of his contributions in the debate on the government statement to underline the same point, namely that we should follow the Public Relations Act, practise it openly and seek more openness in relation to the provisions of the law. So that's something that's already declared by Jørgen Kosmos.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e565	I choose to interpret the signals that now came, positive. And the Prime Minister can tell his government that the Left will follow them very critically, to ensure that the offensive that the central government had in this area is followed up. Because it's a line change when Stoltenberg now announces that he's going to bet on transparency – the Jagland government was the hallmark of decision-making in the closed rooms. I have a specific question: as part of the follow-up to the public announcement, it is now up to Parliament to put forward legislative proposals for the Stortinget in April for greater transparency. Can the Prime Minister promise that this follow-up work on the legislative side will be prioritised? So one more question: when it comes to the renewal of the public sector, it often happens that services are transferred to companies that are not covered by the Public Sector Act. Does the Prime Minister see it as a problem that more and more of the public activities are managed by companies that are not covered by the Public Service Act and will he be included when the Left speaks to extend the Public Service Act in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e574	I noticed that the representative Kvassheim thought it was a problem under former workers' party governments that decisions were made in the closed rooms. Now I have the impression that it was also done in the previous government, and that there is something of the problem, that we are concerned that others will not have access to the information that appears in the closed rooms. Having said that, I would like to stress that the disclosure law must be practised so that we can make decisions and have internal proceedings in the government apparatus. I felt that the central government, too, was aware that we were going to undermine the possibility, for example. for written proceedings if, for example: the processor of government notes and government notes became public. So the point is not that everything should be public all the time, the point is that anything that can be public without damaging and destroying a tidy process or privacy should be public. It is about raising awareness of regulations, and that work will be given priority – and has already been given priority by spending time on this issue at the first government conference. Further changes in the law should also give priority to this, but I dare not promise any time for it to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e581	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going over to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e586	There will be a change in the question list, and the President will refer in this context to what has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 13, from the representative of Øyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e598	I ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘The Chief of Defence has expressed the wish to co-locate the administrative schools of Oslo. The management school in Halden has good traditions, suitable premises and a good and constructive cooperation with Eastfold District College in languages, IT and economics. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the Administrative School in Halden continues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e607	One of the objectives of the Migration Process of Defence is to coordinate training across defence sectors where appropriate. Where possible, civil higher education and university environments should form the basis for the build-up of competence, rather than building up their own environments of competence in defence. As far as possible, the training systems of the defence industries shall be based on the same reading and on the guidelines set out in St.meld. No 22 for 1992-93 and St. Prp. No 38 for 1995-96. Today, as a well-known management training in the Defence of the Army's administrative school in Halden, the Air Force schools of Stavern and the KNM "Tordenskjold" in Bergen. Education is parallel and partly overlapping. As part of the work on finding solutions to the comprehensive organisational and economic challenges of defence, 11 concrete actions have been developed and promoted to be explored during the spring. One of these is the coordination of administrative training. Implementation proposals shall be made before 1 July 2000. Coordination of administrative training includes, inter alia: with a view to providing rational and cost-effective solutions to meet the overall needs of Defence, including the establishment of a new career-oriented and specialised training platform across defence sectors. In this context, it shall include, inter alia: consider greater use of distance learning, use of civil training places, regional courses, modular training arrangements, etc. The educational model will be a basic premise for recommending the location of school activities. Therefore, localisation issues are completely open and it is currently too early to address alternatives. I have noticed that the Administration School in Halden has a good and constructive cooperation with the Eastfold District College. This will be taken into account in the assessment of possible future coordination of management training in the Defence and its location. The Defence Manager shall investigate the relevant options and make his recommendation to the Ministry. The Ministry will then review and assess the recommendation within a comprehensive defence policy framework where the future presence of the defence on the Fredriksten fortress in Halden will also be one of many important elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e622	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that what is important for this educational offer at the administrative school in Halden is now in a way to get an overview of the future that this school can expect as soon as possible. It is a school that has a very good offer, and not least it is a school that has close cooperation with the district professional environment at the Halden District College. The Declaration of Accession of the Government of Stoltenberg stated that there was a desire to maintain a decentralised structure. Now that we know that the alternative of the head of defense is to co-locate this school offer in Halden to the Oslo pot, where there are neither educational facilities nor housing, this is going to be somewhat strange, and I expect the head of defence to take a constructive look at this matter. I ask him to take this signal seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e631	The procedure in this case is as I said in my first answer, and I am well aware that the head of defence has not made any final recommendation. I will consider the matter in the light of the points I made in my first answer. It is clear that the simplest thing in the world for a defence minister who will soon become popular is to answer ‘yes’ to 165 questions from all the representatives in this room on anything that might be of possible important questions, but then the Stortinge would probably end up with a fasit that no one in the Stortinge really likes. I am also required by previous decision-making and other obligations to go through a wide range of structural issues in order to ensure that we have a rational use of the money that the Stortinge is so kind to grant, and this connection must unfortunately be seen in all the questions, but I think the representative is also fully aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e638	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but in this context I also want to draw attention to the fact that Halden is in a very special situation in relation to the fact that a number of decisions have been taken at the central level on small and large relocations within different departments. In sum, this means a lot to this district, and that's what makes the whole Halden environment really react now. When there is such a good and constructive cooperation, and there are premises at the fastening plant, where the school works very well, it is incomprehensible that one, as well as this time, despite the fact that the Stoltenberg Government in the Declaration of Accession says that no co-location or relocation into central areas will take place, this is precisely what is happening. That's when I have a strong desire and almost oblige the Minister of Defense to do anything to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e643	No, of course, I have no problem understanding the reasons why the representative asks that question, and in my answer I have given some – at least a couple – assessments that in themselves should not give the basis to say that I am not aware of the many strengths of the Halden option, but it would be wrong if we gave the phase in all such questions now. This does not mean that the issues raised will not be raised in a strong and timely way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e651	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Defence Manager has proposed to move most of the activity from the Eujemo to Oslo, which will lead to large investments. At the same time, the Swedish Defence Study 2000 is ongoing, and the Swedish Defence Policy Survey is working towards a comprehensive assessment of the entire defence, including through the long-term notification. Would it not be natural to await changes in the Army, and see everything in a context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e660	Yes, very much speaks for it. When the Ministry of Defence received on 14 March the Chief of Defense's recommendation concerning the Army's power production, the background was as follows: One of the basic premises for the investigations in the Defence Study 2000 and in the Defence Policy Selection is that the mandates of the HM Kongen Guard should be continued independently of structure. The deployment of a continuous service can therefore in principle be seen independently of the ongoing investigations and regardless of future changes in the Army. The recommendation of the Defence Manager concerns the introduction of continuous service at the Garden and the transfer of training of auxiliary staff to other free-of-charge training units. As a consequence, the head of defence proposes the closure of the education department at the Agder Regiment on the Eujemo. Continuous service means that commands and ratings are put together in departments from the first day onwards and can start targeted training against their operational function earlier than through the implementation of an isolated recruitment training. Such service has been carried out in most other departments of the Army with positive results. However, at the centre of the decision-making basis on the continuous service of the Garden is also the future of the Eujemo and the role of the camp in the training of soldiers. The Defence Study 2000 and the Defence Policy Selection shall make recommendations on the scope and organisation of the defence. Recommendations will be key underlying factors when the Government is preparing a new long-term defence notification. Adaptation of power production in the peace structure to the demands of the war structure will have consequences for many – perhaps all – garrisons around the country. No military camp throughout the country is guaranteed to have the same content as it now has. Coordination of joint activities across the defence sectors and the Home Office, the regional and territorial organisation of the defence and the top management of the defence are among the elements to be considered in order to create a functional and cost-effective defence organisation. And I'm stressing: here it also applies to the top and not just the bottom of the system. In the context of the long-term communication, the Evjemo will be assessed within a comprehensive defence policy framework. This overall framework also includes the desire to give land defence a geographical anchor in all parts of the country. In this context, I refer to the comments of the Defence Committee on the long-term plan for the current period, which is known as: ‘But, in the opinion of the Committee, it is necessary to maintain a link for the defence of the South-West, and it is natural that the Eujemo should be maintained and maintained as a centre for such a link with that part of the country.’.» Any Minister of Defence should place considerable emphasis on this. Both the Evjemo and other military settlements have to be assessed to the seventh and final stage in the overall perspective of the representative, Mr Halvorsen, on his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e689	I thank you for your answer. The outgoing government created uncertainty among the defence personnel and in the municipalities because of many cracking signals. I am pleased that the new government will now see things in a larger and structured context. Of course, the investigations and studies and, finally, the long-term communication will review the content of all military camps. However, I am very pleased that the Minister of Defence stresses that the defence should be geographically anchored in all parts of the country and that the Minister of Defence confirms the parliamentary and democratic naturalities that he will place considerable emphasis on the opinions of the Storting. I just want to end by asking if the Council of State believes that the suspension of the Defence Policy sample and the Defence Study 2000 will be completed by the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e696	Without prejudice to the fact that not all signals are filtered to the Council of State, I believe the answer to that is yes. It's a prerequisite to have a pace and an advance in this work that makes us put things in place at the investigative level, so that my basis for promoting a new long-term message for the Storting is as good as possible. It suggests that we try to keep the timetable in this work, and I trust that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e710	‘At the annual meeting of the Norway’s Lastebileier Association at the Sola on 4 March 2000, it was informed that trailers leaving the country with much more diesel on the tank than they need for their job abroad have difficulties in obtaining receipt of diesel purchased in Norway, but have to pay for a total of over 200 litres when they return. What will the Council of State do to solve this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e717	Under current legislation, an export declaration is to be submitted to Customs for all goods exported from Norway. If the same goods are returned in the same condition as the goods, they are exempt from customs duties and VAT, but not excise duties. However, this assumes that the export declaration is provided as evidence that it is the same commodity that is reintroduced. Similar provisions do not exist for excise duties, e.g. the excise duty on motor diesel. If the value of the product does not exceed NOK 5000, the export declaration need not be provided if the product has already been dutyed or manufactured in this country. However, the export declaration may be provided where there is a need for evidence in the event of a subsequent re-introduction. Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal Association has expressed the wish that Norway introduce a model similar to that in force in Germany. On export from Germany, the carrier declares the number of litres of fuel on the tank to the customs service. The customs authority carries out a physical check on the tank and prints out an ‘approval note’ on the number of litres of fuel. When the carrier returns, he presents the ‘admission application’ to the German customs service. In addition to the duty-free quota, he may then introduce, free of charge, the amount of fuel contained in the ‘admission application’. In this context, the customs services carry out a physical check on the tank. The German scheme provides for a tax exemption even if the fuel used is used up outside the country's borders and the tank is filled with fuel purchased abroad. Under the Norwegian provisions, only goods which have previously been in this country can be imported free of customs duties and VAT in addition to the duty-free quota of 200 litres. An exemption in line with the German model would require an amendment to the current legislation and would result in fuel being put in a special position in relation to other goods on importation. The system will be resource-intensive for Customs and time-consuming for carriers by the presentation of export declarations and checks even when carriers leave the country. Due to the high level of fuel charges in Norway compared to, for example, Germany, regular physical checks on fuel tanks will be necessary to avoid abuse of the scheme. The system will therefore involve much more cumbersome procedures at the border than is the case today, and I therefore have per. Today, no plans are being made to propose such a system here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e733	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that there is no plan in any way to facilitate the situation of Norwegian carriers who have short assignments abroad, who are stopped at the border on the way in and have to pay for goods they have purchased in Norway. If one, as the Minister of Finance said, is to establish a control system on both sides of the border, both of imports and exports, that is to say, Customs resources are dedicated to controlling fuel instead of controlling all other goods that flow around the illegal market in Norway. However, the Minister of Finance does not see that harmonisation of the price level of diesel will facilitate the problems of the transport sector, and that today's system highly favours non-resident carriers in relation to Norwegian carriers, and that carriers coming from, for example. The West and will a short errand move to Denmark and be penalised when they come back, will have a significant problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e740	In general, as regards the diesel tax and the framework conditions for the truck industry, I intend to return to an assessment of it in the revised national budget 2000. With regard to the specific questions about the German system raised by the representative, it is my opinion that it will carry with it so much extra administration and extra measures both by the authorities and by the industry itself, that I do so. currently does not consider it appropriate to introduce such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e747	I thank the Minister of Finance again for the answer and note that the Minister of Finance acknowledges that the Norwegian level of fees has created a problem. A majority in the UK has created a problem for the transport industry that one does not intend to solve with the first. The increased diesel charges have also caused significant problems throughout the District of Norway in terms of increased costs of public transport, with threats to bus routes in large parts of the country. Collective transport is under the responsibility of the counties, and they already have a hard enough economy. What will the Minister of Finance do to prevent the reduction of the provision of public transport services in District Norway as a result of poor impact-based charging policies undertaken in cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Central Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e756	First, let me point out that with regard to the difference between the Norwegian level of fuel taxes and the level of taxes found in some other countries, the differences within the Stortinget — especially between the majority and the Right — are not so large that it would in itself have changed the picture so that Norway had a lower level of charges than in other countries. In this respect, I think that the distance between the proposals in the Stortinget is less than what can sometimes be seen in the public debate. With regard to the representative's questions about the evolution of the level of fees, I must first be allowed to show that the budget for 2000 has been adopted by the Stortinget, and that is the government's position. But I have notified a review of these issues in the revised national budget. With regard to the issue of public transport, there is something outside the main issue that has been raised today, and I will be shown that, of course, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Municipal Affairs are constantly considering these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e768	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘Only 0,12 pst. of all diesel sold in January 2000 had a sulphur content so high that an additional charge would be paid. Will the Council look at this sulphur tax, as well as generally at the diesel price, so that Norway can offer the truck industry and other diesel consumers a price that may be similar to that in our neighbouring country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e777	It is true that a very low proportion of what was delivered to the main tankers in January was charged with a sulphur charge. The reason is that because of the sulphur tax, oil companies found it profitable to produce and supply low-sulfur diesel, and that the companies had the capacity to do so. The supply of low-sulfur diesel to the depots has increased so much faster than envisaged in the budget proposal, where a phase-in phase-in period of 2000 was calculated technically. The international market price of low-sulphurised diesel is higher than the price of other diesel and this price difference must be assumed to be reflected in the consumer price. In the case of a switch to low-sulphurised diesel, the selling price will therefore not decrease as much as the expiry of the sulphur tax might be expected. Furthermore, the price to the consumer will depend on the competition between the different distribution companies on the Norwegian market. However, there is little reason to believe that profit margins in the industry have generally increased as a result of the sulphur tax and the conversion to low-sulphur diesel. As regards the diesel tax and the framework conditions for the truck industry, I will come back with an assessment of this in the revised national budget 2000. In this context, I would also like to inform you about the phase-in of low-sulphur diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e786	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not – as I see it – any promise of a possible price reduction for diesel before in the revised national budget 2000. The 25-piece fee was introduced on 1 January to attract oil producers to produce environmental diesel with 0,005 pst. sulphur content. If you count with the VAT, the sulphur tax led to a price increase of 31 cents. Does the Council of State think it right that the transport industry should be charged a levy that does not function after the intention when this type of diesel is not available to most, precisely because of the problems of production and storage of oil companies? In Sweden, a six-year period was spent on this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e793	Diesel with a maximum sulphur content of 0,005 pst. will be mandatory in the EU in 2005, and the purpose of the new sulphur tax was to meet EU diesel requirements at an earlier date. Diesel with a maximum of 0,005 pst. sulphur content appears to have taken over the unlabelled diesel market today. Information on the share of unlabelled diesel charged with a sulphur tax in January can confirm this. In January, a sulphur charge of about 140 000 litres was paid, while a diesel charge of 30 million litres was paid. There is some uncertainty as to how much low sulphur diesel is delivered to the main installations, because oil companies are given the opportunity to shift the payments. The market price of low-sulphurised diesel is higher than the price of other diesel, but the price difference varies over time due to changes in supply and demand for these products internationally. As long as the difference is less than the sulphur charge of 25 øre per. litre, it is profitable for oil companies to supply low sulphur diesel to the Norwegian market, and that is probably the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e800	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope and believe that the Council of State sees the seriousness of the high fuel prices Norway has, so that we can still have living districts, and that we can avoid getting an ever-increasing border trade, among other things. because of the diesel price. In my area on the Swedish side, namely Bograngen, diesel is sold for SEK 6.80 in Swedish currency, almost NOK 3 cheaper than in Norway. Does the Council of State realize that you are travelling there for, among other things, to fill up their diesel tanks, and then to trade other goods and thus increase the border trade?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e807	The government has focused on the issues posed by our growing border trade, and it is obvious that fuel is among the so-called baits that can help to influence the level of border trade. So that said, it's like we have an overall economic structure that a majority in the Grand Duchy has put behind us, and that implies the level of charges set. I am prepared to review these issues in the revised budget, so that the Storting can discuss them. I would also like to stress that we do not have any information to suggest that low-sulphur diesel is not supplied to the whole country. Information from oil companies suggests that they have the capacity to supply the entire Norwegian market with unlabelled diesel of this quality. It is also difficult to see localised costs of supplying low-sulphur diesel rather than high-sulphur diesel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e819	I will ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘The Member State’s food surveillance considers that our imports of Danish beef last year were 14 tonnes. These figures are based on data provided by the Directorate for Customs and Charges. The Danish meat industry has figures that they exported 55,8 tonnes of beef to Norway from January to November 1999. How can such abuses arise, the customs and control system is so random and poor, and what will the Council of State do in order to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e828	According to information obtained by the Ministry of Agriculture from the State Food Authority, 15 890 kg of beef and veal have been imported from Denmark and have been declared customs in respect of Tollvesen as imports into Norway. In addition to this quantity, beef is exported from Denmark to Norwegian customs warehouses, such as: intended for sale to ships engaged on international voyages and to oil installations in the North Sea. Furthermore, the Norwegian food industry imports beef from Denmark for processing in Norway for subsequent exports. These imports are not intended for consumption in Norway and are not included in the statistics on imported beef from Denmark in 1999. Travelers from Denmark who have been outside Norway for at least 24 hours may, as they know, carry up to 3 kg of meat. This legally imported meat quota is not included in the statistical material. It is not known what the Danish meat industry is basing its figures on, but it is assumed that the total export to Norway is based on the total amount of beef exported from Denmark. This also includes meat not declared as imported into Norway but included by travellers to Norway, meat taken for sale to ships engaged on international voyages and for use in the Norwegian oil installations in the North Sea, and meat consumed for processing by the Norwegian food industry for subsequent exports. The figures from the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the figures from the Danish meat industry will therefore not coincide. The Directorate of Customs and Fees has recently addressed the Danish authorities in order to obtain, if possible, an overview of exports to Norway based on the same product numbers on which the Norwegian statistics are based. I assume that the deviations will find their explanation through the contact that is now established with the Danish authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e841	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is not true that the figures with which one operates from Denmark are based on the total amount of beef exported from Denmark to Norway, among others. is the legally imported meat quota per. person not included here. Danish meat industry itself says that the figures they use only include exports to a value above NOK 6500 – export of fresh or frozen meat to human food, and exports based on export licences. In 1998, 47 tonnes of beef – 47 000 kg were imported. The drop in imports of 33 tonnes between 1998 and 1999 is at a disadvantage at a time when meat consumption is only increasing. I have to say that there are things that indicate that someone here has such bad numbers that something has to be done in this context. Both the State Food Authority and the Central Statistical Office base their figures on the figures of the Customs Directorate, and then it has to be checked and adjusted in that department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e850	It is always desirable to have the most accurate statistics, and that is also the background to the enquiry sent by the Directorate of Customs and Fees to the Danish authorities to obtain an overview of exports to Norway based on the same product numbers on which the Norwegian statistics are based. Nevertheless, I think I should stress that although the imports carried by travellers from Denmark should not have been included in the Danish statistics, it is enough that there is considerable volume in meat which is not declared as being imported into Norway but which is either used for ships on international voyages, for oil installations, or for the food industry for further export. Based on the information I have per year. Today, I find reason to believe that that's what explains the different numbers. An enquiry has been made to the Danish authorities to obtain additional material if possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e857	I record what the Minister of Finance says, but it still remains to explain why imports have fallen by 33 tonnes from 1998 to 1999, and how to explain 40 tonnes. Ole Meland, who represents the meat industry in Denmark, says that he can hardly imagine that 3⁄4 of all their exports go to shipping and what the Minister of Finance said here. It's another serious side of this, like, among other things. Ecocrim has recorded recently. First lawyer Jørn Holme in Økokrim says: ‘Just because of the Veterinary Agreement, which we considered to be a weakening of import protection last year, Ecocrim considers it important to focus on the measures taken by the authorities to safeguard the population against undesirable bacteria from abroad.’ And he goes on to say, ‘The Code must be enforced and applied much more stringently than at present’ – this also from the point of view of Mr Folkehelsa, that there is at least a need to control imports at large. And that's what I'm dealing with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e874	Now the representative's question to me is based on the statistics and the extent of the total introduction from Denmark. That's the background for my answer. When it comes to the control of deliveries made to ships, the deliveries made to oil installations, and the supplies on the basis of which further exports are made, there will be a different kind of question. I assume that the relevant authorities will ensure that the verification is carried out in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e884	‘It has been found in the media that several car owners have not received a claim for the payment of an annual tax for 2000. This is due to the fact that old postal numbers have been used in the Customs and Charges Directorate. Despite the fact that the non-payment is caused by a manifest error on the part of the Directorate of Customs and Fee, a reminder fee is still levied as a result of a non-payment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that no reminder fee is charged for cases where non-payment is due to the country’s own faults?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e891	After the Stortingen Tax Decision, an annual tax is payable to the State Treasury. The fee is due to be paid on 15 March and the fee that has not been paid within due time is to be increased by 250 kroner, which is then called an additional fee. When the year fee for 2000 was sent out, some claims were sent to incorrect or defective addresses. The background for this was the inadequacy of the Customs system in adapting the computer systems to new postcodes. Of the year's 2.3 million annual fee demands, approx. 53 000 claims sent with this postal number error. However, most of them were brought to the recipient. The customs authorities received approx. 2 500 claims in return, which in agreement with the post office was then distributed. Samples have not detected errors of the above extent and on this basis only a relatively limited number of owners of cars are assumed to be affected. The Ministry of Finance has been in contact with the Directorate of Customs and Fees on the matter. It is agreed that the imposition of an additional charge may be unreasonable in cases where the fault address of the Customs Authority is the reason for the late receipt of the payment form by the owner of the car and that this is the reason why the payment period has been missed. To this end, the Customs and Fee Directorate will establish a mechanism to avoid the additional charge when, in such cases, the vehicle owner pays the normal annual fee as soon as possible after the deadline. In this way I assume that the matter will be resolved in a reasonable manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e906	I would like to thank you for your answer. The Council of State deserves credit for not only solving the big and important issues, but also taking the time to solve what can be called small things. This should never be a matter. When the State has made a mistake, it is unreasonable for individuals to be charged. I understood the Council of State that a system is now being set up in the Directorate of Customs and Fees so that we can avoid this kind of embarrassment in the future, and that this will have a general impact on the government's collection of fees when the state is responsible for delays, so that private individuals will not be charged a reminder fee. I am simply asking the Council of State to confirm that this will be of general importance and not only in this case as regards the annual tax on the car.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e913	I agree with the representative that this should not have been a matter, and I am glad that we managed to resolve it very quickly. Under the Constitution it is that taxes and charges are adopted by the Stortinget, and most excise duties relate to specified goods and are collected in accordance with the so-called declaration principle, i.e. that the taxable person himself must calculate and pay the correct levy within specified time limits. In this case, it has therefore been my opinion that the reasonableness was that no additional fee was imposed in the cases where it was not the one to pay, which was itself due to the fact that the payment had not been made. That is why it has been cleared in relation to this case. As regards the general, we take with us experiences from what happened in this case, and then we will be allowed to give a more detailed explanation if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e923	It should be my great pleasure to ask our new municipal and regional minister her very first question-time question as a newly-baked municipal minister. It reads as follows: ‘According to the East German post on 8 March 2000, a Norwegian resident in a housing law apartment at Tagtvedt in Larvik is denied a satellite antenna set up on his porch. As part-time employees of the Consumers' Cable Network Association, this person needs a separate satellite antenna in his involvement with the FKF. [[FCF]] At Tagtvedt, however, only people with a foreign background are allowed to have their own satellite antennas, so the Nordics are denied the same thing. This seems too many completely unreasonable. Can't this provoke racism?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e932	A housing law is a private company. The residents are joint owners of the company while having a rental right for each of their homes. The title of the building is attributed to the law of residence, including the authority to permit the entry of satellite antennas on balconies and terraces. The right of rental of residents does not permit the installation of satellite antennas on the verandas without the specific permission of the law on housing. The second paragraph of Section 5-4 of the House Rental Act therefore requires residents to apply to the board of directors of the housing law for permission to set up parabolic antennas unless such permission has been introduced by the statutes. In deciding on the application for the listing of satellite antennas, the law of residence shall not discriminate indiscriminately. This means that the law of residence may authorise the listing of such antennas to certain groups and prohibit the use of antennas by others only if justified. What is factually discriminatory must be based on a very concrete assessment. The Ministry is not aware of any case-law on discrimination in the listing of satellite antennas. A unitary who considers that he is indiscriminately discriminated against may ask the general meeting to amend the Board’s decision. If the general meeting does not want to do this, and he wants to pursue the case, he must bring an action against the law of residence. It is the courts which have to settle such disputes — the ministry does not have jurisdiction in such matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e942	I thank you for your answer. This is therefore a matter of the fact that the municipality of Larvik has threatened a person with the expulsion of a municipal apartment if he did not remove a satellite antenna standing on a veranda floor, even though the municipality knows that this person needs this equipment to do his job for the Consumers' Cable Network Association. At the same time, all foreign-language residents in this housing block are allowed to install their own satellite antennas as much as they would like. Of course, the ears of most of the North are scrambled. Such examples arouse anger, anger and indignation, and it can provoke racism, because it is perceived as a very unfortunate discrimination that favors immigrants rather than the North. Can the Council of States say whether this discrimination in favour of immigrants we are talking about here is based on Norwegian legislation, or, as she was involved in, is in line with Norwegian case law in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e947	I cannot decide on the specific matter, but, as I said in my main response, it is the law of residence that must decide such things. And if there is one who feels discriminated against in a court of law, he must ask the general meeting to amend the board's decision if necessary. I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e952	I notice that answer. But this matter is really about accepting or not accepting that it is okay to grant foreign cultural persons special rights that are denied to those who are originally from the country. I would like to continue by saying that giving foreign cultural people special advantages that are denied to their original inhabitants is a very unwise way of dealing with immigration and integration policies. A positive discrimination against foreign-speaking people, which is perceived as manifestly unfair by a majority of the Norwegian people, will only make this extremely difficult and demanding integration process even more unmanageable. Does not the Council of State agree that discrimination is unfortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e957	I can't or will not go in and direct each type of housing right in relation to the construction of satellite antennas. It's up to the housing laws to govern. As I also said in my main response, there should be good reasons for discriminating, but I have no opportunity or condition to go into the specific matter. As I also said, if there is anyone who feels discriminated against, it must be addressed with the right of residence, and then, if necessary, through the general meeting to amend the board's decision. But I would also like to say that I would warn against most things being made a matter of racism or not racism. This is a matter that needs to be addressed with the relevant housing law, and in which I as a municipal minister have no opportunity to intervene.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e967	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘The nurses act this year for a higher salary by refusing to take temporary jobs during the holiday settlement in Norwegian hospitals. This action could lead to serious operational problems throughout the country during the summer. Can the Council of States do anything in this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e976	The representative Alvheim refers to the actions of the nursing students for higher wages. As I understand it, this is primarily about an action to raise the initial salary for nurses. If such action had been organised and implemented under the auspices of a trade union, it would have violated the duty of peace and thus be illegal. That's not the case here. There are no agreements for nursing students to take temporary jobs during vacation time, and in this context the students will be considered as regular jobseekers. Thus, nursing students are formally considered to be any person seeking employment. Their action is not under the control of any trade union, and is not formally illegal. Wages and salaries of nurses, including initial salaries, are determined by negotiation between the social partners. As a specialist council, I do not want to take part in any discussion about salary claims in advance of a tariff settlement. It is right that, among other things: Norwegian hospitals are dependent on qualified extra assistance during holiday settlement. As Minister of Health, I would like to contact the Local Councils to be briefed on the operational problems that may result from the actions mentioned. I will keep myself carefully informed about the consequences of the action, and evaluate the situation from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e989	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am reasonably satisfied with the contact with the KS. Although I personally agree that the pay and work conditions for both nurses and caregivers should improve, I have no sense of this type of action, which must necessarily go beyond the third person, and in this case sick people. However, I believe that the employer, the county councils, has a very great responsibility for the situation that can now arise. Health employers must take health professionals more seriously than they have so far. Several hospitals have developed emergency plans if the boycott were to strike. I am familiar with, among other things, Eastfold County has plans to close three of its five hospitals for seven weeks during the holiday settlement. And my follow-up question is: Does the Minister of Health know per. the current date for several counties to add to such drastic plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e998	When it comes to the sense of this kind of action, I just repeat what I said about having this been an action under the control of a trade union, it would have been illegal. So that's not the case here, but it might say a little bit about the sense of action as well. My answer to the supplementary question is that I do not know specifically that several county councils have such crisis plans as this one refers to, but that is of the things I expect to be informed about through my contact with the local authorities' Central Association.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1005	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Unfortunately, Norwegian Nursing Association has largely achieved its objective of expelling the caregivers from public hospitals. Had not been the case, such a situation as we can now experience would have been much easier to deal with by having more help nurses with special skills employed in our public hospitals. What can and will the Minister of Health do to recruit help nurses to a public hospital and provide them with the necessary additional training to take over part of the responsibilities of nurses?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1012	I do not have a specific answer to Alvheim's question, but I just have to say that there is a question I will come back to when dealing with the issue of recruitment to the hospital sector in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1020	I have a new question for the Minister of Health: «The municipality of Ullensaker has a service of its medical centre, which is contrary to the regulations of the State Health Authority of 20 August 1990, and what is worse is that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in a letter of 13 December 1996, granted an unlimited derogation to the municipality of Ullensaker to derogate from the requirement of medical staff in the medical centre. Does the Council have an overview of how many other municipal medical centres that have received exemptions from the Staff Regulations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1029	It is true that the municipality of Ullensaker was granted a derogation from the requirement in the regulation on emergency medical services for medical care centres to be staffed by health professionals, preferably nurses. The dispensation was not granted for a specific period of time, but was not unlimited either. The exemption decision made provision for the municipality to seek to hire health professionals in the event of future additions. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has granted corresponding derogations with similar conditions to a total of 19 municipalities. The background for granting a derogation to these municipalities was a lack of available qualified health professionals for the posts in question. In addition to these exemptions, the State Health Authority has also granted a derogation to some municipalities. In connection with the establishment of emergency medical services, which started in 1990, the Health Authority granted several exemptions for up to two years. Recently, three exemptions have been granted by the Health Authority until the end of 2001. These municipalities have now taken action to ensure that the posts are occupied by health professionals by the end of the deadline. I would like to ask the State Health Authority as the top supervisory authority to ensure that the situation in the municipalities that have been granted a derogation is followed up, so that one is assured that the requirement of professionally sound operation is met.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1040	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I am pleased with. If our medical clinics around the country had had a permanent routine that all medical enquiries from patients or relatives were to be answered by a central janitor, of course, non-health professionals could be allowed to operate the phone. Unfortunately, the procedures seem to be the very opposite, namely that the doctor should always be saved for enquiries, and the severity of the enquiries should be assessed by the personnel receiving the phone. If you have these centers manned with non-health personnel, this could have disastrous consequences, which I actually personally experienced for a short time back. Will the Minister of Health ensure that all exemptions granted from the requirement to staff the medical wards with health professionals are withdrawn, or that a short period is allowed for the recruitment of health professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1049	I have so far not considered any immediate withdrawal of the granted exemptions. However, as I said, I would like to ask the Health Inspectorate to review the exemptions that have been granted and to assess the problems that may result from these exemptions, and to assess what measures might be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1054	I thank you again for the answer. I am aware that several municipalities have put in place a system in connection with their medical services, which is that the doctor will no longer go out and visit the patients, but that the patients are required to come to the medical department. It may in some cases be sensible, but in other cases it may be fatal. Will the Minister of Health ensure that, when the legislation on the medical care system is finally adopted in the fixed medical system, the doctors, where necessary, are instructed to move out to the patient’s home at the strong request of the patient himself or the patient’s relative?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1063	Without predicting what the conclusion will be of such an assessment, I can assure you that the issues raised here by the representative Alvheim will be assessed in the context of the preparation of regulations for the fixed medical system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1071	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘According to studies conducted by the World Health Organisation, Norwegian youth are getting worse and worse health. Among other things, it is pointed out that many young girls especially do not eat lunch or breakfast. What measures can the Council of State take to improve this alarming situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1080	I assume that the studies to which the representative of Tingelstad refers are primarily the study ‘Health habits among school students. A WHO survey in several countries’, abbreviated HEVAS. This survey was published in February–March this year and the latest figures were collected in 1997. The study covers, inter alia: changes in the way of life and health of young people from 1985 to 1997. The Norwegian results are compared with results from Sweden, Wales and Hungary. HEVAS shows that the proportion of Norwegian 15-year-olds who experience a health disorder once a week or more often has increased by about a quarter. 12 pst. since the mid 1980s. One possible explanation may be that norms in Norwegian society have changed towards an increased understanding and acceptance of mental problems. Thus, it is possible that it has become more acceptable to express such problems now than before, which may lead to such problems being under-reported to a lesser extent than before. In any case, it is worth noting that the proportion of Norwegian youth with such plagues is significantly lower than in all three other countries. This applies to both boys and girls. So the picture might not be as negative as some media lookups have given the impression. On the other hand, Norway is approaching the level in other countries in areas where we have had a better situation in the past. This applies in particular to the areas referred to by the representative Tingelstad. As part of the reversing of negative developments, advisers responsible for coordinating prevention and health promotion efforts at all county medical offices are now employed. Youth will be one of the main target groups for their work. So the question of the evolution of youth lunch and lunch habits. As the representative of Tingelstad points out, the HEVAS study shows that among girls at the age of 15 it was about 20 years old. 9 pst. fewer people who usually ate lunch and 5 pst. fewer who ate morning food in 1997 than it was in the 1980s. But still, according to the study, it's 73 pst. of the girls in this age group who ate breakfast four to seven days a week, and 71 pst. who ate lunch four to seven days a week. For peers, the numbers are 84 pst, respectively. and 83 pst. As far as measures by the authorities are concerned, I would like to stress that the school is a main venue for promoting health-friendly eating among children and young people. Government Board for Nutrition and Physical Activity directs its work to school authorities, teachers, students and parents. This is enshrined in the regulations on environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens, where Section 11 refers to the SEF guidelines for food in school. In childhood, work is specifically aimed at ensuring sufficient time for the lunch break and that the smallest pupils are to be supervised while they are eating. In secondary and secondary schools, work is being done to establish food stalls/canteens. In addition, improved provision of food through the ‘Fruit and green at school’ scheme is a subscription scheme for fruit and vegetables in line with the school milk scheme. The scheme is currently in place in eight counties and the aim is for all counties to have such an offer by 2001. Furthermore, in recent years, the SEF has given increasing attention to strengthening home knowledge education. In 1991, the National Nutrition and Physical Activity Council carried out a nationwide survey of the school meal that showed that only 7 p.p. of the schools had such an offer. Against this background, action was put in place to establish food stalls/canteens in several schools. In 1997, a follow-up study showed that the proportion of schools with food/canteen increased to 19 p.p.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1102	I thank the Council of State for the full answer. I also noticed that he went into the transparency of mental disorders as a possible reason that the numbers have increased. It'll be on behalf of the Council of State. I noticed with pleasure that advisers should be added to each county municipality, if I understood correctly. It's an interesting measure. I realize that this is both a personal responsibility and a authority responsibility. But I think it's serious when we know from the study that 15-year-old girls smoke more and experiment more with alcohol than before, and in some areas it's even worse for the boys. Researchers say that there are serious concerns about the future occurrence of cardiovascular diseases and cancer. I think that's very serious. I would like to hear the State Council's comment on these serious statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1113	What I meant to say was that some of the explanations of the reported increases over the 12 years covered by the study are that there have been things in the Norwegian community about transparency about mental distress that might lead to believe that what was previously mentioned as a significant under-reporting of the type of plague, perhaps now is less under-reported, and that consideration should be given to that kind of possibility as one goes closer to this number material, and so do we in the future. It is a recent study that has been made known, and we need to work more on it in the future. Moreover, I can only agree that the trends that the representative of Tingelstad refers to in relation to youth health are serious, and that is all the reason for us in all our preventive work to take this into account in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1120	I thank you again for the answer. The most important thing for us politicians is to facilitate prevention – I am sure the Council of State agrees with me. And then I'll refer to the investigation again, where a scientist says, ‘Tobacco, effervescent and cola drinks, fast-food meals and TV entertainment are easily accessible to young people today. As long as this is seen to be positive, we will never be able to cope with the negative development." Researcher Oddrun Samdal at the University of Bergen believes it is important to make healthy food more accessible and attractive, as well as to build bicycle paths, ballrooms and sports halls. All these are good prevention measures, and she believes it is far more important than awareness campaigns. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on this which then comes from a professional team. So the state council said the school is important. Yes, it is absolutely. After all, the school has been able to repair everything that society has not been able to provide. I'm a schoolman myself, so I have insight into it. And I had an interpellation about about the same theme two years ago. When the Council of State says that home-knowledge education is strengthened, it's actually a truth of modification, because the hours have fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1134	I think we will continue to pay great attention to the positive results of the active measures already implemented, and I repeat this by saying that the availability of good food and healthy food through canteens and food stalls in schools has shown good results, and there is reason to continue working on it. As far as homework is concerned, I'm going to be careful to address purely school policy issues. I just referred to the fact that the Council for Nutrition and Physical Activity of the State has placed great emphasis on strengthening home knowledge education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1144	I would like to ask the Minister of Health a question: ‘A new survey carried out by Norsk Nursing Association Vestfold shows that only every four nurses, or only 24 pst, work in a full-time position. In Vestfold today there are 341 available nurse positions. Converted to full positions, this represents 103 annual works. This is very worrying about the need. The responsibility lies with the county and municipalities. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards those responsible for this correction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1153	As I understand the representative Width's question, this concerns both the use of part-time jobs and the availability of nursing positions. The Ministry has developed a Health and Social Staff Action Plan for the period 1998-2001. The plan has its own chapter on mobilising labour reserves, recruiting and retaining staff. Here, the questions asked by Mr Width's travel representative will be dealt with in depth. It is pointed out that it is the responsibility of employers to make the best use of the available personnel and to facilitate the provision of full employment as much as possible. As regards the general lack of nurses, I would like to point out that figures from the local government pay and personnel registers show an increase in annual health and social work of more than 3 100 years except for Oslo from 1998 to 1999, and that it is carried out approximately. 1 300 more nurses in municipalities and counties in 1999 than in 1998. In the case of Vestfold, the same prints show that 143 more annual works were carried out by higher education staff in 1999 than in 1998, i.e. more than 6 pst., which is above the country average. Of the new year’s works, 86 were nurses. When the new annual works are not always carried out in full-day positions, they may have several reasons. The use of part-time positions implies flexibility which, overall, could lead to more nurses' assistants than one would have had without the possibility of reducing job breaks. Many workers do not want a full job, and many employers make plans so that the employees do not receive an offer of as much employment as they want. I agree with the representative, Width, that it is the responsibility of municipalities and counties as employers to take advantage of the free labour force resulting from the part-time work of nurses. A prerequisite for continuity in patient treatment is that a sufficient number of nurses work in a full-time position. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel to the extent necessary for the provision of good quality health services to the public is a central challenge for health authorities and employers in county and local authorities. I will closely monitor the development and results of the actions of the Action Plan for Health and Social Staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1168	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased and happy to hear that there is now a working plan that is in progress, and that will hopefully affect these things and deal with the problems that this poses. There's a significant number of positions we're talking about. And when we know the need in nursing care, these are the resources that lie there, and we should try to make use of in every way possible. These are resource-intensive people, highly educated people. We're aware that after some time they've grown up to belong to so-called families with children. Some of the keywords around this might be pay, there's another question that we can't raise here right now. But this by facilitating nurses and children's families with kindergartens, flexible arrangements, etc. I hope this work plan involves, and I would like to know if the Council of State can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1175	It is true, of course, that pay is also important, but again I want to repeat something I said in a previous answer, that I do not intend to address the issues related to pay and wage negotiations between the social partners. Otherwise, I think the key to the representative's other questions is just flexibility. There are large resources that are often at risk of not being used well enough because of the lack of flexibility, and I think that precisely providing for greater flexibility in the exploitation of that type of labour is one of the main tools we have to improve the situation in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1182	I thank you again for the answer. There's another issue I want to address around this. This shows, in my opinion, that neither the municipalities nor the county authorities are able to deal with this problem properly. They are unable to deal with this and are unable to facilitate flexibility, as we talked about. It brings in another question, namely the eligibility of the county. That's what I hope the Council of State can bring into this mindset. After all, we have now received a government statement that is just talking about improving the efficiency of the public sector. There is probably another state council present that could probably say more about it, but I would like the Minister of Health to take this up with the appropriate government council and his department and see if any of the problem can lie within this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1189	I think most people will agree that the Minister of Health has more than enough work to do with the tasks assigned to him as the top head of the health sector. It is true that this involves a number of cooperation relations between state, county and local authorities, and I limit myself to saying that we should have a great deal of attention to the issues that relate to the organisation across the administrative boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1197	I have a question for our Minister of Health: «The health authorities of the Member States consider that the law on dental care of 1983 is to be amended in such a way that children from 0 to 18 years of age will no longer have the first right to dental treatment in the public dentistry. Many odontologists have responded strongly to the health - care proposal because they fear that children’s dentures can dramatically increase in the years to come. What is the rationale for the down-priority, and will it be followed up by a change in the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1206	Law on dental services states that county municipalities are obliged to organise prevention measures for the whole population. It follows from § 1-3 of the Act that a regular and outreach offer is to be made to some groups of the population. The priority groups are: children and young people from birth up to and including the year they reach 18 years of age with mental retardation in and outside the institution groups of elderly, long-term ill and disabled persons in institutions and home care, young people aged 19 or 20 in the year of treatment, where appropriate, other groups to which the county decides to have such an offer; This priority has proved appropriate and has led to a very positive development in the dental health of the paediatric population in Norway. The provision of the law also states that: ‘The groups are listed in order of priority. If the resources are not sufficient for offering to all groups, this priority shall be followed.’;» This last wording was incorporated into the law as a transitional provision because not all municipalities had sufficient resources or capacity to provide all the priority groups with a fully developed offer from the date of entry into force of the Act, which was 1 January 1984. In 1992 the then Directorate for Health sent the study «Tannnesdienst i Norway: description, assessment and perspectives towards 2015». In its transmission, the Health Directorate proposed inter alia: that a recommendation to remove the internal priority between the groups in the Dental Services Act was sent to the hearing. So far, proposals for changes have not been at consultation. I interpret the Health Directorate's recommendation of 1992 as not recommending a depriority of children and young people in public dentistry. What they propose is an equal priority for all the groups mentioned in the law. This, of course, requires the individual county council to assess resource use internally in relation to the needs of the individual groups. In this context, I mention that the Department has developed a circular that clarifies the dental service law in relation to the very representative Hedstrøm's question. The circular shall be issued in a short time. In terms of dental development, data from county authorities in 1999 show that dental health in most groups of children and young people is steadily improving. I consider the priorities of certain groups of the population to be an important health policy instrument, and children and young people will continue to be a priority group of public dental services in line with the other priority groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1239	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He said equal priority. In practice, there must be equal priority, for what is now happening is that public dental provision is being reduced around county municipalities. This applies both to children and to the other priority groups. I don't think that's worth the richest society in the world. It is not true that there is a strong improvement among all groups of children. We are now receiving annual reports from a number of county councils that show that the number of children without leave has fallen, so there is a worrying development. The Dental Association stated no later than today to the TV 2 news that they do not want any re-priority. They want the group 0 to 18 years of age to be the top priority. Does not the Council of State agree with this — the older and the older — and that the foundation must be laid in the youth in order to give proper priority?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1246	So, first of all, with the same priority, I mean the same priority, whether you think it's high or low or too high or too low. So it's up to each other in this priority group that there's a recommendation on equal priority. What I also meant to say about it is that it does not imply a depriority of children aged 0 to 18 compared to the previous one. Moreover, I fully agree that it is in that group that the basis for dental health is laid, and that the priority there is therefore unusually important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1253	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. What we now see, which is unacceptable in a number of counties, is that in practice there is a down-priority of many of these groups. Only emergency treatment is provided. For example, in the South-Trundellag and in Telemark, only acute dental pain is treated. It has to be corrected. Although it is a county responsibility, the central authorities have a supervisory authority and an obligation to follow up the follow-up of the dental law also by those responsible in the counties. Now there is a lack of dentistry in today's Norway. I guess it's a passing phenomenon. It will be improved by the construction of a new dental college in Tromsø or by major admissions to the existing dental colleges. But will the purchase of dental services or other measures from private dentists be considered during a transitional period so that these unworthy conditions can be corrected, whether in the case of children or other priority groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1262	I take with me the views expressed by the representative Hedstrom and will use them in the cooperation we have with the county councils on these issues. When it comes to the purchase of services from outside, I would like to limit myself to saying what I have said earlier about this: this is a public responsibility, and the public responsibility should not be weakened in any way. But if public responsibility can be better exercised by also attracting private resources in this context, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1272	This question, from the representative of Mr Öyvind Korsberg to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Employment and Administrative Affairs as the appropriate representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1275	I will ask the Minister for Labour and Administration the following questions: ‘Reference is made to publication in the newspaper Tromsø on 15 March 2000, where it appears that there is a great deal of discrimination in the social security law between spouses and cohabitants. As can be seen from the statement, a woman on an occupational basis was reinstated as cohabitants with a gross value of 7 000 kroner per month. After marriage, the amount was halved. What will the Council of State do to ensure equal treatment for the law in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1284	Under the National Social Security Act, Chapter 11, benefits under vocational rehabilitation can be provided. This is a benefit which, like unemployment benefits and sickness benefits, is allowed to compensate for the loss of labour income while it is being redeployed. In addition, recovery aid may be provided. The benefits may be granted in the course of the implementation of the recovery measure itself in order to compensate for the additional costs that the measure may incur for the individual. Within the system of back-up aid, a separate cover may also be provided for the maintenance expenses of the member or family under Section 11-7, first paragraph, point (d), also known as household benefit. On a general basis, I can state that the issue of cohabitation or marriage may have an impact on the calculation of this needs-tested part of the rehabilitation benefit, social benefits for household expenses. Under the provisions on reinsurance benefits § 2-8, third paragraph, the total monthly living costs of a family and other costs of living and total net income will be decisive for the amount of the benefit. Thus, a consequence of such a scheme would be that change in family relationships could affect the amount of social benefits paid. I can tell you that the previous government of Ot. pp. No 48 for 1998-99 proposed that this household allowance be replaced by a child care allowance. This proposal is therefore under discussion in the Grand Duchy, and if it is adopted, it will mean changes in relation to the problem described.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1293	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Rarely has there been an answer that has shown so many laws and paragraphs. I think it might be precisely the problem in this case that there is a very great need to clean up this legislation. It's like having more and more consensual residents, and you should get a law that's easier to understand and also easier to practice. Because it's clear to most people it seems unreasonable that if you marry, you should be penalised financially by the public by halving the social security payment. I would like to ask the Council of State a specific question: why do you distinguish married people from cohabitants, and why do you have this social security rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1302	I have to ask for an understanding that I do not want to go into the specific matter, because it is still under consideration. One of the problems here is that the People's Security Act describes some of the cohabitants' status in line with spouses, and that is in cases where cohabitants have common children. However, in those cases where the cohabitants do not have children in common, they may in some cases be able to receive social benefits as a single mother. That's why this difference can arise. But that problem will be solved with the proposal for legislative change that is now under consideration in the Grand Duchy. I also agree with the questioner that there is a need for regulatory clearance and simplification in this area that is in many other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1311	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State said that this specific matter is still under consideration. It is a little worrying that it takes so long to get cleaned up in such a case. As noted in the specific case in the paper, the employment office had difficulties in obtaining information because the legislation is not good enough. It says, among other things:\t\t You can "We did not have enough information about the financial situation when she married. [[persons]] Therefore, her benefit was automatically reduced.» Then, the Council of State sees the need to clean up this legislation in an easy way. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the labour office is provided with legislation to provide them with the necessary and relevant information at an earlier stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1323	When applying for a benefit, a person must obtain the necessary supporting documentation. In this case, there was no evidence relating to the spouse’s income. When that dossier arrives, of course, the application will be finalised. But I stress that, under the rules of the People's Rights Act, there is a difference between couples with common children and couples with no common children and spouses. Therefore, the result of such treatments will be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1332	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘A deaf woman has applied through the Emergency Centre in Hordaland for telefax as an aid instead of a text phone, which she finds less appropriate. The Rikstrøgdeverket has rejected the application by reference to the legislation. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the regulations so that, in such exceptional cases, fax can be classified as an aid under the Law on Social Security?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1341	It is a prerequisite for the benefit of aids under the Law on People's Rights that the user has gained his or her function in everyday life permanently and significantly reduced due to illness, injury or lye. Social benefits are provided in the context of measures that are necessary and appropriate to improve the functioning of the user in everyday life. When assessing the appropriateness of a measure, attention is paid to the operation of the aid in such a way as to remedy the problem of disability and to enable the user to make use of the aid. Hearing aids may be granted to text telephones upon request if they are not able to hold a conversation with the usual telephone. This applies to cases where there is not enough, for example: hearing aids or other amplifier equipment to meet the needs of the user. According to the auxiliary social welfare regulation, no social benefits are provided for so-called white goods, brown goods and general kitchen equipment. This derogation is justified by the fact that this equipment is considered as a normal consumer product. Fax is considered to be brownware. The group of brown goods includes media electronic goods such as: ordinary videocassette player, regular telephone and TV. Social benefits are only provided for such brown goods from public health if the aid is specially built for disabled persons. Fax is not specifically built and is therefore not regarded as an aid in the sense of the Law on Social Security. The regulation was amended on 1 January 1996. The reason for the change in the rules was that such equipment is also used by a functionally healthy person and therefore it was not unreasonable for disabled persons to cover the cost of brown goods, white goods and general kitchen equipment. After what I can see, it's per. currently no need to make changes to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1356	I thank you for the answer, but I have to admit that I am disappointed. I fully agree with the general rationale and principle of the regulations, namely that common consumables that are also used by functional freshness should not be classified as an aid in this way. But this is an exceptional case, a case where a woman of the age in question would hardly have gone to the purchase of such a device if it had not been for her disability, which puts her in a special situation. The legislation must be in place for users and not vice versa, and the disabled person himself is best aware of his situation and his ability to make use of various tools. In view of this, will the Council of State go through the regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1361	I notice that the representative Næss agrees with the reason that the usual consumer goods should not be covered by the public interest. Now this is a specific matter, which I find difficult to comment on, and which is described as an exceptional case. It may be a person who would not have wanted to buy a fax if he had not needed it, but I remember that fax is a quite reasonable device, so I don't see the whole reason that this particular example would make me go through the whole code again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1366	Yes, I fully agree with the general reasons for the legislation here, but here it is about exceptions, and I have noticed that the Swedish National Agency in a letter to the Hordaland Aid Agency, despite their maintaining their position, writes: ‘In some cases, faxing can be a good and cheaper solution for individuals and for social security.’ Will the Council of States not contribute to a closer look at these rules, given that simpler solutions may be preferable to individual users, and at the same time cheaper to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1376	Simpler solutions can be cheaper for society, but I just have to repeat my answer from instead: I don't see that this case is of such a dimension that it justifies an entire review of a very complicated code. But I have to say, like the Council of State that stood here before me, that there is a lot of public legislation that should be looked at, precisely because it has become too complicated, and I will be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1384	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Oslo municipality uses approx. 1 billion. in the case of drug users, the amount of euro per year spent on action. Oslo has approx. 12 pst. of the country's population, but approx. 50 pst. of the country’s drug addicts. This is because drug users from all over the country come to Oslo. The home municipalities leave the problems to Oslo and drop the expenses. This is not being compensated by the state today. What will the Council of State do to correct this bias, so that Oslo can obtain acceptable reimbursement for costs and maintain an acceptable offer for drug users?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1393	Estimates by the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research suggest that less than half of injecting heroin users are resident in Oslo, while two-thirds are resident in the central East — including Oslo. It appears, therefore, to be primarily a drug user from the central eastern municipalities who are moving into and living in the abuse settings of the capital. Some must be assumed to be genuinely homeless and can therefore easily remain in these environments. It is according to the Social Services Act § 10-1 of the municipality of residence that is required to provide services under the law to all residents of the municipality. The nature of the assistance provided by the municipality of residence must be assessed in the light of the situation in which the applicant is located. The full obligation under the law will apply to a permanent stay. In the event of a temporary and short-stay period, emergency assistance may be provided. When assessing what measures are necessary, account may be taken of any offers made in other municipalities. There is no reimbursement obligation under the law for expenditure between municipalities, which means consistency between the local authorities' responsibilities for providing services and the financial responsibility for them. There is one exception: if a drug addict has been admitted to an institution, it is the municipality that was a resident municipality before the institution's stay, which will provide any services. It is clear enough that Oslo is considered to be a municipality of residence for many drug addicts who do not initially come from the municipality. Big cities attract not only younger workers who contribute to the creation of value added, but also people fleeing from too difficult situations in life. For addicts, the larger environments may give anonymity and – after all – a form of belonging. It is also one of the reasons why there is a single major urban factor in the income system of the county councils, and that the municipality of Oslo is also receiving significant exceptional state subsidies, among other things. measures for drug users, including methadone-assisted rehabilitation. It is also fully possible for a municipality to contact the municipality of residence of the drug user, where such a municipality actually exists, for the purpose of cooperation on repatriation and establishment at the place of residence. I am aware that the Municipality of Oslo has taken such an initiative in relation to neighbouring municipalities. What we have to avoid is that drug addicts become throwing balls between municipalities. Today's system seems to be the clearest guarantee of responsibility. The Equalizer message is for treatment in Stortinget, and I will not withdraw it. It will provide the Storting with the opportunity to discuss important actions for, among others, drug users who are homeless. In that debate, the specific situation of the metropolitan area will also need to be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1406	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not so happy with it. It is true that this has been addressed in the position of the Rattsø Committee, but the point is that it has never been followed up with practical measures in the form of grants to Oslo based on the additional problems of Oslo. For example, I can. mention that between one third and one quarter of Oslo overdose deaths have occurred among people living in other municipalities. The second option, in addition to following up what has been set up in the Rattsø Committee, is to amend the Social Services Act so that the municipalities of Oslo and other municipalities facing the same problem can at least send a bill to the municipality of residence for daily subsistence expenses, detoxification, health services, etc. for a period not exceeding two years. Today, it is not the case, but rather that the municipalities from which many of these drug addicts come use this as a sleeping cushion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1415	I said in my first answer that there are actually extra transfers to Oslo in the framework of the municipalities. In addition to receiving a number of drug users from other municipalities, Oslo also receives a number of well-trained people. But you do not withdraw money or send money back to the municipality of origin for that reason, so I believe that if we are going to think very broadly about this, we have a big and complicated accounting ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1420	It's true that Oslo gets some support. According to the Oslo City Council, this is 60 million. So it's just going to be 6 pst. of the more than one billion that the Municipality of Oslo has in real terms expenses in this area. I hope that the Government's attitude towards Oslo and the special metropolitan problems facing Oslo will become clearer, and that you will get a better understanding of this after sitting in the Council of State for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1425	It is the duty of this Council of States to take care of the interests of the weakest groups. Therefore, it is also my duty to ensure that the very worst, such as heroin addicts, do not become a throw-off between municipalities. And that's why you changed this in the Social Services Act. As I said, the municipality of Oslo receives some increased grants as well as a number of state-funded measures that are directly targeting this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1435	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «In connection with the Phase I Eastfold package, a joint effort of 50 pst has been agreed. State grants. Will the Council of State in the revised national budget ensure that start-up appropriations are incorporated into this important road package, so that work can begin in 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1444	The treatment of Phase 1 E6 and E18 in Eastfold for the period 2002-2011 by the Storting on the Easternfold package provided that the level of the State investment framework for the deployment of E6 and E18 in Eastfold will be clarified in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan. Once the framework has been clarified, a development and financing plan will be drawn up. The final selection of individual projects and their appropriations will be made in the annual budget proposals. The state road system is based on a work plan aimed at starting toll collection towards the end of 2000 and the expansion of the first E6 and E18 parcels in 2001. From this point of view, I believe it is right that the start of the phase 1 Eastfold package should be dealt with in the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1458	I thank you for the answer, but it really wasn't that much new. Getting agreement and decision to expand E6 and E18 as well as the railway solution in Moss has been a very heavy and difficult case locally in Østfold. One main assumption was this fissile matter, with 50 pst. by the State. It is clear that there has now been a great impatience, because we see that there is a clear distinction between the road standard between Akershus and Eastfold when we take, for example. E6. This means that we have a great need to get this important work started as soon as possible, and at least it must not be so that we set up toll stations first, before work can begin. I am tempted to challenge the Council of State whether he can give something clearer signal about his personal position on this important issue, so that the people of Eastfold have something to look forward to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1465	I agree with the representative of Holten that it has been a difficult matter, and I understand the impatience and also the desire to get started soon. However, the progress I have made is in line with the process of collapse of the Phase 1 Eastfold package, and I will deal with it. Otherwise, I will follow up as soon as possible, and in this context I have already addressed the question of tolling on Fv 311 by inviting the relevant municipalities and county councils to a meeting shortly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1472	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is useful and pleasant that an initiative has been taken, so that one at least gets the concrete piece that goes on the toll solution. But according to the Council of State's own place of residence, I expect that he is very well aware that these are very difficult roads, both in the case of serious accidents and heavy congestion. Then it is important for us that we could now get a recognition that it is not just for these two ways to stay standing in a long, long queue in the coming plans. They must be given a clear priority given to the importance of these two road sections and not least to the tunnel solution in Moss. I expect that the Council of State will take into account when he starts his work in terms of budget and road plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1479	It is quite right that these are very heavy road sections, both in terms of traffic density and also in terms of accident frequency. Therefore, we will continue to focus heavily on this. In the case of the Moss railway tunnel, it will be managed in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1489	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In recent years, the future of the Gjøvik Railway has been under threat from various media in Oppland. There are statements that the Gjøvik-Jaren section can be closed. How does the Council of State view this in relation to strengthening public transport and the environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1498	Train traffic on the Gjøvik Railway is part of the purchase of passenger transport services by the State from the NSB. Agreement has been reached between the State of the Ministry of Transport and the NSB for the purchase of passenger transport services for 2000 and this agreement does not provide for the termination of the Gjøvik - Jaren route. The agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB for 2000 provides for a State purchase amount of 68 million. kr to Gjøvikbanen. The NSB's position is that today's operation on Gjøvikbanen does not provide a good enough offer to the travellers and is too expensive for the state. As I have been informed, the NSB therefore assesses various alternative solutions for the further operation on Gjøvikbanen. The current train service on Gjøvikbanen is part of the framework agreement concluded by the State with the NSB for the purchase of passenger transport services for the period up to and including 2001. I suggest that the NSB's train services on Gjøvikbanen, like other sections of the railway line, are assessed in the context of a new four-year framework agreement between the State and the NSB for the period 2002-2005. However, if the NSB before that, in cooperation with local authorities, agrees on an alternative solution for today's operations that can be covered within today's financial framework, I am willing to look into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1507	I thank you for your answer. The council said that if you could reach an agreement within the current framework, he was willing to look into the matter. We from Uppland want an answer now. In 1993, the Gjøvikbanen report said that everything that was supposed to be rusted up, both track and rolling stock. It hasn't happened. It's just been uncertainty. Then I stand with today's Uppland Worksheet: ‘NSB Director: One take-off’ – one take-off per. day from Gjøvik, and bus. We from Uppland want a guarantee that the Gjøvik Railway will pass. It has absolutely its high value in traffic patterns, and it is absolutely necessary to ensure infrastructure in West Oppland, which is very poor. I now expect a clear response from the Council of State whether he wants there to be railway operation on Gjøvikbanen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1518	My starting point is that the current framework agreement is finalised in 2001. However, if the NSB wants to establish a new offer before this, which is at least as good as the present one for both travellers and for the environment, and which is within the current economic framework, it is natural that the NSB should address this with the Ministry of Transport in connection with the purchase of services for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1523	I note that the Council of State does not have a clear view that it is important to have the Gjøvik Railway. Then I refer you to today's lookup in Oppland Arbeiderblad, where Arne Wam emphasizes ‘that it is still the owner, the state, who has the last words. The Ministry of Transport decides whether it pays to continue the so-called ‘service purchase’, which in practice means that the State subsidises the operation of the route’. I thought this about public transport was a general principle to ensure the environment. I recall that there is a cross-political agreement that the Gjøvik Railway should pass. Upland Workers' Party, the largest party, has annual decisions on it, Oppland Center Party as well. There's a lot of people's reactions going on, and people call me every day. No longer than two hours ago, a lady called and said that it is an ever-decreasing service offer. Now green take-offs are also reduced. This is a long pinning of the Gjøvik track, and I actually perceive it as a balancing item in terms of securing funds for the tiltogens and the Gardermoban. I want to hear what the Council of State thinks about this, because it's going to be a lurking life if the Gjøvik Railway isn't going to pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1533	I have already expressed a clear view that the current framework agreement is firm. As I said, I am familiar with the fact that different alternatives have been explored, and also still the use of trains through an upgrade. But the most important thing for me is that in these assessments it is assumed that you should have at least an equal offer for the travellers in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1541	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Western carriers present their summer routes during these days. It's for extensive cuts. In some places, the first and last trip will be omitted to balance the operation. This will be a dramatic decline for the population and business. It will be too late to change the framework after the revision of the national budget. Can the Council of State take immediate action to ensure that current regular services are maintained?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1550	The state road authorities have conducted negotiations with the ferries on route services in the ferry sector. It is reported by the State Road Administration that the negotiations are difficult and that there is a high distance between the shipping companies and the individual road managers. Negotiations have not yet been concluded, but have been suspended. The State Road Administration has addressed to the Ministry the budgetary situation of the ferry operation. High oil prices have incurred higher fuel costs than foreseen in the budget. Other conditions have also led to adverse cost developments in the ferry sector. This applies, inter alia, to: introduction of a mineral oil levy. The budgetary situation is very tight. I am also aware through the media that from many of the major coastal ferry companies, some major changes in the route offer are being considered, as it has not been possible to reach agreement in the negotiations between road offices and shipping companies on the continuation of the 1999 offer within budgetary frameworks. However, I can inform you that there have been no reductions in supply so far. The 1999 trajectory will continue unchanged, initially until 1 May. The Ministry assesses the input from the State Road Service on the budgetary situation of ferry operations. Like the representative of Kongshaug, I see that we have a short time to assess the current situation. In the 2000 budget, it was proposed that in 1999 the holiday offer should mainly be continued in 2000. However, it was clarified in the budget that the offer will depend on the Vegvesen negotiations with the ferry companies. I continue to assume that the objective of the ferry offer from the 2000 budget proposal will be maintained. The matter is important and time-critical and therefore has a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1563	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for – as I understood it – a positive response. We know that ferrying is an immeasurably important transport service for residents and businesses along our entire long-distance and value-creating coast. As the Council of State said, it is because of, among other things, increased fuel costs proposal for significant cut. But it was also clarified here that negotiations are still ongoing. I was informed by figures obtained from road offices in the West that More and Romsdal were missing approximately. Twenty-eight million. kr. There are suggestions for cutting the first and last take-off in connection and putting large ferries in bends. Sogn and Fjordane are missing 10 million. SEK, Hordaland 27 million. NOK 24 million and Rogaland. kr. Taking one with Southland and North Norway in addition, one here is operating with a deficiency of maybe 150 million. kr. It is reasonably dramatic what is proposed if the operating budgets to be held by ferry companies are to be in balance. So my question to the Council of State is, are the ferry companies going to set up a timetable where the operating budget is in balance, or are they going to reduce the offer from 1 May?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1572	The holiday offer plays a central role in the transportation of large parts of our country, and that is of course also a broad commitment to these issues. I can confirm, without going into the details of the individual state, that there is a relatively large amount here. This, of course, is also the reason why there is a problematic situation. On the part of the Ministry, we will assume that we will follow up what has been said in the budget proposal on the ferry offer, and I repeat that we regard this as time-critical and will deal with the matter as soon as we can, so that we can do so before the end of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1581	I think this case is in a positive lease in the situation we're in, and I just want to inform you that the center is also set to follow up what's in the budget proposition. This should be a majority in order for the route offer to be maintained. When the situation is such that there are proposals to cut the ferry supply, this creates unrest among residents and businesses. People have expectations of a standard opening time on the public road network, and in my view it is important that a get defined a long-term transport standard for the ferries, so that that part of highways and county roads becomes more predictable than being dependent on fluctuations in the oil price on the world market. Can the Council of State agree to the idea of defining a long-term transport standard for ferry operations, so that the offer becomes more predictable for residents and businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1588	I am pleased with what I see as political support for the necessary measures in this area in the situation we are in. With regard to the longer-term questions, I have noticed the representative's views, which I want to take with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1598	I will ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘There have been strong protests from fish keepers at the Government's decision to stop fishing north of the 62nd latitude for cod, seine and haze from 15 to 24 April 2000. Will the Council of State repeal this decision and rather go for a holiday satisfaction, which is commonplace?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1607	In connection with the annual regulation of fisheries, a press release was sent out by the Ministry in December 1999 to the effect that a general Easter break would be introduced in 2000. The justification is the protection of the broodstock. After further evaluations, the stop was adjusted somewhat in time, while it was restricted to cod, haze and seismic species. Notification was given to the industry on 3 March 2000. The Easter Summit is a theme that is a year-long commitment, and it has been established for several years only that Easter stops have been lifted just before Easter following strong pressure from parts of the industry. This may seem reasonable to some, while creating problems for others who have planned their operations based on what is actually established. If both sides of the sea and the land are to be able to operate an industry with a certain degree of predictability, it is important that one stands on the decisions taken. Growth and increased value creation in the Norwegian fishing industry will include, inter alia: require that the public framework conditions are long-term and predictable. In addition, international commitments and announcements to other countries about the Easter break suggest not to make any changes to the provision. The regulation has been sent to other countries for notification, where it has been made clear at the same time that there are biological considerations underlying it, with the need for measures to improve spawning conditions and thereby also to ensure better recruitment to the population. It is necessary to maintain firm decisions if Norway is to appear to be a serious resource manager, and we do not today have information that would have changed the basis for Easter stoppages. Bad weather with a lot of land lie, combined with late sight of cod, has brought part of this fleet in a difficult situation. A provision was therefore made last Friday that vessels of less than 28 m fishing with conventional gear were granted a derogation from the Sunday and public holiday satisfaction in fishing for cod, hay and seine until the Easter stop occurs. In this way, we combine the desire for more fishing days with the need for a continuous spawning protection period. The exemption has led to a number of reactions, and I note that parts of the industry will continue to fight this case and negotiate until a shorter Easter stop than it stipulated. Both the authorities and the industry must take seriously the signals we have received from the researchers and do our job in order to facilitate the development of cod under the best possible conditions. I would like to remind you that a total quota has been set for cod for 2000 which involves a gradual reconstruction before we can reasonably assume that cod will once again be within safe biological limits. This requires caution during the reconstruction phase. No changes will therefore be made to the approved Easter stop. With the reduced quotas introduced this year in the cod sector, I believe that fishermen will fish their quotas despite the fact that there will be a fishing ban for a short period of time. The cod quota for conventional gear in 2000 is fixed at 136 150 tonnes. By comparison, this quota was 163,990 tonnes in 1999, i.e. a reduction of 27,840 tonnes. Overall, I have to stress that fishing is so far in line with the last few years. According to the statistics of the Råfisklag, 12 036 tonnes of screed have been delivered in Lofoten per. Week 11 this year. In comparison, 13 543 tonnes were delivered at the same time last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1622	I also see the need for a stable framework. But there are certain things, when one is going to drift on the sea, which are not so easy to predict, simply weather and wind. This year we have had very bad weather on the coast. It has, among other things, As we say on our part of the country, the fishing director took the sense and lifted the weekend satisfaction from Thursday last week. Now, when we've had so bad this period, I can't understand why neither can we introduce the holiday satisfaction in Easter and cancel the decision, so that the fishermen have the possibility to operate. Because I'm afraid that a lot of fishermen are now unable to take the quota during this period when cod, haze and saithe are on the coast, and that this will lead to difficult operating conditions and difficult economics for the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1627	I am pleased that Solholm and I agree that stability in the framework conditions is important, and this is one of the framework conditions that should be stable. I think we're going to have a very difficult situation if we're going to add ourselves as a rule to regulations that are going to apply over a whole year, correcting depending on how the development of the fishing is, which can once again depend on the weather, etc. Unlike Solholm, I have no fear that the Norwegian cod quota will not be taken. Nor do I have any fear that the intended distribution between the different groups will not be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1634	Today we do not get stability in the framework conditions, because the weather has created unstable conditions. It has created uncertainty for the fishermen who are going to operate the boat and who have maintenance costs. It's also made us uncertain whether we're able to fish up the small allocated quotas. It was a little bit uncertain whether the quotas were large enough, but let's just do it. At least there's an allowance level there. But then it is also important that the fisherman obtains the stability that is possible within the given operating periods – for a changing road and equipment here to operate in the different phases of the year – and it is important that the stability that has now become unstable due to poor weather can be created by taking these little tricks, such as: the fishing director did so by abolishing the holiday satisfaction now in this period until Easter. That's why my question is, is it not possible to turn it into a holiday party in Easter, and not to take a fishing trip all Easter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1639	I want to repeat what I said in my first answer, that an essential element for me in the assessment of this is that we have notified all the countries that are fishing in our zone that this is a stop that is being introduced and that also applies to other countries' vessels. This notification has a justification for biological considerations and this justification is established. It is therefore important for our credibility that we stand firm on the regulation that has been implemented. I do not agree with the indication of the quotas set for this year; they are high in relation to what could have been set. If you had a wish from Norway, it would have been possible to set quotas allowing a faster build-up of the cod stock than the quota regime currently in force provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1649	‘Vehicle owners who have switched to the so-called environmental diesel report that the fuel consumption of this diesel type is significantly higher than the consumption of normal diesel. Can this, in the opinion of the Council of State, be said to be environmentally friendly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1656	From the new year, a sulphur charge was introduced in autodiesel to encourage a transition to low-sulphur diesel. The lower sulphur content of diesel results in reduced emissions of SO2 and particulate matter, as well as opening up the use of cleaning equipment. The adjustment to the fee has resulted in most of the diesel delivered on the market being low-sulfur diesel. So the fee has worked according to its purpose. The representative, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, has been informed that the environmental diesel – and I expect that it is diesel with low sulphur content to be targeted – leads to a significant increase in fuel consumption. Based on the information obtained by the Ministry, this is not correct. Low sulphur diesel does not result in higher fuel consumption. A recently adopted EU directive imposes stricter quality requirements on the content of different substances in diesel. The requirements will also apply to Norway, under the EEA Agreement. Norwegian oil companies have gradually adapted to these requirements. One of them is the requirement for density in the diesel. This may result in a marginal increase in diesel consumption, estimated at 1 to 2 pst. The overall impact of these requirements is a reduction in the environmental impact of diesel use. Both the sulphur tax and the diesel quality requirement are important instruments for reducing the emissions of diesel vehicles and thus improving the air quality in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1669	The information provided by several truck owners at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Freight Car Association at Sola was that fuel consumption increased by between 20 and 23 pst. on transition to low-sulphur diesel. Then one would think that the density of other exhaust gases would lead to the removal of environmental effects. I have some problems understanding that it can be environmentally friendly. I have problems seeing that it has some environmental aspect over it at all with this lifting of the diesel tax. If the price of reduced sulphur is to increase emissions of other harmful substances, it must be said that it is a poor environmental policy. Other substances in diesel are more dangerous to human health, including: for asthmatics, other than sulphur emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1674	I think it is important to see the overall impact of the tax introduced and the follow-up to the EU directive on density in diesel. In my view, in view of this, there is no doubt that the environmental impact of these measures is positive. With regard to the Ministry's information, it is based on the views of the Institute of Technology and most oil companies. I think it is important to remember the severity of the damage that follows, among other things. by suspended particulate matter. In this area, environmental impacts are overall good. I would also point out that the Minister of Finance has earlier today answered general questions about the levy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1688	I have the impression that if you can just connect a fee to the environment, anything goes. After all, it was also the environmental aspect that led to the left getting a pass for its king's mind, to increase the electricity tax and the oil tax. The overall tax burden on electricity, diesel and oil has serious consequences for both industry and rural public transport. Now it is the case that a ferry that no longer goes does not contaminate, while a bus that does not go will be replaced with a car. I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State think that the Workers' Party should pursue this kind of environmental policy, or can it expect changes in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1697	With regard to environmental policy charges, there will be one of several instruments, in no way the only one. I think that taxes on diesel have proved to have a very good environmental impact, so in this area it is from an environmental policy perspective right policy to continue the line we are on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1705	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: ‘In a letter from the rapporteur in the municipality of Frøya on 15 March 2000, I was informed that the Directorate for Nature Management, in its treatment of the exemption application from SalMar AS, will not take into account the St.meld’s deliberation. [[1998 - 1999]] No 43 Protection and use in coastal zones before deciding on the application. Will the Council of State ensure that this is taken into account?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1714	Froan nature reserve and landscape reserve was established in 1979. In 1998, SalMar AS granted a derogation to the County of South-Trøndelag for farming within the landscape protection area, limited to 1 July of this year. The dispensation was given on a very special basis, as one in the period in question was faced with a serious outbreak of the ILA fish disease. In September 1999, SalMar AS applied for a new derogation for a further two years, and it was requested that the derogation application be dealt with quickly so that the spring and autumn meal could be released in 2000. The County of Southern Trøndelag rejected the application, and the case was sent to the Directorate for Complaints. Under the applicable rules of procedure, the directorate was obliged to deal with the matter as soon as possible. The application that the directorate has now rejected is based on a different basis from the original application of 1998, since it was not related to the disease situation. The Ministry of the Environment has been and is committed not to re-establishing protection plans which may affect industrial interests in the coastal zone until the Great Britain has completed its treatment of the coastal zone protection and use notification. However, this case does not concern the establishment of new protection areas but the normal management of an established protection area. Therefore, there is no criticism in the fact that the directorate has rejected the complaint for exemption while the landfill is in progress. The notification of the crash signals a need for evaluation of the protection areas and review of the protection regulations. This will give an assessed status of the protection values and effects on industrial interests and communities. I think it is important that the Storting should complete this message so that I can implement the measures outlined here as soon as possible. So this is one of the messages that will be in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1723	I thank you for your answer. What is critical in this matter is that the directorate writes to the municipality of Frøya v/rapporteur that they do not take into account the treatment carried out in Stortinget. It should have been absolutely done by this directorate, as long as it has been sent out as clear signals on the matter as it has been given. What is the problem here now is that this company – SalMar – will release 900,000 smolts, which will have to go out in a very short time in order not to be destroyed. Does the Minister for the Environment see what problem this is for this company?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1730	I think it is very important that this coastal message can be addressed as quickly as possible in the Storting, and the signals given there will, of course, guide me on these issues further. But since the government put forward a number of principles on how such areas should be managed precisely through that message, I think the clearest thing is that this matter is being dealt with and that follow-up follows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1735	I thank you again for the answer. I understand the minister so that she is positive, but the problem here is that 900,000 smolts probably have to be moved to get to sea at all. What is the problem in this matter is not the melting, nor is it SalMar. What's the problem in this case is that the last 70 people who stay out there probably have to move with the fish. That's the whole problem in a nutshell. It's not time to stop these 70s. They must have a job to go to, and that's the only option they have. The blockage of the last 70 out there has no purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1742	For this area and for too many areas along our coast, the challenge will be to secure environmental values for future generations while ensuring areas for the harvesting of natural resources and food production in the sea. That is why I look forward to receiving a quick response to this announcement in Stortingen, which will set out the principles for how it can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1750	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The opera has been adopted and added to Bjørvika. Urban development in the area is also actively pursued, including the setting of E18 in tunnels. What opportunities do the Councils see in the coordination and joint development of all state and municipal property grounds in the area, in order to ensure overall development, and in order to obtain money from property development to the financing of the sink tunnel?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1759	Urban development in Bjørvika is of major national, regional and local importance. Oslo Municipality has a primary responsibility for planning. Important State interests in particular related to road, port and opera suggest that the State must cooperate with the municipality in order to contribute to overall development. The Ministry of the Environment, as the top level planning authority, has had a central responsibility for coordinating the state interests of Bjørvika. There is a good dialogue between the most interested parties and the physical planning of the new urban area. Oslo Municipality cooperates with the Statens vägvesen Oslo, NSB BA Eiendom and Statsbyggen on the basis of a regulatory plan covering the whole area. Proposals for a regulatory plan should be promoted for policy-making and expected to be addressed by the City Council in spring 2002. The main challenge is to clarify the funding of new E18 through the site. The plant is primarily justified by local urban development potential. It is assumed that municipal contributions as well as the increase in the value of the land in the area will be allocated to the financing of the road project. The Municipality of Oslo has decided to grant 150 million. kr as its contribution to the national road system. The Ministry of the Environment has chaired a working group of representatives of the main landowners and the Municipality of Oslo to calculate the increase in the value of the land resulting from the sinking tunnel. The amount of value added that can be allocated to the financing of the road system needs to be clarified through negotiations with the landowners. I believe that there is a good basis for finding comprehensive solutions and putting in place an effective organisation for urban development. The parties must now enter into negotiations themselves on the formation of a company, in line with the proposal of the NSB Eiendom to the Municipality of Oslo. I will follow developments to see if the Ministry of the Environment can contribute to the desired progress and results. The question of priority and the total funding of the national road network will be clarified in the work of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1772	The Council of State and I see in it all materially equal to the importance of the area and how one must work to find a solution. I believe that the company formation mentioned in the answer is important, and I allow myself to ask an additional question: Will the State take, in one appropriate way or another, an initiative to start a development company in order to ensure an overall expansion in Bjørvika – where it is natural that both state and municipal interests are involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1779	I see it as natural to follow up this matter. The working group that has explored different models for the implementation of urban development has done an important job. In a letter to the Municipality of Oslo in January of this year, NSB Eiendom asked for a dialogue with the municipality on the possibilities for a more permanent cooperation on land development in Bjørvika and Bispevika. This may take the form of this joint formation of companies or other forms of cooperation. On this basis, I will follow closely the case further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1791	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment: «The Ship and Våler municipalities in Østfold appeals to the Directorate for Nature Management for its rejection of the application for the killing of «ulfettispa» in the area and asks the Ministry of Environment to reverse the decision and grant the application. Municipalities consider that the frequent exposure to humans, which has caused fear in the area, has not been adequately taken into account. Will the Ministry emphasise this aspect in the review process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1800	On 8 February this year, four municipalities in Østfold applied to the Directorate for Nature Management for a mollusk permit on a wolfite who has been in charge in the municipalities for the last year. Ulvetispa is the same as last year got a puppy cow with a dog. It is not desirable for mixed wolf and dog animals to spread in the wild, because it can lead to the spread of dog genes in the Scandinavian wolf population. As a result, in February of this year, the directorate granted breeding authorisation to mixed puppies. At the same time, the Directorate concluded that the adult wolf is a pure-bred wolf. The legal basis for dealing with municipalities' breeding applications is the law of the game and the regulation on the management of bears, yerv, wolf and gaupe. According to the regulation, the directorate may grant a breeding permit if the wolf causes significant damage to the buff and tamrein. The decision shall take into account the size and composition of the wild game in question, the importance of the area as pasture and the extent and development of the damage. Before granting a killing permit, it shall be assessed whether preventive measures to mitigate the damage can be implemented instead. The Executive Board rejected the application on 2 March this year. The procedure is such that any complaints are prepared by the Directorate before they are sent to the Department for decision. The appeal period expired a short time ago, and the Ministry has not yet received the appeal case to which the representative Hedstrom refers. When a possible complaint comes to the department, we will deal with it carefully. In view of this, I would like to add that I intend to propose changes to the wild law before the summer, in line with the proposals that have been out for consultation. We will also prepare a plan for the further management of the wolf before the summer. The scheme will include preventive measures against wolf injury to sheep during the grazing season and a model for differentiated management. The management model will be sent to a broad consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1813	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Directorate’s assessment of the content of the application is deemed to be correct, but the assessments are assumed to be incomplete in relation to the entire content of the application. The refusal is only justified by the fact that the stock target in South Scandinavia has not been reached. The application contained many other elements that have not been emphasised in the rejection. I want to take some examples: Ulvetispa has often exposed himself to humans and almost behaved like a dog, and the indications that the wolf may be outsourced by humans are not discussed. Furthermore, it is possible that the flock to which the animal belongs has infected humans. The sum of these and other things is not added to the weight. Storing notification of the predatory game management, the Berne Convention and the Wildlife Act provides for the possibility of taking out wolves with undesirable behaviour without reaching the final stock target. Do the Councils agree to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1822	Any complaint coming to the ministry will be subject to a wide range of treatment. All the work I'm doing in this area is based on Stortingen's decision on robbery management. But I remind you again that Stortinget will have the opportunity to follow this up when I propose changes to the wild law before the summer. The proposal for the further management of the wolf is also important in this context, and this proposal must therefore be sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1829	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Today’s Newspaper mentions ‘Siris Environmental Offensive’. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘The Bondevik government never had the power to present a plan for its own wolf zone in Norway, prepared by the Directorate for Nature Management and the counties of our south-east regions. On the other hand, the Council of State confirms Siri Bjerke that the zone plan will be submitted before Easter.» As far as I can see, it will cover the southeastern Hedmark with Finnskogen and southwards east of Glomma, then most of Akershus with Oslo’s northern land and the whole of Eastfold. My question is: has this plan been consulted? It must be the case that the municipalities concerned have a right to be heard before a final plan is submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1841	For the sake of order, let me remind you that the first part of the quote from the representative Hedstrøm came out here was the newspaper's own comments. What I have said there is precisely that I want to file a case for the Storting about changes in the wild law, which I have also confirmed here today. As for the work on the zone plan, we will have a thorough discussion of this in the Government. What we are now building on is, among other things, the proposal on which the county councillors of all the counties concerned have worked. It would then be natural that this proposal might seem a season, and then go out to a wide consultation in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1851	‘The coast outside of Sunnmare has once again taken a human life as a result of a tragic accident. A fisherman fell overboard while practicing his profession as a fisherman. His son was unable to get him back into the boat, and he died after a while. A rescue helicopter, if stationed at Vigra, could arrive at the accident site in a short time, but this rescue helicopter has been removed by the Stortinget. Will the Council of State take an initiative to allow a multi-use helicopter to be stationed at Vigra?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1858	I intend to send a big message about the rescue helicopter service during the spring. Such a big message was also notified by the previous government. The message is based on proposals for changes and improvements to the rescue helicopter service promoted by a government-appointed selection in 1997. The message will include: address responsibilities for the service, response time, medical staff, requirements for new helicopters and future base patterns. In other words, an assessment of the question of the use of a multi-purpose helicopter in the North-West and any further location of such a helicopter will be included in that notification and answered accordingly. In the case of the tragic drowning accident referred to by the representative Nesvik, the Central Rescue Centre of the Sun informs us that in this specific case, a helicopter located at Vigra would have no significance for the outcome of the rescue operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1865	Whether what comes from the Sola Main Rescue Center is correct, it must be unsaid from my side. But one of the main causes and criticisms of this special accident was that the entire rescue operation – at least this is what the fishermen felt – was poorly organized. If a helicopter had been stationed on Vigra, and if it had been manned and able to make the calls that were to be made, one could get down using winch and possibly save this fisherman. It didn't happen because the nearest helicopter is on the island. It is therefore important in a district like Sunnmaere, with a large number of fishermen and boats and other coastal shipping, that we have such a rescue helicopter in place. I would like to ask the Council of State once again: will she take account of this dangerous coastal stretch when this matter is brought before the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1874	It is not difficult to agree that there must be a proper rescue helicopter service also for the North West and for the fishing fleet on Sunnmøre. What is the question is how best to take care of it. There are many elements to be included in the assessment – the location of the helicopter, the type of helicopter, whether or not it should be a fully-fledged base and the type of response time it should be. All of these elements are what together determine how to get a proper rescue helicopter service for all parts of our coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1879	Perhaps the most important thing to do on the part of the department is to look at the possibility of hiring helicopters, for example. from private companies. Among other things, I have have been in contact with a company that says that it is no problem to place a helicopter on Vigra and operate it at a much cheaper price than the previous rescue helicopters had. What has been referred to about the responsibilities is very important here, because the way this system works, the defense owns the helicopters, while the use of the rescue service lies with the Ministry of Justice. Then you have all the time broken interests. It is important to note that this county is perhaps the most fishing-dependent county in Norway. And it's important that we in the Storting can make sure that the rescue services provide the safety of those who travel at sea. This country has very high incomes from fishing and other coastal industries, and we have to make sure that they also feel the security that it is to have such a rescue helicopter in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1888	All the elements that the representative Nesvik addresses are those that should be included in the notification and that the Stortinget is also given the full opportunity to discuss in connection with the processing of the notification in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1897	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘When the Police Commissioner at Sunnmøre provided statistics for the Sunnmøre business, this was a statistics that alerted attention not only to the poor percentage of profit-criminalisation but also to the serious nature of the proceedings in the district. According to Sunnmørsposten, 8 March 2000, the Department has now reacted to the lengthy procedure by withdrawing a legal position at the Police Chamber. Will the Council of State take an initiative to maintain this position?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1906	It is not true that the Ministry of Justice has taken up a legal position at the Judicial and Public Prosecutor's Office in Sunnmøre Police District. Due to several major criminal cases, the police district has had an extraordinary police officer since 1997 in addition to the permanent lawyers. He/she is now entitled to permanent employment on first leave in one of the permanent legal posts. So what is now going on is formalising the employment relationship of the extraordinary police officer. Looking at Sunnmøre police districts compared to other comparable police districts, Sunnmøre police districts are at about the same level as the others for lawyers. However, as the representative of Nesvik also mentioned, the length of the six police districts is one of the highest. However, the Ministry is under consideration to allocate exceptional funds to Sunnmøre police districts to reduce older criminal cases and to work on more serious criminal cases in 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1917	It is true, as the Council of State says, that there has been no permanent residence in the Sunnmore police district, but there has been – as was said – an extraordinary police officer there, in addition to the permanent lawyers. Looking at developments in the length of the procedure, there is a significant number of criminal cases in the police district, where this is, in fact, also seen by the convicted, those to be judged as regrettable that it has taken such a long time to bring the case up and also in terms of punishment. I'm going to ask the council once again to answer: we expect more things to come, and is that the right way to go down prioritizing the legal positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1926	I agree with Mr Nesvik that it is important to reduce the length of the procedure in the police districts where the procedure is long. As I also said in my first answer, it is that Sunnmore police districts, as far as the number of police lawyers is concerned, are equal to other police districts that you can compare with, and that is also the number of reported conditions, the number of residents, etc. Then it is not certain that the best way to solve this is only to increase the number of posts, but rather to consider, as I have also announced, to grant an extraordinary grant to reduce the number of stays, so that Sunnmaere police districts can continue to work in a way that allows them to reduce the duration of proceedings in the long term, in the same way as the districts they can compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1933	I have to say that the answer from the Council of State is really starting to confuse me, because first you say that it is right to remove this position because you have no more jobs than elsewhere, and then you say that in 2000 you will give extra appropriations, so that you can get the remainder down. As I understand it, it is probably by adding legal positions that you can reduce the processing time. In order to bring even more cases into court and to deal with them, it is probably not useful with additional resources for the police if you remove the piece of law at the same time. My question to the Minister of Justice is: Will there be more emphasis in the future on getting even more legal positions into the police, so that the ordinary citizen in this country can be sure that in those cases where you are so lucky – at least in my district – that you are taking the relevant profit criminals, it is not considered as a problem that it takes too long to bring matters to judgment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1942	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative of Nesvik that it is important to reduce the length of the procedure. Secondly, there is a difference between increasing the number of permanent posts in a police district when you are initially even with others and making an extraordinary effort to reduce the number of redundancies in a shorter period. And that's what the department has under assessment. With regard to the third issue raised by the representative Nesvik, appropriations for police judicial posts in general, there is something the Government of course comes back to in ordinary budgetary proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1959	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘A major problem for the taxi industry in Oslo is the large number of pirate dross operating in the city, preferably in the vicinity of taxi stops. This is estimated in the media to be hundreds of pirate dross. This creates problems for the taxi industry, while weakening respect for the law. The law-abiding are undermined by those who do not respect the law. What action will the Council of State take to limit piracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1968	Piracy activities will be a criminal violation of § 26, cf. § 7 nr. 1, which requires that the person who will carry a motor vehicle will be entitled to provide for the carriage of passengers in return for remuneration. In accordance with Section 7 of the Driving Licence Regulation. In addition, point 7(a) requires drivers to: a driver's licence is required for the carriage of passengers for consideration. There is also reason to believe that piracy is often known as ‘black work’. Police action against piracy will primarily take place through criminal prosecution of such acts. This effort must be given priority, as must efforts to address other problem areas. It is primarily the responsibility of the police chief in each police district to carry out this priority and, therefore, to continuously assess to what extent efforts can and should be made to address such activities. For information, however, I can add that the Supreme Court has argued that the performance of a single driving task falls outside the provisions aimed at the ‘will-operate’ passenger service, cf. Transport Act § 7. Repetition is therefore required in order to obtain a conviction. This means that there is a need to put an end to a not insignificant effort by the police in order to get a conviction in such cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1977	I thank the Council of State for the answer, while admitting that I am very disappointed because I believe this is such a serious matter. Among other things, it was claimed from an informed perspective that organised crime is behind a part of this piracy activity. I would therefore have liked the Government to take the initiative to find solutions and to look at what measures can be taken to get something done about this. The obvious measure is, of course, to increase the resources of the police, but one can for example. – only to mention one measure – check and fine some of the private cars running in areas where only taxis are allowed to drive. This is the only way to reduce profits and thus make it less attractive to run this business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1982	What also surprised me – to say it this way – when I went into this issue of piracy, was the requirement that the Supreme Court had taken into account, and which has thus been perceived as having to take the same car twice in order to lead the case to a conviction. If this is the case, as the representative Danielsen points out, that this has evolved largely into organized crime, it may be that in this way one can more effectively carry the evidence that will be needed before the court, in order to substantiate that this is a repetitive activity of the driver of the taxi, not a single case, which is therefore not sufficient for conviction. Just that assessment and that following up that piece to find out if it is possible in an easier way to take those who are running pirate jerseys today, I want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1987	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is positive that the council wants to follow up what she said. In addition, it is in my opinion appropriate to ask the police more closely to carry out random checks, and also to initiate a meeting, among other things. with the industry and the local authorities of Oslo, so that an action plan can be drawn up to address this problem. What is paradoxical, and which, in my opinion, is a little daunting in terms of respect for law and order in this country, is that a few years ago there was a massive cleaning up of tax illegalities in the taxi industry with a view to ending ‘black’ taxi driving. But today, it is actually those who are law-abiding and who are running clean in this industry, who are being squandered at the expense of those who are engaged in illegal activities and who are thereby undermining industry and respect for law and order, and also the offer that the public should be entitled to in respect of taxi operations. So I hope that the Council of State gets to grips with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e1996	I will take with me the moments that the representative Danielsen has mentioned. But I would nevertheless like to stress that I am initially skeptical about some way of going in and overseeing the priority that individual police districts are making of what matters they see as the most important priority in their district, with the resources they have at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2004	I want to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Why is it that the Ministry of Justice, against the intentions of the majority of the population, instructs the police officer in the North-Møre Police District to keep a lenght officer on duty at the Surnadal and Rindal Lensmannskontoret?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2011	It is not correct that the Ministry of Justice has ordered the police officer in Northmore to keep a lenght officer position available at the Surnadal and Rindal Lensmann offices. In 1999, two posts were assigned to the North-Mørre Police District, one of which, following negotiations with the organisations of the delegates, was placed at the Surnadal and Rindal Länsmannskontoret and occupied. Later in 1999, the bilgeman of Surnadal and Rindal retired after the age limit. However, in view of the lack of operational budgets for 2000 as well, the police chief in Northern Ireland has decided to keep three posts in the police district open until further notice. One of these is the man-man-man position mentioned here, which became vacant due to internal insurrection after the bilgeman left. The Chief of Police is responsible for an ongoing assessment of the budgetary situation in the police district. It's all the other stuff in St. Prp. No 1 for 1998-99 opened up to keep police districts unoccupied.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2024	What surprises me is that here in this room we are creating one budget after another, there is one wish after another, even having decided that we should secure the 300 students who come out of the political sphere, work in the future, and we are all – I believe almost politically – a few that we should now bet on strengthening police resources in the districts and cities, and then we feel that there is a setting up, and they may have added two or three months, then to be added without anyone, and then to make the posts vacant. Does the Council not see that this is in a way to put blues in the eye of people who have confidence in the adoption of the Bill and the measures taken by the Stortinget in implementing decisions, to give people in the districts and cities – yes, in the whole country – a safer everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2029	What the Storting decides in addition to job homes is, of course, a budgetary framework, and it is, therefore, the duty of the police officers to keep the budgetary framework allocated to them. And in order to comply with the overall budgetary framework allocated to them by the budget decision of the Grand Duchy, it is in some districts that you keep jobs unoccupied. It is precisely to comply with the decisions taken by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2034	I understand that the Council of State in one way has an excuse because it has our Council of State for only fourteen days, and that the budget has been presented by another government, but still its Labour Party, represented by the Council of State, with responsibility for this existing budget. Let me now say that I will be so big of myself that I apologize to the Council of State, and that I will give her the opportunity to come back to the matter, simply: will the Council of State try through the revised national budget, which the Labour Party and this government are now going to present, to change the framework, so that one in the vigilant officers and positions in the police can now be added for the rest of the year, and especially perhaps in this position that I have here drawn up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2041	It is perhaps because the representative Solholm knows that I am new, that he is trying to get me to say something about the revised national budget before the revised national budget is promoted by the Government, but it is therefore such that I have no intention of saying anything about the content of the revised national budget until the revised national budget has been treated and promoted by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2049	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The Ministry of Justice paid NOK 95 000 on 2 March 2000 for the search for the missing persons for the ‘Sleipner’ loss. The missing persons also received 150 000 kroner in support of the company Hardanger Sunnhordlandeske Dampskipsselskap [[HSD]] Will the Council of State provide additional funds for search in line with the promises of the former Minister of Justice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2058	The public has contributed considerable resources in this matter. In addition to the above 95 000 kroner, the Ministry of Justice has contributed approximately. Two million. for the search after the end of the rescue operation. This money is given as an extra appropriation to the Hordaland Police District, which has had the overall responsibility for the searches. In addition, the Defence has contributed to the use of the special vessel KNM ‘Tyr’ for search. In addition, I would like to stress that when they mentioned NOK 95 000 were given, it was also clearly stated by the Ministry of Justice that additional support could not be expected. However, it is such that the Defence Special Vessel KNM ‘Tyr’ will nevertheless carry out further searches in week 14, i.e. from next week. The costs of this will be borne by the public. A coordination meeting is being held today, and the area of the search will be defined in consultation with both the police and the relatives. The aim of the meeting is to gather expertise from the Maritime Defence Agency, Hardanger Sunnhordland Steamship Company [[HSD]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2065	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We live as we know it in one of the richest countries in the world, and I think, among other things. on the basis of this, it is unworthy that relatives should be required to collect money in order to find their missing persons. None of us can really understand the situation they're related to, without having experienced anything similar themselves. I still think we have to try to understand the desperate situation they are in, and I had therefore hoped and taken it as a matter of course that the state put up financially and at least did what was possible for the missing ones to be found, so that the relatives at least got a grave to go to to remember their loved ones. However, I interpret the Council's response as a bit positive, but it was a little unclear as to the means to be used. I have previously recorded that the Council of State would have a professional assessment of this before one would go in with additional funds. I would therefore like to ask what might be expected of the amount and how long such a professional assessment would take.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2074	It's very easy – or I don't know if it's easy – to understand that the relatives of such an accident, or others who lose their closeness to the sea, need to find the dead, so you get a grave to go to. At the same time, of course, there are limits to how long you can search for dead people at sea. It is in some way in the nature of the matter that at some point the chances of finding the deceased are so small that you cannot continue to apply. That is the dilemma we face at all times. I asked for a professional assessment that was based on an assessment of whether you have any reason to believe that these are the possibilities to find those who have died by looking further. The assessment I've received through the Hordaland Police Chamber is that you think, as you thought when you stopped the search at an earlier time, that the chances of finding the dead are very small. However, this new round of KNM “Tyre” is made so that there is a hope of finding the dead in that round, but if it does not, I am not prepared to continue to provide support for further searches.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2081	I am both amazed and disappointed that the Council of State has not yet understood the seriousness of the situation. Of course, it is commendable that some private individuals initiate a collection operation, but I still want to ask the Council of State: Is it really one of the richest countries in the world that in such a case one has to collect money privately to search for the missing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2086	I do not think there is any simple answer to this. If you say yes to always cover the costs when private take the initiative to collect money, it means that the public will always continue to cover the costs of searching as long as the relatives want it. That limit may not be the limit you should draw. Nor is it the limit indicated by the sample that has conducted an investigation into the search for dead people at sea, and where it is just drawn up that there must be several elements in the evaluation of the length of time to search and when to complete a search, and, among other things, how to complete a search. the possibility of finding the deceased will be an important element. It is clear that the emotional desire to seek much longer than any professional, independent assessment will be due to the fact that there is no longer any hope of finding the dead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2094	‘In its Declaration of Accession, the Government promises initiative for a joint programme between authorities and businesses to develop new greenhouse gas cleaning technologies CO2. During the discussion of the Energy Communication, the Workers' Party voted against the proposal of the Centre Parties for such a programme with several concrete proposals. By 1 June 2000, the Government shall facilitate the construction of conventional gas power plants without CO2 cleaning requirements. Will the clean technology development programme be completed as quickly as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2101	As I find it difficult to recognize the premise of the question, I see the need to update the Storting on what has happened in this matter. In the context of the 1998 budget, the Jagland Government proposed the creation of a technology fund and an environmental fund. These funds would include: support measures to develop new, better and more environmentally friendly technologies, including: CO2 reducing measures. As a former parliamentary leader in the Left, Kvassheim is probably aware that the proposal for a technology fund was removed by the Bondevik government. The environment fund was also greatly reduced. In the absence of progress in this matter, a majority in the Stortinget made up of the Right, Labour and Progress Party a note on increasing research in this field in connection with the budget for the current year. The centre part was not included in this comment. I interpret it as these parties as late as last December did not see the need for such research. Fortunately, these parties used Christmas holidays well, because in February this year these parties also saw the need for such research. Although I see the need to take back some of what we have lost in this area in the last few years, I will focus on the progress that the previous government has made. I want to show you here the spontaneous Question Time on February 16th this year, where Arnstad informed me that she would propose a programme for the development of CO2-free gas power technology in connection with next year's government budget, and that a work was started to establish such a programme. I want to carry on this work. The new government sees that the stake will primarily meet three needs: further develop the technology in areas where Norway is already well advanced internationally to further develop the competences of the Norwegian research community in some priority research areas which are important for the development of this technology to develop and strengthen cooperation between the Norwegian and international research communities in the field; The government will continue to implement such an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2124	We have had several opportunities to discuss what the Council of State used to say a lot of the answer, that is, what has happened, and the disagreement about the technology fund and the progress there. However, what is far different and much more is the outline of a programme for the development of CO2-free gas power plants presented by the centre parties during the processing of the Energy Communication in Stortinget. It was a program that would have speeded up technology development in Norwegian companies. Now one is in danger of part of this work shooting speed abroad. So my question is: does the Council not see the need to quickly present something more than just a positive willingness to contribute to research efforts, but simply sketch out the framework conditions that make it this track that is being selected in future rather than conventional gas power stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2133	Of course, I'm glad that there's now a deal in this area, and that the center party is now some with the other parties on the Stortinget that one should be investing in getting CO2-free technology. Given that we have lost some years in this area, I agree that it is important to bet and get started quickly on this work. I showed in my contribution to the former oil and energy minister, Marit Arnstad, who outlined the progress of this scheme in Question Time on 16 February this year. The new government wants to have the same progress in this area as the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2140	I note that there is no agreement in this area, because the Workers' Party has not so far said that they are willing to use tax and tax facilities to get CO2-free gas power plants to fire speed. And even if it is that it will take time to develop a complete programme that could possibly be presented in the budget for the coming years, it is a strong wish that, in the context of what is to be presented before the summer, there will be signals that this new way of thinking about creating new technologies, also has the support of the Government. So my follow-up question is, wouldn't it be positive signals on this forward-looking path to go and develop the clean solutions? Information Director Tor Steinum in Norsk Hydro said the other day that it will take at least five to six years to build conventional gas power plants in Norway. That means that if we want to, we have time to get the cleanest solutions that are the most competitive, and those that are chosen when it comes to building.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2147	I have to admit that I have difficulty seeing that there is a lack of a positive signal. The Labour Party has already put forward proposals in 1997, where we wanted an increase in investment in this area. It was the Bondevik government that removed that bet that time. We have to respect that. We're supposed to be involved in resuming some of the lost. But in my view, the question that the representative Kvassheim now asks lies outside the question that was the basis of my answer, namely whether a programme between authorities and businesses should be launched to develop new cleaning technology. That's where I want to say that we have great ambitions. When it comes to progress, we want to focus on the progress that the previous government made. However, the other questions, about billing fees etc., in my view, are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2157	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘More press releases in the past week have strongly criticised the costly parachute Statoil’s former group manager as an end-of-life compensation. According to Dagbladet on 22 March 2000, this can amount to up to 40 million. krones. Is the Council of State in agreement with the criticism that an entire state company should have such agreements, and what will the Council of State, such as the Assembly of Statoil, do to clean up these matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2166	I think it's right to inform you a little about the actual circumstances of this case. It is right that the former head of the group of Statoil, Harald Norvik, has entered into an agreement with the board of Statoil that secures him retirement from the day he formally leaves the company. Harald Norvik took up his position as group manager in Statoil on 15 January 1988. After the addition letter and the addition contract, dated 8 January 1988, Norvik had the right to receive full pay for two years if he later left at the company's request. Norvik's pension and insurance schemes should follow the current conditions in Statoil at all times. From the age of 60, Norvik and Statoil had a mutual right to retire Norvik on terms that would be agreed on later. A new agreement between Statoil and Norvik was concluded on 23 October 1996 and approved by the Management Board on the same day. This agreement regulates in more detail Norvik's rights and obligations. It was, among other things. agreed that Norvik could not carry out work for enterprises which are in whole or in part in competition with the core business of Statoil or its subsidiary owned by Statoil, without this being approved in writing by the Board of Statoil. A breach of this condition would result in a loss of rights under the pension agreement. Norvik's right to a two-year salary if his end according to the company's wishes is attached to the 1996 agreement. In addition, an alternative was introduced. Statoil could, if there were any particular reasons, and after being asked by Norvik, agree that he would stop and still agree that he would immediately have paid a full-time pension if he had been the group manager for 12 years or more. If this option were used, the right to a two-year salary would be lost. It is also included in this option that under certain conditions there may be a reduction in pension payments in each year until he reaches the age of 60. Statoil is a limited liability company. It follows from the Stock Act that daily rents are appointed by the Board of Directors. As a result, the Board of Directors will also be responsible for determining the terms and conditions applicable to the company’s day-to-day manager, for example. wages, pensions, final terms, etc. It is the board of Statoil, therefore, that has concluded the agreement with former group leader Norvik, who is responsible for following up this agreement. Otherwise, I will agree with the assessments expressed by the Prime Minister earlier today in the spontaneous Question Time in an answer to the representative Kristin Halvorsen on the same matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2181	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I found disappointing. I understand, of course, that Statoil, in competition with other companies, has good pay and working conditions to attract skilled managers. However, I have gained experience that this agreement is far better than what is usual in business. We have to remember that the company Statoil is a Heiled State Company that, at least on paper, is owned by the Norwegian people. Does the Council of State really think it is right that a state company should be the most likely to distribute such golden and precious parachutes? Isn't the Council of State afraid of the negative signals a give to the Norwegian people, not least on the basis of the fact that several representatives of the Government's own party have criticised the large wage increases we have seen in Norwegian business lately? Even in the Government’s Declaration of Accession, one states that one shall ‘ensure work to all’ and ‘fair distribution’ – and this may not be ‘just distribution’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2190	First of all, it's interesting that the Progress Party has suddenly been occupied by state ownership, and it's interesting if the Progress Party now wants one to have different rules for these companies than for the private ones. This agreement is entirely the responsibility of the Board of Directors, it is those who have concluded this agreement, and it is in line with the Share Act, regardless of whether it is the State that owns the shares or whether it is private. On a question earlier today from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Prime Minister on the same subject, the Prime Minister made clear what he thinks about this agreement, and I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2199	The Council of State is Statoil's General Assembly and, in reality, the instrument of influence by the Norwegian people, or the owners, on the decisions of the company. Does not the Council of State feel a responsibility towards the Norwegian people for just clearing up these critical issues, and has the Council of State carried out a legal assessment of the binding nature of the agreement in question?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2204	I notice again that there are signs of a new policy from the Progress Party's side in this area, namely that the General Assembly should begin to interfere in what is governed by its tasks in state corporations. This is contrary to what this party has previously faced when it comes to the state companies. When it applies to the contract itself, as far as I have the basis for expressing my opinion, it is an agreement that is legally binding. I don't have the ability to comment on this any more than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2211	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-29.ana.ud585e2220	There is no record.
