ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e74	The representatives of Mimmi Bæivi, Randi Karlstrøm, Kari Økland and Astrid Marie Nistad, who have been licensed, have once again taken up their seats. The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e93	With this, I would like to propose a public dental reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e98	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e110	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party 10 minutes and the Socialist Left Party, Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to five lines in response to statements by the members of the Government, and that those who had to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e119	The Defence Committee hereby submits its position to St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 Adaptation of defence to participation in international operations. There is a broad consensus in the Committee in a range of areas related to objectives and policy orientations, but it is divided into several and a minority when it relates to the implementation rate and the financing of costs. When the UN was established in the wake of the Second World War, the main objective was to avoid such disasters in the future by establishing an international and solidarity legal order under the auspices of the United Nations. Legal order requires police. This was established by providing strengths to Member States when necessary. The first big attempt was to see if the new world organization could put action behind words, when North Korea went to South Korea in 1950. Under the leadership of the Norwegian Secretary-General, Trygve Lie, the UN saw itself as a growing task. Since then, there have been a large number of UN operations on most continents until today's engagement, not least in the Balkans. Eventually, it has been shown that the UN is doing well to conduct relatively simple peacekeeping operations under its own control, but no more complicated. The UNPROFOR operation in Bosnia in the 1990s, as yet in the disaster in Srebrenica, was a very tragic illustration of this. After the end of the Cold War, NATO changed its strategic concept of crisis management on behalf of the United Nations or the OSCE outside NATO's own geographical area. The first major task was to take over after the UN in Bosnia. During the 1990s, a kind of division of labour has developed in this area. The UN primarily has a mandated function and continues to carry out conflict prevention and simpler peace-keeping operations under its own direction, while NATO is dealing with more complex operations in the Euro-Atlantic region. The EU is now ready to carry out simpler Petersberg operations. In the Gulf and Albania, we found that coalitions of wills successfully carried out peace operations with a mandate from the United Nations. Throughout this process, from the first year of the United Nations, Norway has been an active driver and participant in a wide range of peace operations. When it comes to efforts in relation to the population, we have been among the foremost in the world. In the same way as our friends in Scandinavia, however, it was always the case when it came to sharp operations, that we had support functions, sanitation, transport, etc. The rough work and the risk left us to others. Those who had to take the risk and lose, of course, saw that Scandinavians were holding on to being finer than other people, raising up as well, almost like the nobility in the old days. A requirement therefore arose that those who were in favour of an operation had to line up with others even when there was a risk. During the 1990s, this view was passed through here in Stortinget. When NATO decided in 1992 to take on crisis management tasks on behalf of the United Nations or the OSCE and ordered it, it was obviously not possible for any Member State to make a reservation in this area. Early in the 1990s, the Stortinget decided to put troops at NATO's disposal: Telemark Batalion, a squadron F-16 fighter aircraft and some marine vessels. The premise was that these forces could move out in all types of operations on very short notice. A company of Telemark Bataljon was soon in place in Sarajevo and did a very good job there, but then the whole thing stagnated. During the Kosovo crisis, seven of our fighter pilots finally stood shoulder to shoulder with our allies in a sharp operation, just enough without air-to-ground capacity, which they should soon get, but it took three months to get the rest of Telemark Batalion in place. Last spring and again now recently we witnessed that Norway broke its obligations against NATO when it was up to us to put a vessel in NATO's standing mine clearance force, because the contractual relationship was not in order. We have spent billions in the 1990s getting nine new mining vessels. In eight years, however, we haven't put in place a system so that the crew is there when they're doing a job for the alliance. This is a very embarrassing matter for Norway. It is therefore absolutely necessary that we now do something about this, and the most important thing is the practical follow-up after today's Storting is taking a decision in this area again. Paper tigers have us more than enough of them already. Against this background, the Stortinget is today invited to decide that a Defence Force will be created for international operations, with entries from all arms branches and special forces. The forces previously reported to NATO and the WEU are part of the force. Today's UN force is being shut down, and we're going to operate with only one force: the intervention force. In particular, due to the above-mentioned lack of follow-up to the previous decision of the Grand Duchy in this area, the Grand Duchy is today invited to take the following decisions: ‘In the context of the annual budgets, the Defence Committee of the Grand Duchy shall be provided with an overview of the operational status of the war structure, including the operational status of the Defence Force for international operations and any proposals for changes in the composition of that force.’;» This is to ensure that the size is properly informed about the situation so that tasks, capacity and permissions can be placed in a context that is regular and systematic. A comprehensive committee stresses that the goal now needs to be that Norway will soon be able to meet existing commitments in this area. The composition of the proposed effort is set out in Annex 1 to the configuration. In total, it will be a power pool of over 3,500 people. In relation to the Norwegian people, this must say to be ambitious. A corresponding EU force would be about There are 300,000 people, but there they are now known about about about 300,000 people. 60,000. In the message, the investment costs of establishing the force were given as unsafe, but of a size of 520 million. kr. During the committee's work on the matter, it was clear that this had to be increased at all costs, NOK 1.1 billion. A corresponding difference was identified when operating costs were incurred at home. A collective committee finds this difference strikingly large and points out that the cost implications of the submissions in the message should have been far better worked out than in this case. During the management of the current long-term message, the Storting, which is known for out-related expenditure on international operations, went beyond the ordinary defence framework because they are difficult, often impossible, to run. This principle has been applied in St.meld. No 38, and a group committee agrees. The message proposed to cover other expenses associated with the establishment and operation of the power within the scope of the investment re-disposal. The Committee's plurality, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, support this, while the minority, the Progress Party and the Right, warn against exacerbating the already serious double imbalance in the defence economy, that is. the lack of consistency between objectives and means and between operation and investment. The minority point out that if this imbalance is not to be exacerbated, new tasks must be financed by fresh means. There is still a great potential for rationalization in defence. However, all experience suggests that a waiter collects the gain until it is achieved. In the first place, rationalisation will otherwise often require investment expenditure. For my part, I would strongly warn the plurality against continuing to use the logic of the pelvis with the pelvis when it comes to the defense, "If you want it, you can do it." This is irresponsible and unworthy of a parliament. Chapter 2.4 of the message states the following: ‘The importance of the US for NATO remains absolutely essential, and therefore US demands for a change in the burden-sharing across the Atlantic must be taken extremely seriously.’ A joint committee agrees on this and stresses that such a change in burden allocation will necessarily have to have a resource impact. The fact that the US, with its 270 million inhabitants, has twice the EU's defence budget with its 370 million inhabitants underlines the dimensions of what we are talking about. I see it myself that fresh money for setting up and operating the intervention force is a contribution from the Norwegian side to such a change of burden distribution over the Atlantic. The plurality of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, is in favour of adopting the proposed force now in the message. The minority, the Progress Party and the Right, are in favour of us immediately being able to fulfil our obligations, and that we are gradually building up the strength of effort in terms of needs and economics, so as to avoid adding another glowing tongue to the defense's nest, and also because the composition of the force is likely to be affected by what is adopted when the next long-term message is to be addressed in this house in one year's time. Bitter experience shows that advisability when it comes to accessing personnel is a requirement for the defence to be able to contribute effectively internationally. A joint committee points out that this is now an integral part of the ongoing tasks of defence that Norway has committed itself to carry out through international agreements and that an appeal mechanism for professional addendum to the defence, including: based on experience from Denmark, should be evaluated and presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. I hope that this can all happen in ours, so that it can be a quick end to today's unworthy relationship in this area. When it comes to the security policy backlog, a comprehensive committee points out that Norway has such a position in strategic geography that we must be able to both defend own countries and participate in international operations, that in a given situation, a sufficiently high threshold on our part can be decisive for the peace and stability of our neighbourhood, and that Norway itself must make a significant contribution in this context. Therefore, it is so important that we find the right coordination and balance between the ability to defend own countries and to participate in international operations. The capacity for external action should also be such that it is fully capable of defending own countries. We must never forget that the care of Norway's freedom and peace must always be given priority. With these words I will recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e177	The announcement of the cancellation today was submitted by the government of Bondevik, but the government of Stoltenberg informed Stortinget in a letter dated 27 March. that the notification is maintained and recommended that the Committee continue its examination. One might wonder: Is there a need for a roll-out notice on the adaptation of defence to participation in international operations? Norway has a lot of experience and knowledge in this area, while there is always a need to increase this knowledge. The defence also needs a better adaptation to this type of activity than it is today. In this respect, I would like to refer to the changes that have occurred in international policy in the last ten years. The safety challenges and potential threats to Norway and NATO as a whole have changed significantly. At the same time, we see that local conflicts of the kind we have seen in the Balkans have necessitated significant international involvement. In addition, other types of potential threats, such as terrorism and the use of weapons of mass destruction, are emerging. These developments have led to a much higher quantitative and qualitative extent of international peace operations today than 10 years ago. The many operations under the auspices of NATO, the United Nations and the OSCE are the ones we know best in Norway. But there are many operations in other parts of the world, where we do not participate, or only participate with military observers. The government says in the big news: ‘It is the Government’s view that, in the new security policy situation, it is essential for Norway’s security that we strengthen our ability to actively engage in international military operations.’ This assessment is fully supported by the Workers' Party. The fact that the times are changing, and that the operations have changed compared to the past, the Defence Committee was told when we recently visited Elverum and soldiers who were preparing to travel to Kosovo as part of the KFOR force. It was a very advanced equipment they were supposed to handle, including equipment that was not known to them in advance. The Communication makes it clear that the requirements for our contributions to international operations are increasing as regards response time, training and equipment as well as the ability to interact with the forces of other countries. Therefore, the defence's ability to contribute to international forces needs to be improved. At the same time, it is the Workers' Party's view that an active follow-up to the defence's various tasks, both nationally and internationally, will be mutually reinforcing. It's valuable lessons to take with you in the national defense. It has been discussed whether one should not wait with the processing of this cancellation message until we will deal with the next long-term defence message. It is planned to be presented for this expansion during the spring of 2001. However, it is the Workers' Party's view that it is already reasonable to outline what types of forces Norway needs in terms of international forces, and that this can be done without giving any guidance as to how the defence's overall organisation can best be designed in the future. It is also the case that this force should be part of the ordinary defence structure. The aim is to be able to contribute credible contributions to military actions directed by the UN, NATO, OSCE or VEU/EU. As stated in the Communication, Norway has been actively involved since the United Nations set up its first operations, for which there has been considerable support in the United Kingdom. Participation has varied from one operation to another, and the Committee points out in its comments to the largest international operations we have participated in over time. In 1998, I was part of the Norwegian delegation to the UN General Assembly, and one of the areas in which we were briefed was the UN peacekeeping operations. At that time we had Norwegian forces in Bosnia in SFOR, Lebanon in UNIFIL and Macedonia in UNPREDEP. In addition, we had military observers in Angola, Prevlaka and the Middle East as well as the police in Western Sahara, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Sierra Leone. At the same time, we got an overview of all the countries that at that time participated in peacekeeping operations, and that was interesting reading. Per. On 31 August 1998, 77 countries participated in various forces around the world. In total, it was approx. 14,500 soldiers out, and Norway was among the nations that participated with most soldiers. But both Poland, Bangladesh, Austria, Ghana, Finland and Ireland had more than us. Some critical voices claim that we are contributing more than necessary, and that former governments have been very eager to display flags, as it is called in military circles. What I just said shows that even though we have a lot of staff, we're not always the best in the class. It is part of the Labour Party's international policy that we should show international solidarity. We are one of the world's most resource-intensive countries and that we have a defense there is reason to be proud of the job being done internationally. At the same time, we are dependent on the support of our allies. By participating even when others need our support, we show that Norway places this high, we show responsibility, and we strengthen our own security position. It is when we come to the power registers and the contribution of strength that the committee divides into a majority and a minority, and as has been said before, the majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party exist. The Communication recommends the establishment of a broad composite effort force called the Defence Force’s performance force for international operations. We believe that such a strength will increase options when a crisis arises, and it could create greater predictability in the planning of our foreign exposures. When this intervention force is set up, the previous division into Norwegian NATO reaction forces and the UN response forces will be lost. The new strength shall be used in any operation where the Government, in consultation with the Stortinget, considers that Norway should participate. We have, as everyone knows, had Telemark Batalion, which was an attempt to resolve the imbalance between response time and endurance. This was not quite successful. The quality of the strength was very good, after the feedback we received from other partners, but the readiness for the strength as a whole has been limited. There has been a discussion about the size of the strength, in particular this discussion took place shortly after the message was sent to Stortinget. As a result, Minister of Defence Løwer sent a letter to the Committee dated 5 October 1999, which included some of these statements and made it clear that, although it has been said that the force should consist of a staff of 3 500, it is only a theoretical possibility and for a very limited period of time that the entire force should be out at the same time. The aim of the Government is that Norway should be able to keep a level of our ongoing exclusion from what we had in the 1990s, which was about 1500, with staff from all branches. In addition, the objective is to maintain a certain level of preparedness and response capacity if new crisis situations arise. We, who make up the majority, agree that it is recommended for the Army to establish a two-part effort force consisting of a reaction force that will be ready for deployment within a maximum of 30 days of the decision, and a reinforcement force that will be ready within 90 days. The reaction power could be operational from the summer of 2001, possibly some time later. The full effort will be operational by the summer 2005 at the latest. The input strength is based on units set up in the home structure. A scheme is recommended in which those who so wish and who are inside the first duty and otherwise qualified are offered limited financial compensation for the use of the last three months of the first duty in combination for participation in a given part of the army's reaction force. The strength will be supplemented as necessary and will also consist of permanent staff. The pattern will then be as follows: nine months of initial service, three months of separate training, six months of off duty, 12 months of standby at home and at the end of six months of off duty. As indicated in the suspension, there is a disagreement regarding the 12-month emergency period. The minority thinks it's too long. The reasons given by the working party that it should mainly be 12 months old are the professional military recommendations based on experience gained from previous outsourcing, inter alia. UNIFIL study. The majority’s argument that finding work or education may be difficult during the emergency period can be understood. But we are of the opinion that peace-building services and some peace-keeping services can be perceived as mentally burdensome by those who are out, and that one should be able to live in peace at home for a long period before a possible departure. Both for the individual soldier and for the family it is good to calm down after a mission. At the same time, we are open to adapt the service length to the service load. Some flexibility is necessary. The second disagreement in the committee arises when we address the economic consequences for the establishment of the force. During the examination of the notification by the Committee, it became clear that the estimate of costs presented in the notification was insufficient. This led the Committee to send a question to Minister of Defence Løwer. In a letter to the Presidential Board dated 25 February 2000, we were given a new assessment of the investment needs. It is quite surprising that the Bondevik government first made a notification with a cost estimate for the investment need, and then came back with an estimate where the deviation is so significant. At the same time, we know that, in connection with our commitment to Kosovo, there have also been large exceedances. This shows that the kind of actions that we may have to take part in in the future have a different requirement for equipment, and thus increased costs, than what we have experienced in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e238	The setting we are debating is based on St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99, and as others have mentioned earlier, the text tells a lot about the intentions – adaptation of defence to participation in international operations. It can be read in black, and it can be read in grayscale. However, the nature of the suspension is that Norway is in a very special situation in relation to some of the other countries within the alliance and within those countries that are gradually also making possible EU cooperation more strongly on the defence side. So there is an overall committee that points to the necessary balance that must be between the national defence interests and the interests that we must safeguard through continued participation in international operations. In my opinion, if we do not maintain this balance properly and properly, we can get hurt in order to invest so heavily in international operations that we do not meet the purely national defence needs. I read the Committee's comments to that effect that the Committee agrees that such a balance must be achieved. The Committee also says that Norway has a very special responsibility to take care of. I think it is important that we communicate this to our allies, so that you can understand the balance that Norway – in the situation that we are in and that we have to expect to be in the future – takes into account. Prioritisation will be strictly necessary under the circumstances we are now facing. It's kind of keeled to deal with this message now, while we know that there's a bigger work going on that will change our defence structure. For this reason, it is also necessary that, following the treatment we have now undergone in connection with the setting, and the resulting work, we should be aware that if there is to be a sense in a larger defence analysis resulting in a notification for the Stortinge next year, it is not necessary to go so far and so fast as to take part in international operations that the main work done is being undermined. I feel that at this point the Committee has shown a balance in taking it into account. What becomes a challenge is not, by and large, participation in international operations. We've done that before, we've done that for a long time – and we've done it with quite a lot of volume. The rapporteur has explained how Norwegian participation is compared to the countries we otherwise like to compare with. We are very well ahead of all the others, and when we see how some countries are now struggling to stable on their legs a strength of 60 000, which should be the EU contribution to reaction forces, yes, our contribution is indeed quite large. If we show will to this, this also has a price. It'll cost you to participate. And the costs over the last few years have shown that an average price of 1 million. kr per. Participant is not too involved, because you need to invest in special equipment, you need to provide money for contracts, and you need to get an education that makes sense. When the Committee has so strongly stressed the need for additional funding for international operations, it is precisely because we do not have an overview of how developments will be in this area during the coming period. And then, within a tight defense budget, you can't drive and play accordion games, which someone seems to like, with the budget. Therefore, it is important that there is an overall committee that is firmly behind these principles. It's taken some time to get there. In the Advancement Party, we are very happy that we have come your way. It is now necessary to take a lead on this further, so that the defence team is aware that these are the Storting's intentions. We are pleased that former Minister of Defense Løwer in the letter she presented was careful to emphasise precisely this with the funding. And I haven't seen anything from the sitting government that was supposed to provide anything else, which would be very eye-catching in the light of the comments that are available here. Thus, a degree of funding has been ensured to ensure that what has to be done with the Defence for the rest is maintained within the framework it has. It can certainly be heavy enough. Another important part of this is of course to provide a recruitment and a continuation that allows the level to be achieved. And then it would be quite ambitious if you were to kind of sell out this whole power package that was in the original troppelist. Former Minister of Defence Løwer's letter shows that, when the committee began to ask, the level of ambition might have been somewhat more soluble. The problem was that you sold this as if you were going to put 3,500 on your legs right now, right away. And everyone knows – at least eventually – that when you have to have strengths out, you have to have two or three times the same strength at home, and the contracts must be secured. And as the rapporteur said, we have constantly stumbled into the contract issue. Not really predictable, not clear enough economic framework for those we ask to set up – yes, then this will be as impossible as before to get an order if it is not now brought to its order. So it is necessary to make things easier for young people to try to bet for a while. When we established Telemark Batalion, the Progress Party pointed out that we had to have greater flexibility in contracts, maybe longer contracts. Then there were some, in the Cosmosque times, who were very afraid that this could mean a more professionalization of the defense. I'm glad you've finally realized that the Progress Party pointed at that time, so the way to go. The difference between the policy positions in this position is relatively marginal. It may not be so easy to read about the major inequalities – and that is not so. The right hand side and the propulsion part say, "Run slowly." The plural says run - a little faster. But it's also a good degree of caution that I see lies in the majority's position. And I think it's important. If you drive too fast, you can drive in the ditch, and we'd rather not be there, some of us. So it's this thing about recruiting. We know that we still have to recruit young people through voluntary contracts. Then I think that the majority clinging to the model becomes somewhat rigid, and some of the things that follow in a joint committee comment a little later, that one should look a little bit at how this works, testifying that on the majority side one also has a certain elasticity. But I think it would carry the wrong place if you now have the quadrilateral on this mathematical model, you have to be open to solutions so that the defense doesn't get completely tied up in this. The biggest contributor in this is the Army, and it's not sure that this fits in. I believe that the difference here between the Advance Party, the Right and the majority is not as great as the previous speaker tried to make it. What we're saying is, be a little flexible, be a little careful. And when it goes on this gap of twelve months between, maybe it's just because young people will have some problems getting jobs. And remember, in the case of others, who sign contracts when they are in the middle of their professional life, employers may not be as willing. Have we considered whether we want legislation that authorizes this? This is a significant problem. When we know at the same time that a good part of the order – maybe up to 50 pst. – comes from the ranks of the responsible officers, as the problem will not be reduced. And in the hearing with the Reserve Officers' Association, this came out very clearly. With regard to the continuing command, the Committee proposes to evaluate the so-called Danish model. You make a reservation initially, you get to take the consequences, and those who don't make a reservation have to be found out about being ordered to serve abroad. In my opinion, it should be a matter of course for Norwegian officers. I have seen that there is considerable disagreement within the officer corps about just this. I have then tried to point out some differences. What should perhaps be said is that the basis for the communication we received was obviously not good enough, and the entire work of the committee suggested that this became a lot more expensive than the previous government had pointed to. We must bear that in mind. Therefore, it is again important for me to stress that the financial operations related to this need to be in place. And it'll cost you to get contracts in place. Flexibility is very important in this context. When it comes to the last part of this, which is related to what we're doing now, we should lay the foundation so that we now ensure the long-termity of what we're doing. This means, as I said earlier in the post, that there has to be considerable effort to ensure that contracts and bases are in place. If we don't, we won't succeed in anything, and then we've been exceptionally bad with those we want to attract, and not least with our allies. And as I said, some of the experiences we've had haven't been very good when we're not able to meet the requirements we set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e272	This message was presented by the government of Bondevik, and the new government has maintained it, as so much as other government policies of Bondevik. You can ask yourself, why change government? But that is probably part of a completely different debate. The purpose of St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 and the comments of the majority today are to outline the types of forces Norway needs in terms of our future participation in multinational strength structures and international operations. The message outlines how these can be created and maintained without leading to a future organisation of defence. Someone might question whether it is necessary to fix this now - can't we wait for the next long-term message? For us in the Christian People's Party it is important to get the frames around construction, training etc. in place. We are already in Kosovo. We do not know how long we must stand in Kosovo. The construction of an effort force is also a signal to our European and allied friends about what they can count on from Norway — in short, our credibility. And there is a need for the Defense to have a defined structure for building up the Response Force, so it becomes a more integrated and defined part of the Defence Tasks, along with the Defense National Tasks. We also see that Storting's assumptions for, among other things, Response time was not met when Telemark Bataljon was to be deployed in Kosovo. I fully understand that this took time, as it took, among other things. was the safety of the personnel who delayed that process. But the more this shows the need for an effective framework tool for training, upgrading and maintaining the response force. In this context, I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party, who often point this out, will not be involved in and decide on an entire tool, but will take this piece by piece and share, or, as the chairman of the Committee said, rust slowly in the individual budgets. Our goal must be that we are able to fulfil our obligations, and the establishment of the response force according to the message's assumptions is what will ensure this. In the message cap. 2.2 The threat picture for Norway is described today. There is no military concrete threat today, but although we do not have an existing threat to our nation, the potential future threats of another and not as traditional as we had before. In the future, we will be able to face regional conflicts outside our neighbourhoods, possible threats to oil and gas installations on a Norwegian base, to our merchant fleet or to limited targets in mainland Norway. Nor can we exclude the spread of a regional conflict. Finally, Russia is not an enemy today either, but the development of Russia is important, and it is important that we support democracy building there. I have chosen to spend some time defining a threat picture, because it will give us the answer as to why we need a defense, which is sometimes absent in the defence debate. It should be characterized by: why a defense? What do we need to meet the answer? Then we can talk about where. After Kosovo, we have had a rather quiet debate on mandates. For us in the Christian People's Party, this is the task of the United Nations. We build it on the traditional principles of mandate, but in the message chapter. 2.6.3 it says: ‘If, in a situation posing a threat to international peace and security, it would not be possible to obtain an explicit authorisation of use of force from the UN Security Council, an assessment must be made, if necessary, as to whether there can nevertheless be a basis of international law for the use of force. The UN Charter provides an opening for this.» In order not to draw up a full mandate discussion, it is important that we both analyse what we did and prepare for a new situation where the same issues will be relevant. During the Kosovo crisis, it was quite clear that the disproportionate distribution of resources in the countries was a problem. Europe must increase its capacity to resolve conflicts on its own doorstep. That is why the initiative taken in Washington at the NATO Summit on the ESDI is a good and proper initiative. If it becomes the new pillar within the EU, it will be a challenge for non-EU NATO countries, including Norway. The risk of marginalisation for Norway is absolute. I don't think membership itself will be a solution. However, it will be a challenge for Norway not to be marginalised. That's why the most important thing we can do is look like an external resource. In this context, the establishment of the intervention force is an important factor. The intervention force also has an impact on us in the work on stability and international peace, in the fight for human rights and in the enforcement of the objectives and principles of the UN Charter. An effort force requires access to personnel. It has been a challenge to provide enough personnel for the operations we have already participated in and participate in. Therefore, the incentive package that the message describes is important to have in place and follow up. The Minister of Defence will probably be able to explain the situation about this right now. Another thing that will create a greater predictability for the response force is the power generation model described in the Communication, that during the last three months of the service period, one should be transferred to co-treatment in a department before going directly into a possible ongoing operation. Then you are in the Army's intervention force mainly out for six months – and I stress mainly – then you have 12 months of standby before six months of field service again. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party believe that you can be out longer, but for us in the Christian People's Party, the experience that has been gained after UNIFIL in the so-called UNIFIL study on the risk of aftereffects for any of the personnel has been enough to call for a warning, and we are not willing to take chances in this area. In our opinion and in the opinion of the majority, this is a model that will ensure both increased responsiveness and considerable stamina within the same framework. When the message was submitted, there were some figures that were not specified, for various reasons. The difference may seem large, 1 103 million. kr against the 520 mill message. kr. Additional letters to the Presidency of the United Kingdom on 25 February 2000 explain the source of the increase in expenditure. I just want to stress that there has been no unforeseen expenses. All that is now numerically fixed is referred to in the notification as uncertainty. Something is in operation, due to negotiations, for example: The recommended three-month bonus for first-time service providers who agree to participate in the new strength generation system, the need for more contracted personnel in the Air Force and emergency services on common elements, and something comes under investment, due to experience with our KFOR contribution, where we include. further need to be met, inter alia: armor of the army's reaction strength. These economic consequences were highlighted and quantified by Minister of Defence Løwer during the hearing in the Committee. They were sent, at the Committee's request, a formal letter to the Presidency with the same numbering. A unanimous committee also asks the Government to come back with a proposal for a referral for a professional order, based on the Danish scheme and its experience. To me, there are two arguments that are heavy in this context. First, it's a pretty unsustainable situation for a woman to come home to man and child and say: I want to go out on a risky mission – or for a man, for that matter. We should be able to lift that off of the individual's shoulders. The other thing is that the staff should not be insecure about the Government, which sends them out in consultation with the Storting, takes full responsibility. We know that 55,000 Norwegians have been involved in international peace operations since 1947. We are now planning to have a total strength pool, as a result of the message, of 3,500, with a maximum of 1500 out there at the same time. We know that these women and men who are there now and will be there in the future are there to make an effort for Norway, for peace, for human rights, for stability. Our contribution is to count on today. And our contribution will be with this message to count on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e314	As has been seen in previous contributions to this debate, there is a broad political consensus on the adaptation of defence to participation in international operations. Today's setting is unanimous at most points and is a connection to St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99, promoted by the Bondevik Government on 4 June 1999. Following the change of government, the government has informed Stoltenberg that the notification is being maintained. Norway has made very significant contributions — and relatively more than most other countries — by participating in international peace operations since the first UN operation was launched in 1947. More than 55,000 Nordics have participated in such operations, and in recent years, some 1,500 staff have been out of work at any time. Compared to most other countries, this is a strong participation, taking into account the size of the country. Direct comparisons of the contribution of different countries to international operations are difficult, among other things. due to the participation of countries in different types of operations. But if, for example, The EU had to participate at the same level as Norway in relation to its population, the contribution of the EU countries had to be almost fivefold. For the current year, the costs of Norway’s participation in international operations seem to be worth more than DKK 2.1 billion. As you know, Stortinget has provided that such expenditure is to be covered outside the defence framework. At a time of great pressure on public spending on the state budget, this is a major challenge. Much indicates that there will be a need for a significant change in defence in the future. Operating costs must be gradually reduced in order to allow for the necessary investment to be made if the defence is to fulfil its role in the technological society of the future. Nevertheless, there is broad political agreement to maintain three fundamental pillars of our defence concept, namely the general duty of protection, the total defence and a nationally balanced defence. In addition, we must fulfil our international obligations. Our future defence concept should be subject to a broad and thorough discussion in connection with the submission of the Great Britain of the next long-term defence report in spring 2001. It is important to maintain the necessary flexibility during the process of conversion of defence and not to over-binding too strongly to specific solutions. It should also apply to our international commitment. Of course, it is still desirable and necessary for Norway to be able to provide significant military forces for use in international operations. At the same time, it is in Norway's interest to build up under the reciprocity of the collective assistance obligation within NATO. Norway is dependent on the assistance of our allies in NATO in a possible crisis situation. That is why we must also take our share of responsibility in international operations. We must be prepared to participate in any regionally influenced, so-called Article 5 operations, which relate to the collective defence of our allies, even if the operation in question does not directly affect Norway. In addition, it may be appropriate for Norway to participate in other operations under the auspices of NATO, the VEU or the OSCE. We have seen that there are increasing demands for our participation in international operations. This applies, for example: the response time, training and equipment and the ability to interact with the quotas of other countries. It is important that Norway be able to meet the demands and expectations of us in international operations as soon as possible. An important contribution in this respect is the establishment of a Defence Force’s response to international operations, as recommended in the Storing Communication. The intervention force shall consist of robust and flexible units from all arms — Army, Naval and Air Force — and more specialised units within, inter alia. intelligence, logistics and strategic mobility. The Committee endorses the recommendation to establish an effort force for international operations as referred to. A fundamental principle is that the intervention force should be set up as far as possible within a coherent home structure, so that it should be integrated into our national defence. The strength shall be fully part of the ordinary defence structure. It shall also be possible to register it in all relevant international power registers. It is my belief that the establishment of a Defence Force for international operations will also be positive for our national defence. It will strengthen the credibility of defence in Norway and also the credibility of Norway internationally. Once that response force is established, it is inappropriate to maintain the division into a NATO reaction force and a UN response force. This should lapse, as proposed in the Communication, while allowing the intervention force to be used for any operation where the Government, in consultation with the Stortinget, considers that Norway should participate. Experience has shown that Norway has not always been able to meet its commitments to participate in international operations. We have had problems with short notice to be able to set up with the intended forces for such operations. This may, of course, be due to several factors, but some of the explanation is that it may be difficult to obtain a sufficient number of voluntary teams for such operations at a time of strong labour market pressure and high labour demand in Norway. In order to ensure that the response force is kept operational at all times, and that we are thus able to meet our international commitments in the future, action is needed. Such measures to ensure the recruitment of the intervention force are mentioned in the communication. It is necessary to have predictability of a sufficient quality and quantity of human resources. The Communication — in particular Chapters 4 and 5 — provides a thorough assessment of the challenges facing them and gives some recommendations on how to address them. I can, like the rest of the committee, give my consent to the arrangement. International operations can face major challenges. One year ago, the Kosovo crisis led Norway, for the first time since World War II, to a direct involvement in a war. This, understandably, created considerable debate. For the Centre Party, it is essential that international operations, such as: Interventions against humanitarian disasters and threats to peace and security are governed by international law. In my opinion, it had the Kosovo operation, in which I therefore felt it was right for Norway to participate. But others have a different view of this. In one of the latest editions of the American Journal of International Law, attempts have been made to think further on the basis of international law for military interventions. Reference is made to the fact that state practices are of very central importance in the development and definition of international law. From this point of view, a review has been carried out of what happened in the Kosovo case and looked at whether it is possible to draw up some guidelines that could help the next time the world had to be confronted with such a situation as in Kosovo. The alternative may not be to refrain from intervening, but to intervene in such a way that most countries will find the intervention to comply with international law. First of all, the conditions set for a legitimate intervention are that there must be serious violations of international law. The UN Charter provides a positive basis for threats to peace and security. Furthermore, the intervention must be carried out by a collective of countries and not only by one country. The intervention shall only pursue humanitarian objectives and not targets of particular political interest for any of the States of intervention. The intervention shall be continuously monitored by the Security Council. In retrospect, the Security Council has approved the NATO action by accepting the political solution to the Kosovo crisis committed by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on 2 June 1999. This was done by the Security Council in Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1999. It must continue to be the case that an intervention is to be applied for in an authorisation by the Security Council. On the other hand, there is a lot of experience that this can be difficult to obtain. In addition, knowing that the reasons for vetoing an intervention at times are based on subversive motives, this suggests that international law needs to be sought to find arrangements to get around this obstacle. I am pleased that it can now be assumed that the practices established in the context of the crisis management in Kosovo can form such a basis of international law for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e352	I get an intense need to say something about the perspective of the debate before I go into the individual points that this matter contains. Whatever the need to deploy forces, whether peacekeeping or peace-building forces, in a conflict, it's too late or close to being too late. Most crises, conflicts and wars suffer from a lack of interest on the part of the world community until armed conflicts occur. That is the biggest mistake made in Kosovo. For ten years everyone in Europe who wanted to know knew that there were apartheid-like conditions in Kosovo, and that the Kosovar Albanians fought peacefully – and nobody cared. Only when the situation was put to the fore, when the great attacks and threats to human life started, was it possible to get the rest of Europe and the world community's attention. It is very important that one has that perspective in this debate too, because the typical wars after the end of the Cold War are civil-like warriors, i.e. wars within the framework of the nation-state, wars carried out with deranged, old and immature weapons, with the characteristic that there are religious or ethnic conflicts on the surface, but how often power struggles of more strategic interest lie below. This means that the main focus of the world society must be on this before coming to these operations we are discussing today. In the opinion of the SV, this case should have been postponed after the completion of the three selections that now assess the defence effort, and it is simply because it intervenes in how to organise its own defence, and in what way Norway should be able to contribute to international action. We think the order is wrong. But for SV, it is important to say that we want to contribute to the international peace-keeping or peace-building actions, and we perceive that this matter is preparing the Stortinget for more sharp action in the future than it has been in the past. The crucial thing for SV is what kind of mandate this type of action should have, and it really says the matter too little about. Our premise is to have a mandate from the United Nations or the OSCE, and we do not think it is clear enough in the communication. We are also concerned about NATO's new strategic concept, which we do not yet know exactly what to do in practice, but we know that some interests want NATO as a kind of world police force to act on its own initiative. It is a very dangerous development for world peace if NATO is allowed to do so on its own without backing either in the Declaration of Human Rights, in international law or with the UN mandate. In the opinion of the SV, a premiss in this case should have been discussed in more detail, and it is about what Norway is going to contribute to. To make a broad contribution, or to make Norwegian defence special in some areas, and therefore to make a more specialised contribution. In SV we see that there are good reasons to discuss whether Norway’s role should be more specialised. Maybe we're better at engineering than many other countries are, and have a competence where the world community could use better than if we contribute a broader kind of effort. With these words SV provides support for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e369	As a NATO alliance country, it is important that we in Norway continue the commitment we have, and have had for many years, in international operations. If we're going to expect help if we're going to need it, we're going to have to show our solidarity to help others whenever we need it. The message provides good structures in place and predictability to all parties involved, both at home and abroad. When the conflicts are a fact, it is vital that we and the world community can respond quickly to requests for help. Rapid response time is important to bring conflict under control and to return as quickly as possible to a normal society. But endurance is also very important, because stability is not easy to achieve or maintain by increasing upward and downwards, or for the sake of changing the responsible nations. We see that conflicts are not solved quickly and easily – they are, however, difficult, demanding challenges and often long-term conditions. Reconstruction often takes a long time, and it is vital that the personnel we send out on international missions are well equipped for the demanding job they are going to do. Therefore, the selection of the right men and women is very important. They must have good human qualities, have a well-developed ethical sense, have good cooperation skills, show openness and respect for the traditions of a foreign country, and for the country's culture, environment, history and peculiarity. They must be able to show compassion and experience, but also to be action-oriented and improvise good solutions theoretical, practical and social when situations demand creativity. When situations require a cold head and a calm but correct and quick behaviour, it is important to have good initial and good military education. To achieve this, they must receive good military training at home; they must be well trained and well trained as a quota so that they know each other and can rely on each other’s skills in difficult situations. Reaction patterns have to be tricked in, so some reactions come completely automatically when needed. Good preparations at home are a necessity for success. This is demanding, because it is not always easy to predict what meets them in the individual conflict. It must necessarily take some time to learn all the skills they need before they can be sent out. These skills must also be maintained. They shall be able to meet unknown challenges and be persevering in situations that may be difficult. Housing conditions can be very different, and for us other normal facilities are completely different or do not exist. Leisure is not an uncomplicated leisure time. It is important that their leisure time provides relaxation opportunities and builds on good companionship and a good social environment. The security of the personnel we have out there at all times is also very important. Those who leave here are out, and the family at home must feel confident that even if conditions are difficult, security is put in the high seat. But you can never be sure of any relationship, whether you're at home or out. However, it is particularly important that when an accident of a large or small nature occurs first, those affected must be so sure that they do not lose sight of the accident occurring outside Norway’s borders. Wherever you are at work at home or outside, medical treatment and compensation in the event of accidents must be a matter of course. Here I will be allowed to refer to a unanimous committee comment in the setting: «The Committee considers it important to stress that staff serving in international operations are entitled to adequate insurance and compensation schemes.» Being on a mission in international service gives those who are there, many life experiences, very good learning and very good professional knowledge as the Defense should know to benefit from the defense of our own country. These qualities also give each individual, but also society in general, a good ballast. It should be economically viable to take a period of peace-building or peace-keeping operations. At least it must not be that they lose money or are punished over the tax bill by making such an effort. It may be a stressful service to which we send out our forces. Therefore, in Norway, we need to be prepared to provide the assistance needed at both the physical and the mental level after return, if necessary in retrospect. It must not be that when they have done a job outside, we forget them if they have problems afterwards. But it's not just the ones that are actually out, we have to remember in this context. Almost everyone has a close family, whether they're parents, siblings, spouses, cohabitants or children. It is very important that these are properly cared for, and that they receive good enough and correct information early and persistent. But it is also important that they feel confident that their son or daughter, husband or wife is well and safe, and that they are given the opportunity to get in touch and to make sure of the circumstances, and follow through on what the service is all about. There I believe that the information provided here by the Naval Defence Minister should be a good example of how this work can be done in a good way. There, the relatives receive detailed information and status reports on where they are, what they are doing, what they are going to do and what they have done. It's also important for those who are left at home, that when they need help for small and big things and they don't have close family nearby, they have to have some people and places to turn to to get the help they need without feeling that they're begging. There should be some networks here at home in this context. All I've been talking about here costs a lot of money: the selection, the exercise, real pay, insurance schemes, security and information. But no matter how expensive peace is, it's much cheaper than the cheapest war. It pays off in the long run for all parties to take care of and maintain peace. And if there's something we've learned in the last ten years, it's that peace is not a matter of course that's present entirely by itself. Peace must be relegated and taken care of. That's why it's so important to work against, among other things. Racist attitudes. We've seen cruel wars among neighbors also here in Europe, some of us didn't think it would be possible again, but it turned out to be completely possible even today, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e396	In the future, new demands will be made on Norwegian military personnel. The starting point is that our allies in NATO are expecting Norway to deal with emergency situations on foreign land. Under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, Norway shall be willing to stand in the defence of another NATO country. Non-Article 5 operations, operations outside the core of the alliance, are likely to be given increasing weight in NATO in the years ahead. This is mentioned in the statement by the Defence Committee on the adaptation of the Norwegian Defence Agency to participation in international operations. As part of this adaptation, there can be no doubt that the objective must be that Norway will be able to fulfil commitments already made in this area as soon as possible and gradually expands and strengthens Norway’s capacity to participate in international military operations during the coming period. To underline the significance of this, the Progress Party and the Right have included this in the setting as a separate note. The latest progress report from the 2000 Defence Study, the Chief of Defense’s investigation into the future tasks of the Defence Agency, concludes that the protection obligation should be differentiated much more than it is today. Among other things, the contentious part of the custodians will become more professionalised. According to our obligations, a lot is pointing towards the fact that this is a proper way of thinking. But to do this, relationships need to be made right. Conditions such as pay and insurance arrangements must now be settled. This has been the focus of all defence organisations at the hearings of the Committee. Without a doubt, this will be very expensive, but if Norway is to be able to cope with international operations in the future, this must be an absolute requirement and a necessity. One thing, however, is the human resources and conditions, a completely different and also absolutely crucial factor is the material resources. There can be no doubt whatsoever that this must be in order, not least for the sake of the lives and health of our soldiers. Of course, that will also be a requirement and a matter of course with the eyes of our allies. Everything else will help Norway to be seen as a B-nation in the military. Norway’s defences have been built up throughout the 1990s. Despite the protests and opposition of the Party of Advancement and the Right, we have witnessed the persistent efforts of the Labour Party governments – and last but not least the so-called central government – to reduce the defence budgets. The previous government contributed greatly to uncertainty and a lack of willingness to invest fully necessary materially. The sitting government, through its somewhat confusing treatment of frigate purchases, has helped to spread a new uncertainty that has surprised many. The reduction of Norwegian defence and the lack of acquisition of new material throughout the post-war period have put us as a nation in the situation that the need for new military material is both urgent and necessary if it is the will for us to have a military defence. I expect the government to see the seriousness of the situation, not least, as mentioned, in the interests of the security and expectations of our personnel who are going to participate in demanding foreign operations. This must be, to the most extent, a prerequisite for meeting our adaptation of defence to participation in international operations. In other words, this means a powerful upgrading of our material, simply a ship's roof. The fact that we have a strong need for new frigates, new fighter aircraft and new equipment for the Army due to an ever-renewal has been agreed by the majority in Stortinget. The fact that disquieting views on this are now being expressed by the Government and some representatives is very worrying. However, if we are to be a nation to participate in international operations, as the majority of the Great Britain believes, we must take all the consequences that this entails. This is for the safety and reputation of the nation, and not least for the safety and the ability of our personnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e413	Adequate quality, quantity and predictability of human resources are an absolute prerequisite for the defence to contribute to international military operations. Service in international peace operations is based on a fundamental principle of volunteering. The Workers' Party agrees that the principle of volunteering is a fundamental principle in relation to this type of operation, but wishes to look into the current system that enables the personnel employed in the Defence Department to refrain from performing tasks that are an integral part of the Defence Agency's ongoing tasks and that Norway has committed itself by means of international agreements. The working party wishes to assess this scheme on a later occasion. As the main principle of voluntary service in international operations, it will, of course, sometimes be difficult to have access to qualitative and quantitative personnel, especially at times when the labour market is tight, which is now, and the defence has to compete with the rest of the labour market. Therefore, terms and conditions of employment and other incentives will be of great importance for Norway to be able to comply with the international agreements to which we have committed ourselves. The total financial compensation will, of course, be a central instrument for increasing the recruitment of personnel for this type of operation. However, in addition to the financial basis, the communication points to five key assumptions as to the incentive structure to be fulfilled if the defence is to ensure sufficient quality of the personnel: firstly, the service must be appropriate; secondly, insurance and pay and working conditions must be proportionate to the workload and risk; thirdly, participation in international peace operations must provide significant career value – both inside and outside the defence; fourthly, potential applicants must be well informed as to the possibilities of participating in international peace operations; and fifthly, the training and follow-up procedures must be satisfactory. All of these points are elaborated in the message. Of these five points, I would like to highlight in particular the challenges we face on the information page. It is very important that information on service in international peace operations reaches society in general, potential applicants and their relatives. The values of personnel involved in international operations and the real competences they have acquired during the service must be visible. The real competence acquired by the service providers must be made particularly known to the business community, so that those who have worked in international operations are attractive on the labour market when they return after the end of service. It is therefore gratifying to note that, in cooperation with the NHO and employees’ organisations, an awareness campaign aimed at business leaders and other labour seekers will be initiated, precisely to make the resources and competences of personnel involved in this type of operation visible. Finally, I would like to point out what may be the main factor in recruiting personnel for international operations. In my opinion, it is crucial and essential that the personnel sent out by Norway in this type of operation can be confident that their personal security is as high as possible. Of course, being sent out in a peacekeeping operation can never be a 100 pst. safe undertakings, but a guarantee should be provided that responsible, granting authorities and military management have done what is possible to secure personnel and equipment. If you are sure of this, the motivation of the individual soldier and of the individual military unit will also increase. This is also likely to play a positive role in terms of fighting capability, while at the same time being an important contribution to ensuring adequate quality, quantity and predictability of the human resources available to the defence's international military operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e425	By making available an input strength for international operations, as is now proposed in St.meld. No 38 for 1998-1999, Norway fulfils its NATO obligations in this area. This has been important to underline for a Joint Defence Committee. At the same time, it also confirms Norway’s willingness to take an active part in peace-building and peace-keeping efforts. Through such participation, Norway strengthens its security policy position, while contributing to international peace and stability, increasing respect for human rights and the enforcement of the objectives and principles of the UN Charter. It is NATO that is the very bearer of Norwegian security policy. At a time when cooperation in defence and security policy is at stake, Norway must contribute to ensuring that NATO remains a central, dynamic and credible player in this important work. Solidarity within the alliance, willingness to take responsibility and also to contribute materially and forcefully to peace operations are important prerequisites for success. Norway, through its associated membership of the WEU, is guaranteed the right to full participation in all VEU-led operations. Thus, in any VEU operation that makes use of borrowed NATO resources, Norway and other associated members are even stronger by virtue of their NATO membership. The development of the European Security and Defence Cooperation (ESDP) within NATO means strengthening Europe’s ability to act effectively at its own door in crisis situations where it is not natural for NATO as an organisation to engage directly. Such increased European action and military capability must be welcomed by Norway. However, it is of great importance that neither the transatlantic relationship nor the relationship with partners outside NATO is otherwise damaged in this process. If the WEU as its own organisation is eventually shut down and tasks continue within the EU, as it is now moving in the direction, we should continue to seek the best possible association with these processes, both through political influence and through the continued provision of strengths in the European dimension of Western defence cooperation. Where NATO resources are involved, of course, we must maintain our demand for full involvement both in the preparatory work and in the decision-making process itself. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's clarification that NATO's commitment to crisis management must remain anchored in international law. Norway has and must continue to have a strong commitment to an international order based on clear legal rules. A prerequisite for Norwegian participation in peace-building operations must therefore be that all use of power is sought for its anchor in international law. This may, as you know, be done by consent of the parties, by the right to self-defence pursuant to Article 51 of the United Nations Charter or by the mandate of the Security Council pursuant to Chapter VII or Chapter VIII of the Charter. With a total effort force for international operations of 3 500 people, where up to 1500 may be outsourced at the same time, Norway’s contribution will constitute an important resource in the alliance. In this context, I think it is in my interest to express both a thank you and a recognition to the Norwegian personnel who have made such an important and significant effort in these forces in recent times. Compared to the population, Norway has been a significant contributor to international peace operations in recent years. Norway is counting on Western defence and security cooperation, both in a North Atlantic, European and Nordic context. With the establishment of the Defence Force for International Operations, as we are dealing with it here, this impression will be further strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e438	It's a lot to enjoy today's discussion. I will begin with the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who asked: what is the point of changing a government when the government repeats the old government's political stance and policy? I take it as a careful compliment towards the fact that the representative is as pleased with me as with the Council of State runners, at least in this area, and this is a friendly Easter greeting for a busy time. Secondly, I would say that I basically share the starting point of the representative Kristin Halvorsen, just as the representative Anne Helen Rui did. We have one strong ally on the other side of the Atlantic, President Clinton, who has said this: the most expensive peace is always cheaper than the cheapest war. There's a lot of people who don't think through. And it goes without saying that conflict prevention and peace mediation, peacekeeping activities at the diplomatic level, are always cheaper efforts than getting into a situation where one has to deploy military forces. This is part of Norway’s wide-ranging security policy, and therefore there is also a close link between foreign policy, security policy and defence policy. That perspective will certainly be based on this government, even though it is not isolated from the big news. Then I agree with the case rapporteur that we are in a new era in which we have to settle our bribery in relation to the actual needs that apply. It's obviously like St.meld. No 38, but also today's attitude, is a reflection that we are now taking the consequences of the security policy developments of its own years. In this way, the message is a consciously political craftsmanship. Against this background, this approach is very satisfactory because it provides clear guidance on the level of ambition, the organisation of the defence’s new strength of effort and a timetable for the deployment of the force. So it has been said by some, partly Right, partly the Advance Party, and on completely different premises of SV, that one has some reservations, perhaps even in the phase-in of the wholesale processing, as the representative of SV said in this case. I assume that what we are doing now in connection with the establishment of the Defence Force is something we have to do anyway. There is something we need to do in any case to adapt Norway to a new international reality. And so this is as structurally independent as His Majesty the King's Guard and the boundary garrison in Varanger, to take a simple and a little banal comparison. We have to do this anyway because we're going to contribute to a credible contribution within international force registers. And of course, they have the right to think that this in many ways is leading the future on the use of the defence resources. Yes, and these are the most conscious leaders, both from the previous government, I believe, and at least from the sitting government. It is beyond doubt that we, as a nation, on which the representative of Restad was also involved, have been involved for a number of years with military forces to actively contribute to preventing and resolving international crises and conflicts. But at the same time – and we still have to – we have placed great emphasis on stability in our neighbourhoods and on maintaining a credible national defence. Pursuing these two objectives at the same time is obviously resource-intensive. However, today’s security policy situation — and we must not forget this — makes it possible to reconcile these objectives by establishing a set of forces for use abroad, which are also a central element of national defence. In this way, both the main pillars of the defense's business, and our contribution to the NATO allies, are strengthened, because we have a dual use of these forces both at home and outside. A central feature of what we've done in the past, and for which there's reason to be proud, is that we've worked up the ability to long-term participation outside the military. But it has proved necessary, in the light of a new international reality, to strengthen our ability to respond more quickly and within a wider range of crisis situations compared to what was the situation some decades ago. So this has to be combined with our «old» ability to quantitative and qualitative exposure over time. This in itself is a demanding combination, but the effort force is just adding up to it. But if we're going to get it done, we need forces that are identified and prepared in advance, so we don't have to start from the mornings every time a need arises. This is, as you know, the basis of the message we have for treatment and today’s setting. I am delighted to note that the majority of the Committee agrees that the intervention force is set up according to the guidelines and according to the plan described in the Communication. The same majority have also followed the Government’s advice on the need for a comprehensive package of recruitment, including the notification’s proposals for strengthened incentives and the recruitment model for the Army. Now, with a positive interest, I noticed that the committee's leader toned down what had to be the contradictions between majority and minority. I see that as a positive thing. But when I'm most satisfied with the majority, it's because the majority's remarks provide the necessary political pressure and the necessary political guidelines for the establishment and establishment of the force. But it does not mean – with the address of both the Advance Party and the Right – that we should be blind to needs arising along the way and the need for adjustments that may arise along the way. But that is not to be linked to the inherent desire of the Right and the Advance Party to always have better budgets than the previous government parties and the current government party. We believe that this force should defend its place within the defence framework of significant size we have, however, and then, of course, we should grant the Right and the Advance Party the right to attach it politically to having a slightly higher level of ambition, for the size and size of the budgets. But I'm recording again, the difference may not be so great when it comes to the world of reality. I attach great importance to the fact that we now, with both the message and the setting, can get a sufficient recruitment, so that we can get the strength in place according to the assumption. We must have a strength and a staff recruited in relation to the pressures of such a service, it must be competitive in relation to service at home and in society at large, and the Committee therefore supports that principle and gives its support to important instruments in such a context as for example. possibility of accumulation of outtime for tax purposes. They mention other conditions in accordance with the message, strengthening them a part. I also record the strong support of the Committee for a new order mechanism. And I will make sure, in accordance with the setting of course, to make a more detailed assessment of that question and come back to Stortinget as soon as possible. I basically share the views expressed by the case-rapporteur, Mr. Ingvald Godal here, but it goes without saying that we should also carry out an appropriate process of dialogue with the command organisations and others. As important as the right to order — yes, many would say even more important — the Committee's position on the importance of various human resources policies, such as the use of drugs, is, of course, what it says in its position. satisfactory insurance and compensation schemes and the maintenance of the safety of both personnel and their dependants during and after their service. These are key instruments in such a context if we are going to go into everything that a right of appeal obviously implies. With regard to the economic impact of the notification, I take note of the comments, and of course I agree that we need to make a strong effort to continue the principle of additional financing of operational costs, and that sometimes there may be a difficult borderline between what is operational and what is more sustainable investment. Finally, a brief comment on our level and the level of the European Union. What's in the setting is pretty good, but the comparable numbers are actually that we're aiming to have around 1,500 plus/minus out there at all times. The EU has ambitions to reach 60,000. But behind this is a ‘power pool’, a resource well, which, for us, is 3,500 and is not described for the EU, but is probably about 200,000. And so the difference is not quite so dramatic, even though I agree with Mr Restad that we should hit our chests, even in the European context, when we have a basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e471	The Minister of Defence also did in many ways to reduce the possible contradictions that may lie there, but the visible ones in the Committee's position are now there. I understood that the simple and easily understandable fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to spend a little more money on the Defense than the government that is sitting there and the government that has resigned has the desire to do is now there. But then it becomes a little strange that there are just these two parties that say: Be careful with the economy in this! In fact, when the committee was notified for consideration, there was a price tag with it. When the committee had finished its work, they had asked for answers to their questions, and the setting was to be set, so the price had almost tripled during that time. It tells us that it might make sense to be careful and not phase this in full width and full gravity, because it can have unintended consequences. I would like to ask the Minister if he believes that all basic investments and operating costs are now under control, that it is now well established, and that that is the amount that has now been identified, which is the framework for this. If the answer is yes, it's okay. Should the answer be something else, it reinforces the argument of the Right Party and the Advance Party. The Committee has underlined in its recommendation that ‘the service pattern and contractual conditions need to be established in a timely manner and assessed and adjusted continuously according to their needs and experience’. It opens up at my discretion to have a flexible attitude towards the contract regime, based not least on the need to bet on soldiers with 12 months of education. Does the Minister agree with the Committee's assessment? And does the Minister agree that funding will be outside the framework for deployment and deployment costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e484	The Committee unanimously stresses the importance of realistic budgeting and points out that there is too much gap between the original content of the notification and the adjustments made through the letter of the former Minister of Defence. It's obvious that we have an inherent inertia in the planning process in the Defense in general that makes you come back from time to time. It has to end, to say it short and simple. Sometimes it is easier said than done, because there are large, comprehensive and complex issues to be calculated, but the budgeting procedures in the defence in general – both in terms of plans and annual budgets – need to be improved. I know that from my own experience over a few years in the defense committee, and I think a unanimous committee understands what I'm talking about here. It is absolutely essential that the Department and the Defence Command are strengthened in these areas, so that we do not get into a situation where there is still a need to report both on the one hand and on the other on the other. But I say again that it's easier said than done, because sometimes it happens to change the objective conditions that it's not always as easy to predict. But in this there is, I feel, a positive receipt of what is the committee leader's need and basic point of view. With regard to the financial arrangements within and outside the framework, I share the opinions expressed by the Committee in the vote and repeated here by the chairman of the Committee. There shall be additional funding and operational costs. However, in the case of equipment related to each operation, where this equipment has a multi-use value and can be used over time, there is a demarcation problem, to which the committee leader is fully aware, and there will be a borderline for which the Department and the Defence Overcommand will be responsible over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e493	Of course, I agree that the best thing to do is to prevent, but what we are discussing here today is what we must have in those cases where the prevention did not lead. The main problem, as it is today, is to get people to be in place at the right time. I am pleased with what the Council of State said that one will return with an order as soon as possible, but we also require a contractual regime that works for those who will never be able to order, namely those under protection. It becomes very important to get it in place, because as it is today, there is almost a national shame, so I want to ask the council to confirm that he wants to clean it up. We've spent eight years and we haven't got anything that works yet, now it's time for that to happen. The other thing I could like to mention is this with appreciation for those who have been out doing a job. We're very poor in this country. Other countries honor those who have made an effort, in a way that is visible: with events, with medals, and those who have made an effort, appreciate this. One can only look at those who have been out on the first-time service in our country; they get the protective medal, and they ask him with respect at appropriate conditions. I don't think it costs much to do it. I have seen that command agencies demand that we also have a system of support and arrangements for those who have been out there, and for families in such a context. Finally, I would like to mention a little bit about the transatlantic balance. There are very clear things about it in the message, and a consensual committee ends up about it. At party speeches, it's more often every other day around Europe, but in fact, it's very little behind. When we look at the enormous difference in efforts in the United States and Europe, when we look at social conditions in the United States, I understand very well when they say that Europeans must take a greater part. I want to ask the State Council to confirm that there will also be more than words in festivities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e504	I see the transatlantic relations as the pillar of our security policy relations, not only in the old sense of the commitment to collective defence of NATO's territory, but also in the new sense. The new NATO with the United States in a central role has been entirely epoch-making in breaking down contrasts across the old block boundaries. Also in that context, transatlantic relations are something more than speaking; it's a carrier. The development of a European strengthened capacity in this area is no alternative to the transatlantic; it is a supplement based on a desire for Europe to take greater responsibility for its own backyard, its own continent and its own continent. There's nothing unAmerican about it. It's taking responsibility for the certainty that two world wars have not started on the American continent, but in Europe. So we have to be able to have these two thoughts in our head at the same time. I agree that we need to look at the recognition procedures – whether or not one can use such a concept – so that we ensure that those who really sacrifice something in the context that the representative Godal addresses feel that they are given such recognition. I know there's different input and opinions about it. It hasn't been as high a priority as the frigates in these days, but I see absolutely the need for it, without me wanting to marry new mechanisms right now. Of course, the most important thing is that a human being is given the necessary views when, unfortunately, there is a need. I can confirm that the Department has full pressure to look at the issues relating to contractual relationships for all types of military personnel. Such arrangements must be in place to motivate and achieve it, but I think the representative will be pleased that we already see the fruits of an active strategy when it comes to quota III in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e513	What we are discussing here today is, above all, whether Norway should be able to participate in international operations and how, not what operations or what kind of mandate operations should be. It is likely to have to involve much greater assessments and perhaps more conflict than today's debate has been. I should like to have had some assessments from the Minister of Defence about NATO's new strategic concept and the development of NATO towards a NATO that is taking its own path, without safeguarding itself in international law or in human rights, i.e. without the UN mandate and the OSCE mandate, and what kind of line the Minister of Defence wants to follow in relation to the discussion that is now taking place in NATO about what this new concept is actually going to mean. The second question concerns money. I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party are concerned. But on me, the debate about the economy in the defense now seems quite strange if it's not that we should be able to finance operations where Norwegian forces can actually make an effort for peace around the world if the prerequisites are present, when the defence investments made amount to billions of dollars and seize so many resources that new material must be in storage because you don't have the opportunity to use it. Why in the world is it not possible to get the Defense to spend the money on what is most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e522	I understand the representative Halvorsen's need to discuss the important issues, but it is therefore beyond what is the purpose of today's announcement and suspension, namely to create a strength that can be at the disposal of government and collapse when government and big business think it is necessary. The latter is in itself a discussion that is of little use in such a context, where neither requests nor current situations are particularly new for the Storing now. But I want to sign out cards by saying: I fully share what is both in the message and in the setting when it comes to the need for the basis of international law for the use of such forces. It's well worded both places. I want to say, as a receipt, that I don't imagine – and I don't think any other defence ministers or foreign ministers in NATO do it – NATO as a world police force running around and looking after the world every time others don't do their job. Of course, it is the UN that is the mandated organisation, or it is regional security policy organisations such as the OSCE in Europe that are in charge. When a NATO strategic concept discusses the expanded role of NATO, it has been precisely to provide a basis for NATO to do a job in Bosnia with a UN mandate, but also a job in Kosovo, where agreement on a UN mandate failed. I'm glad to meet someone in NATO who's happy about it. The most important thing, therefore, is to ensure that we get a new discussion about a better basis for international humanitarian action. If I'm worried about something in the future, it's not that NATO is going to run around the world to play policeman, because that's not for money, personnel, or political will. What I'm afraid of is that no one does enough when there's really a need to do something. That should worry us all a lot more than what might be expressed daily.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e531	When I now asked for the word in reply, it was to give the Minister the opportunity to answer that question he unfortunately did not have time to answer in the first row. This was essentially the need for flexibility. So we see that it's like, if you're going to make this go over time, that contractual relationships have to involve some flexibility, and you have to be in the forefront. So we agree on that. But then it's the service pattern, which will basically have to be based on those who have 12 months of service, if you're going to slave to this model. But it's also so that there might be a number of others that can also play a role in this. It may well be that there will be recruitment problems, and then my question is in relation to an overall comitology, which the majority of the committee obviously did not agree to comment on in particular, namely that the committee has stated that there is a need for some flexibility also in terms of service patterns: does the minister see, in line with an overall committee, that one may have to go into this without being so completely locked up in the mathematical model that lies there, just to solve the problems? That's the one. The second – and then I hope that the Council of State will respond to the first, and then time will show whether he gets what I am going to ask for now – is this long list that we have of forces that can be put at his disposal, which is a total of 3,500. It is that a number of these elements will not be decommissionable until a piece into the future. My question is, since the whole list is a thumbnail of the Norwegian defence of today: does the Council not see the need and the need to give certain priorities to some of these elements? Because you have, after all, the assumption that they should be able to go in 30 days, most of them. Then everything has to be in place, because it's just adaptation to the task you have time for in 30 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e540	I am pleased with the chance to respond to what was not answered. The answer is yes. I think what the whole committee writes – majority and minority are united here – makes sense. It goes without saying that when it comes to a pattern in the Communication that is supported by the majority of the Committee, it is the main pattern. We are happy that we have, so to speak, laid a framework for how this is going to happen. If Storting's attitude had only said something in the direction that this gets you back to or look at, we would not have had any steering signals that could be used for this process. But within such a framework, of course, there is a need to look at flexibility. There are certain types of operations, certain types of services, where it may be appropriate to have both a shorter period of time and, for that matter, a longer period of time. So I can fully confirm that. On the other issue, it goes without saying that the list that is there will be used to build up the strength itself. But neither has it been adopted by the Pope in Rome, even though the Storting has looked at it. Of course, we need to have flexibility in relation to it, evaluate the different strengths and phase-in elements, and we need to look at that in relation to the individual operation and what is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e553	It is my own stupidity when I ask two serious questions in a reply in two minutes and expect the Prime Minister to be able to answer both, and not just concentrate on one. But since I have the chance, I would like to address what is involved in the defence economy, in the hope that the Secretary of Defense will say something about how one can manage to set up such a priority that is actually the most important, and how in all the world it may be that, after the decision of the Storting, the defence now implements heavy investment projects in the multi-billion-dollar krone class, which bind funds for at least ten years ahead, but which are sevenths and ultimately cannot afford to use, and in which one has decided to invest before actually agreeing on how the defence should look for the future. At the same time, it may be that the economy can limit Norway’s participation in international operations, where our efforts are needed, and where it will be important and proper to prioritise expenditure. Then I would like to have some views on whether to contribute in general under the Norwegian flag, or whether it might have been more curious about Norway, which has special competence in some areas, primarily contributed to international operations where we have special competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e560	If I did not hear completely wrong, this question was asked to the Prime Minister, but I will nevertheless answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e565	It just says something about my ambitions on your behalf!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e572	As far as the last point is concerned, I agree that there is a point. That's what's going on right now. We go into a complex strength structure where Norway contributes with things that we are particularly competent to do. There is no doubt that Norwegian special forces, for example: has made — and makes — significant international efforts. They've become a niche for us. But we contribute, for example: in the British Brigade in Kosovo. Similarly, we can mention examples from other specialties in Defence. So one does not exclude the other in any way. But we have to be prepared to contribute where we are best, next to the other more general strength elements. In this way, I share the representative's starting point. With regard to current investments in the Defence, which are many and large, the representative clearly has a point. But there's nothing strange about this. Every country I know has a continuous review of planning processes and investment processes. All the defense ministers with their heads in place, and I'm saying that it also applies to all the defense leaders, will be very concerned that we should not invest in more than what we feel we can defend in two or three years' time. But it's sometimes a big challenge. I am fully aware of the problem itself, especially in a situation where finance ministers of all kinds are very concerned that we are going to save money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e583	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e588	I'm just going to allow myself to deal with a couple of things that I didn't have time to touch on in my first post. One of these things might be a little bit difficult to answer on the standing foot, but I'll try anyway. I am very familiar with the fact that the special agreement for the service of international peace operations expired on 31 December 1999 and, as far as I understand, this agreement is continuing in some understanding. But that's not how it can go on, because then we're going to be in the same sum that you've been for a long time. I have understood that, at least on the part of the organisations, there has been a desire to add this negotiation procedure to the Ministry of Labour and Administration. It may well be a way to go, but I believe that the last agreement was between the Ministry of Defence and the organizations. It could be good to know if it is such even after the government change that you tend to run negotiations under the AAD regime. From my political point of view, I would like to say that if negotiations were to be conducted with the FD, it would be much more reassuring, because at least in the Progress Party we feel that the Ministry of Defence is the most understanding of what needs to be included in such agreements, and that negotiations with the AAD, as I understand the previous government failed to do, is going wrong, although there have been certain relations between the former Minister of Defence and that department. It probably doesn't have to do anything very well either – what do I know? So my question is, does the Government now intend to negotiate rapidly through the FD, and in such a way that you do not interfere with the elements that serve abroad, whose main frequency of damage occurs through opening champagne bottles? I'm thinking about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here. Is it now possible to conduct negotiations in such a way as to bring together the elements to be associated with the operation of international forces? - That's one of them. Then it was the representative Steensnæs, who said that Norway is ‘counting’ in the defense. I must say that there is a very bad argument with the representative Steensnæs" position on the defence budgets. If it's the case that the Christian People's Party believes it's better to have a nice front, it's okay -- it might stick to it. But Steensneeze and Christian People's Party should remember that sometimes you do a complete turnaround, and then if you're somewhat thinned on your back, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e597	I agree, of course, with the chairman of the committee that the Ministry of Defence knows best. – The Minister of Administration has taken the initiative to review the procedures for the many special agreements we have, not only those that sort under the Defence in a strict sense, but under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, for that matter, other departments, and we get a clarification of that regime in the near future after a proposal from him. No matter how it ends at the formal level, I think it is crucial, as the former Minister of Defence is involved in the notification, and which is also reflected in the suspension, that the competence that must be there when a negotiator with the Defence Organisations on this, so to speak, must follow the negotiating delegation. It must be at the heart of the negotiating delegation. Here it is not only the Ministry of Defence, but also the Defence Command who possesses that competence, and it is explained in detail in the communication on the specific circumstances of this area. So we have to make sure that there is when a new regime is going to be negotiated on the special agreement and the related elements that now have to be put in place. Because it's true that we're in an interregnum, where the central thing now is to get in line with what has been notified both in the notice, as far as I remember, and also through public statements from the ministry and others at earlier times. So this is a very central element in the ministry's work on the follow-up of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e602	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e616	It is a unanimous opinion of the Committee on this matter from the Ombudsman’s defence department. However, let me just briefly comment on some of the things the committee has said. We record that the Ombudsman’s opinion warns against the development of the duty of protection towards the burden of inequality. The Committee shares such concerns, but will point out that these are issues that will be addressed by both the Defence Study 2000 and the government-appointed range of defence policy, and will therefore await the next long-term notification and its examination by the Committee. The Committee has also noted that the downward trend in the number of penalties may be broken, but since the figures are not clear, we will also await the situation at this point before we possibly go into this matter more closely. We know that there is a trend towards increasing use of drugs in society in general, and it will require continued efforts by our military departments. In this context, like the Ombudsman, the Committee has found it worth commenting on the fact that the Narkosør Group has been without dog eviction for nine of the months of the year. The Committee would stress that there should be significantly greater access for drug dogs to this work. As is known, this is a very effective method of drug search. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee shares the Ombudsman's concern about the lack of doctors in North Norway. We know that this is also a problem in the civil market. Special recruitment measures will be required to correct this situation. The Committee is aware that a proposal from the Ministry of Defence for the establishment of a grant scheme for medical services for the subsequent provision of services was rejected by the Ministry of Labour and Administration, but the Committee asks FD to take this up with the AAD for a reassessment. With this I recommend the proposal for a decision in Innst. S. No 153.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e647	This matter, which has been dealt with by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, is, in fact, a quite perceptive matter. It is alarming because there is such a broad political consensus in the Committee on the further use of earmarked funds in the municipal sector, and because the Riksrevision's criticism of how designation has worked in the relationship between the state and the municipality is actually quite killing. What the Riksrevision states is that while the Storting felt that the proportion of earmarked funds should decrease – which was thought to be the case in 1988 – the proportion of money allocated to municipalities, which is earmarked for the same period – increased from 1988 to 1998 from 20 to 40 pst. This means that the municipalities are very much detailed by the state. Now there are many different earmarked grants, and that's how the 20 largest grants make up 90 pst. of the total amount, while the 50 smallest constitute only two psts. So when you talk about earrings, you talk about a wide range of large and small earrings. We're also talking about different ways to label the ear. We're talking, for example. on price distorting subsidies. There are earmarks from the state and municipality where the state assumes that the municipalities provide with a certain proportion. What the Riksrevision can prove is that price-distorting grants go to municipalities with a good economy rather than to municipalities with a bad economy. And it's not that weird when you think about it. Because when you demand a certain proportion of money, there will be a number of municipalities that can't afford the excess that triggers the state funds. And so you have a system where quite a few of the earmarked funds work so that the differences between municipalities are increasing and not decreasing. It is contrary to the arguments that have been used to use ear-marked substances. Let me give you one example of price distortion and how it works. Efforts in the field of care for the elderly – and it is primarily in the health and social field that we have a large amount of earmarked resources and of price-changing ear-marking resources – are actually a very good example of how things work, because they require a municipal ownership. To a large extent, it has meant that municipalities have dust-sucked budgets in other areas to get money for the excess required. This means that in many municipalities this money is taken from the school sector. It is the second major expenditure item that the municipalities have. And I don't think there's a single grandmother and grandfather and not a single great-grandmother and great-grandfather in this country who thought it was a granddaughter or a great-grandchild who was going to pay for a worthy old-age care in the form that they were going to get worse school supplies. I don't think so. So here's a typical example of how the twist turns in. In the case of price-neutral grants, it is most noticeable that the National Audit Office documents how little knowledge is available about how it actually turns out. So here, we have used instruments in the relationship between the state and the municipality without knowing whether they work properly, without knowing or having been able to document whether it has led to an increase in activity in the field for which it is earmarked, or how it actually worked. It's alarming. This is a national audit report that is an important crossroads of thought for government, but also to a very great extent for the Storing. I myself have proposed earmarked funds in many rounds in the Stortinget and know that there are groups around the municipalities – which are not large groups – who have difficulty getting a pass on to municipal administration and municipal policy management, and who often need help from a central organisation and from the Stortinget to be seen and heard at all. Of course, the rights of individual citizens need to be strengthened in some areas of the local government sector and in services for which the local government sector is responsible. But it can be done in several ways. Probably the designation of funds helps to increase the difference between municipalities, but we don't know exactly how it works, because you have too bad feedback systems. There is often no system for ending it, and it is too bureaucratic in relation to what is the effective use of funds. One might rather imagine a system of more elaborate minimum standards for services in a number of areas, such as: the majority of these decisions have been adopted in the school sector. You might think of similar minimum standards in some other areas, but the position that is underlying here today, and for which there is a broad majority on the Stortinget, I think you have to go in a direction that the Stortinget concentrates on creating more general guidelines for what is reasonably standard, and so don't interfere with how the municipalities and the inhabitants of individual communities and municipalities actually want to do this. That balance sheet is demanding, but it's in the direction we have to go. It's more efficient use of money. However, we must not fool ourselves into believing that there is no conflict at all. This will also mean that there is a greater need to accept different local diversity in the way services are designed — not by standard, but in the way services are designed. This must mean that according to a standard you accept different ways of teaching in different municipalities, so there will be no full gambling between municipalities. In the opinion of the SV, it is also important to think of the decentralization of power and authority based on the recognition that the sense is roughly equal here in the country – believe it or not! This means that you can make wise decisions in many places other than the Storting, and that people who have insights into their own work situation, their own user group, are often closer to finding solutions that are better for those involved, and that citizens have both the sense and the sense to say something about what kind of services they want. In the opinion of SV, this is therefore more of a first step towards the decentralisation of power, authority and money, but something that does not need to stop at municipal level. This may also mean more freedom for — let’s say — each school or institution of the elderly to design services with a significant potential for employee involvement, with a significant potential for impact on users and with a significant potential for impact on relatives, the elderly or those around them. One important task for the municipal sector in the future will be to make people want to work in the municipal sector. An important counter-simulation towards working where pay is of course – I will leave it in this round – and the working environment – we shall also leave that behind – but it is a bureaucratic system, that they feel that they are working in a too bureaucratic system, a too top-notch system, that it takes too long to arrive at, that there is too little impact on their own work situation. And I think that's going to be the next step in terms of the direction this is going to give. What the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is doing is going through the report that the Stortinget has received from the Riksrevision, but it is the Stortinget, and actually other committees in this house, which in the future have to take the design of how this is to be done, and which must remember the criticism that comes from the Riksrevision and have it in mind, not only the first year, but also the next year, because there is so alarming a lack of coherence between what the Stortinget has made of guidelines in general terms, and what has actually been adopted. The Riksrevision has documented that. Now it's up to us to do the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e681	The use of earmarked grants in the local government sector was, as we remember, a major theme of the Great Britain's treatment of the new income system in 1986, i.e. for approx. 14 years ago. The aim at that time was to improve the financial autonomy of municipalities by increasing the framework transfers at the expense of earmarked grants. As the rapporteur, Kristin Halvorsen, has stated in an excellent way, the opposite has actually happened. The share of earmarked grants in State transfers has increased from 20 pst. in 1988 to 40 p.m. in 1998, whereas the share of this subsidy form in the total income of Kommune-Norges in the same period has increased from about 1 January 1998 onwards. 10 pst. until 17 pst. The starting point for the matter under consideration by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is, as explained by the rapporteur, the Riksrevision's examination of earmarked grants as an instrument for the State in the management of municipalities, and whether the State achieves the desired effects through the use of this type of grant. Like the rapporteur, I would like to stress that the conclusion of the study is thought-provoking. On the one hand, major reforms, not least in the health and social sectors, have been initiated through earmarked grant schemes, pilot projects have been implemented, etc. On the other hand, it appears that extensive use of earmarked grants, which require municipal co-financing, has contributed to increasing the income gap between municipalities. That municipalities with a weak economy receive an average of 30 pst. less in earmarked grants than municipalities with a good economy, provides real grounds for reflection. It could not have been the intention of the Big One. Furthermore, municipalities that have at an early stage prioritised important areas, such as: care for the elderly, to varying degrees, has been compensated. A separate study of two grant schemes without a requirement for a local proportion of what are known as price-neutral schemes, of psychiatry and wage subsidies for care services, shows that only 40 pst. and 2 pst. of the increased grant funds can be found in increased expenditure frameworks for the purposes of the municipalities in the same year. Similarly, many municipalities, especially the smaller ones, report significant administrative and planning costs that are difficult to bear. There is also little correlation between the size of the grants and the control and follow-up procedures envisaged. All this suggests that there should be a review and conversion of the state transfers to the municipalities and that the use of earmarked grants should be reduced. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs states that: ‘Government and Storting should endeavour to develop other and more appropriate governance mechanisms to achieve overall objectives and to ensure a certain standard of basic welfare services — while leaving the objectives to local elected bodies to a greater extent. This means that the Storting must accept greater variations in the design of the service offer based on local variation.’ So far, it's full agreement. The disagreement arises only when the issue of which grant schemes are to be eliminated is raised. The so-called Carlsen Committee, or the ad hoc committee for the income base of the municipal sector, from 1996, in my opinion, refers to three main categories of cases where it would be appropriate to use earmarked grants. These are when the service is in a build-up phase with very different coverage, e.g. the use of childcare facilities, where the grant is the character of a pilot scheme with a clear time limit, or where the grant covers only a few municipalities and it is difficult to believe that criteria in a general cost key can capture the expenditure requirements of those municipalities. In addition, the sample concludes that it would recommend a significant reduction in the number and volume of designated grant schemes. The overview I'm referring to is certainly in no way complementary, but it makes it visible in a clear way that earmarked grants can have a positive effect if they are used in a conscious and thoughtful way. I think it is important to find alternative ways to ensure the very basic welfare services in municipalities. Of course, this work requires the involvement of all parties. Municipalities themselves must also be willing to give signals about which schemes should be deleted. If you want a real strengthening of municipal autonomy, which I think everyone agrees that we should fight for, you have to, as the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee points out, accept greater inequalities in the provision of services between municipalities. The relationship between society's duty to ensure, first and foremost, the right of individuals to welfare services wherever they live in the country and municipal freedom of action is, as we all know, a very difficult balance. The new government with the municipal minister at the head is concerned with these issues. The Minister of Local Affairs has already met with the Central Association of the Municipalities, among others. on a scheme to include part of the earmarked grants in the framework State transfers. This, I think, is an important initiative that will be interesting to follow further. Now, like the rapporteur, I would like to conclude by saying that it is hardly appropriate to say a clear yes or no to the use of earmarked grants. This type of transfer can play a positive role as a means of initiating desired trials, advancing national bets, etc. However, the assumption is that it is conscious when such grants are to be used, whether the individual scheme should have a time limit and, in the case of duration, what criteria for the objectives and results of the schemes should be assessed, and how to ensure that the earmarked grants are actually used for the purposes for which they are intended to be strengthened. At the end of the day, I also think it is important to further assess the possibility of simplifying the control systems, so that as much as possible of the earmarked funds can be used directly for the purposes that the authorities want to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e714	The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee is important in many areas. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has reviewed the work of the National Audit Office and the ECON Centres for Economic Analysis have examined the various forms of financial assistance and their impact on municipalities. It has given confirmation that the situation in Kommune-Norway today is such that a lot of financial and human resources are spent on finding out and working on the different arrangements, and that it is a get-back from the state, often very little. This is why variations are increasing. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I would like to stress that we are concerned, as was the case with Mr Halvorsen, with the basic services for which the municipalities are to cover, and for which they are responsible, such as the health sector, and not least the school sector, which is the major sectors, we see that when Kommune-Norge does not properly prioritise and does not find new ways to solve the challenges in Kommune-Norge, there is often a struggle between these two important sectors of the municipalities. We in the Progress Party are very concerned about the differences we see between municipalities in Norway in the provision of services in the school and health and social sectors. Therefore, the Progress Party is the best friend of municipal politicians in providing a financial framework to enable municipalities across the country, irrespective of where they live, to offer a level playing field in these two key areas. That is why we have a special remark in the position that we want to maintain the arrangement with earmarked funds to the municipalities in order to strengthen these basic services. It is not because we do not trust that municipal politicians will give priority, but it cannot be the case in a country like Norway that it should depend on where you live, whether you get a proper school offer, and not least whether you get security with a good health and social policy. That's the basis for us having that particular comment. Otherwise, there's a lot of good in this setting. The developments since the new municipal income system have been in various forms, and the major review in 1986 confirms that in this area it is the Progress Party that has been in the forefront of how we are going to solve these challenges. But I am convinced, and I take it as a matter of course, that when we get the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, we will have both proposals and ideas from the Government on how to resolve this, and that we will have a broad political discussion in the Trade Union Committee that really governs these issues. We in the Progress Party are convinced that it will be a useful and good round. The local politicians, through the KS and the recordings they want to make, will also help us to focus our attention on the fact that we have a system that has not worked well enough in a country with a little over 4.3 million inhabitants, and that we have all kinds of rules around the world regarding earmarking funds, where the municipalities have to go in with a lot of peculiarities. We hope that this can help us to have a broad, thorough and good discussion on this, so that democracy and Municipality Norway can be strengthened in terms of basic services, and that we allow for greater freedom for individual municipalities – as has also been said here – to organise the provision of services in other areas, which are not required by law and which are the basic services. With this, I thank the National Audit Office for a good enough contribution to putting important things in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e725	I'm not going to start a polemic with the representative Vidar Kleppe about who's the best friend in the municipality. However, I would think that those who carefully read the draft budget of the Progress Party will see that there are also some cutbacks in the municipal sector that are the basis for significant redistribution. We are now dealing with a matter with strong feelings about who will be in charge, and there is a lot of evidence that municipalities with good finances will benefit better from earmarked funds than municipalities with tight finances. Not least, it is clear that a general negative attitude towards the government management of the local authorities’ transfers is not clear to those who are being asked what exactly these earmarked funds look like, except that they refer to the fact that the actual timing of the tasks may be the challenge to the municipalities in relation to the day-to-day needs of the individual tasks. The main criticism is that freedom of action is reduced and that statutory tasks can be harmed where there are no earmarked funds to get to the specific tasks. The National Audit Office’s study is widely conducted, and ECON becomes familiar with the impact of earmarked grants on the priorities of municipalities between 1985 and 1997. The wish of the state was according to Innst. S. No 305 for 1983-84 to better facilitate local priorities. The number of earmarked schemes should be reduced and instead turned to framework funding. We have heard from the rapporteur of the case clearly how this has developed. Because we've seen that we've got an increase from 20 pst. in 1988 until 40 p.m. in 1998. Growth seems to be explained by large increases in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, while the other departments have a real reduction from 1992 to 1998. It is positive that there has been no increase in the number of grant schemes since 1986. It is worth noting that the largest grant schemes cover 90 pst. of total earmarked payments, while the 50 minimum grant schemes represent only 2 pst. of the transfers. There is a significant potential here to close a significant number of schemes. It often becomes too easy to be just critical of earmarked transfers. There is no doubt that these schemes are aimed at providing similar services in individual municipalities and are accelerating major, heavy reforms, such as: The reform of the PU, the provision of care for the elderly, the development of kindergartens and the school leisure system, to mention some areas of activity. However, there is a broad consensus in the Storting that earmarked grants should be limited. In my opinion, the National Audit Office raises an important question as to whether the State uses earmarked grants in the management of the local government in an appropriate way. Here, there is every reason not least to focus on what the rapporteur was about in his article. By reducing the number of designated schemes, the impact of the remaining ones can be better, which must be a primary responsibility for all of us. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs points out that designation can affect cost-effectiveness and that it is important to take into account that the free revenues are large enough to allow municipalities to co-finance, and that the action plan for elderly care and the psychiatry escalation plan in 1998 and 1999 respectively must be included in the evaluations for the framework for earmarked transfers after 1997. The Christian People's Party agrees with the intention by facilitating that transfers from the State to the municipalities should be included as far as possible in the income system. In this context, it is natural to reduce the number of transmission schemes. This will naturally lead to greater variation in the provision of municipal services. In this context, it is important to remove earmarked grants which require municipalities themselves to co-finance schemes that are prioritised from the Stortinget and to develop performance measurements in this respect in order to detect the preservation of priority areas without designation. I recommend a proposal for a decision, which I believe the rapporteur has also made in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e753	The right is very pleased that there is an overall committee that determines that the Riksrevision study provides arguments and basis for reducing the number of earmarked grant schemes. To date, the Right has argued that both the Government and the Storting must come up with more appropriate governance mechanisms to achieve overall objectives in the local government sector. Commissioner Schaug just said that the Riksrevision's conclusions are ‘moving in mind’, and I agree with him to this extent. It is more than a cross of thought when it is found that, for example, in 1998, the earmarked grants amounted to approximately 32 billion kroner, while the framework transfers amounted to approx. NOK 47 billion. In this context, it is therefore very gratifying, from the point of view of the Right, that the entire Committee states that the Storting must accept greater variation in the design of services based on local variations around the country's municipalities. Then it's to hope that all the parties follow up in practical politics through concrete decisions here in the Storting. Like the case rapporteur, Kristin Halvorsen, I would like to remind the other committees of Stortingen to take the Riksrevision's views into account when dealing with matters where the earmarked grants and target management of the municipalities are the subject. After all, the new municipal minister and the Labour Party get their first chance in the revised national budget in a month's time, not to mention the excellent opportunity that the budget of the autumn will be to follow up the Riksrevisions and the clear recommendations made by the Control Committee to wind up some of the earmarked grant schemes. In the Right, as I was in, we have been concerned for a long time with these arrangements and with the principle of subsidiarity, which means that municipalities and communities should be more able to choose their own course of action, for example. the boundary between municipal and private responsibilities for local tasks which the municipality should offer within the individual services, even if minimum standards are designed by Stortinget solution models and the design of the individual municipal offer of local governance; When the representative Kleppe wanted to wind up earmarked grant schemes, but still have the same offer in all the municipalities, I do not understand it any other way than that there is a conflict between his arguments. On the right, the principle of subsidiarity gives strong confidence that local communities will be able to find their own solutions to their own tasks. The State must stop overarching and steering the municipalities in detail by making extensive use of earmarked grant schemes, and the Riksrevision report clearly shows that when the municipality uses earmarked grants as it now does, it is wrong to do so. It also seems that more and more municipal politicians are asking for greater local freedom, not for more earmarked grant schemes. With lower government governance ambitions and fewer rules, municipalities can make better use of their revenues and contribute to the welfare of those living in the municipality. ECON Report 63/98 – The effects of earmarked grants – which were commissioned by the National Audit Office, believe that the effects are satisfactory in terms of the price distorting subsidies, i.e. the grants calculated on the basis of the actual activity, in particular when they are granted as operating grants. That's good. On the other hand, in the case of the non-pricing grants, in other words the grants granted on objective criteria, the result is discouraging. Too often, there is a leakage, says the ECON report, and determines it to over 50 pst, by the fact that the grant goes to something other than what it was meant to do. This confirms that earmarked grants are absolutely not a wonderful means of directing the activity of municipalities. Another unfortunate effect of earmarked grants depending on the proportion of the municipality is that it actually benefits the municipalities that have the best finances and that the positive effects decrease over time. Of course, this is no news for us, and I refer to the special comment I have found on behalf of the Right to come, as well as that we are with the rest of the committee in the vote. As early as the early 1990s, we pointed out the need to reduce the level of earmarked grants. On the other hand, I am not going to deny that earmarked grants correctly arranged and properly dosed can actually be a good and correct tool. You don't have to become dogmatic on these questions. In this context, I refer you to the Rattsø Committee, which evaluated financial instruments such as: unit-price financing, such as input-driven financing, and that this would be economically efficient schemes without negative aspects, which traditional forms of earmarked grants have. The same goes for the other ECON report, which is the basis of the Riksrevision report. By the way, there will be a good opportunity to discuss the use of earmarked grants in connection with an interpellation that Erna Solberg has travelled to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on 21 March this year. Her approach is that municipalities must retain more of the tax revenue, and she challenges the Government to change the municipal income system so that a greater part of the value added remains in the municipalities. The way today’s income system is designed – and here, sadly, earmarked grants are used extensively by several governments – gives municipalities far too little incentives, among other things. to facilitate industrial development conditions and thus improve the basis for increased tax revenue. Not later than last autumn, the Right proposed to add 14 earmarked grants to the framework. We did not get a majority at that time, but now I hope that the understanding of the other parties has improved, and that the criticism of the use of earmarked grants as a whole control committee is behind, will provide the Government with a back coverage for a thorough clearance of these grant schemes already in the next draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e802	Document No 3:5 on the National Audit Office’s survey on earmarked funds in the municipal sector is a thorough and important document. One has to conclude that the Stortinget's intention of more framework financing and less earmarking has been achieved in the near future. The earmarked funds in 1998, as we have already heard, amounted to DKK 32 billion and the framework funding to NOK 47 billion. It's not strange that Municipality-Norway says they're tied to hands and feet. In particular, it is the major health reforms that leave farms with most of the ear tagging. The action space for municipalities is therefore very small when excesses are required for government funds to be released. The centre party has a great deal of understanding of the frustration of the municipalities in this area, and former municipal minister Odd Roger Enoksen started a process to improve the situation, which I will come back to. Designation of grant funds has also been a review theme in this room. The idea was to reduce these considerably. So one has to ask why we haven't managed to change this after the intention. I share with the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Odd Roger Enoksen's statement that the wit is fairly well distributed across the country. It should be pointed out that the Stortinget left more control over regional and local politicians. But it has gone in the opposite direction. Whether designation has resulted in a total improvement in service provision can be discussed. Because if one secures one service area in the municipality, it may go beyond other areas. For example, when it comes to health reform, we've heard the school people say it's gone down on the school sector. Then there is a requirement for earmarking in this area too – and therefore we are inside a vicious circle. It is no wonder that some local politicians and KS sometimes say in pure frustration that the state can just as well take over the whole thing. It was interesting to hear the case rapporteur, Kristin Halvorsen, say that SV now, instead of ringing – as that party has been for a long time, as I know it – will rather develop general standards to ensure equivalent offers. But how such standards should be designed without compromising local self-government is something that becomes interesting to study. I don't have an answer to that today, but I'm sure there's a process we have to go into. Not least, some earmarked funds have not been price adjusted for many years. Neither the government that went off, nor the government that was sitting before, has done anything about it. I think it's five-six years since the rates were adjusted. It's very unfortunate. The centre party is concerned with local self-government and will strengthen this, but we must at the same time want to and dryly rely on local politicians' ability to judge. Earmarking often requires action plans to achieve earmarked grants. This is done to ensure the use of the funds. It is demanding, and it costs both time and money with several annual works in the administration, which can go beyond service production. It is appropriate to consider carefully whether such planning requirements can be reduced in line with the requirement of greater freedom for municipalities. The central government's invitation to try out more framework funding in the municipalities was very well received. If I do not remember correctly, 160 municipalities reported their interest in this, while only 20 were given the opportunity. So the disappointment was probably great for the 140 people who did not get involved in the attempt to try more framework funding. The motivation was, as we understand, very great for wanting to steer for models other than those we have today. It will be interesting to study the evaluation of these trials. The new information system, called COSTRA, will probably provide a better overview of how funds are used. I note, however, that the Riksrevision raises questions about whether KOSTRA will meet the needs of the departments for performance information. I'm assuming that there are qualitative results that are meant here. This is likely to be difficult to capture in a computer application, but it should be an important objective to know what kind of care, health and training services are provided to each individual citizen. I am sure that we will increasingly demand the quality of the services. We need to pay particular attention to what is involved in having a well-developed public service. I have noticed that in a comment, the Committee points out that the Riksrevision study identifies major shortcomings in measuring actual increase in activity using price-neutral subsidies. Municipalities with a weak economy receive an average of 30 pst. less in earmarked funds than those with a good economy. And I fully agree with the committee, which says that earmarked grants that require municipal co-financing should be stepped down, and that results should be developed for the effect of price neutral subsidies. Similarly, the Centre Party agrees with the Committee when it states that it is appropriate to mitigate the control requirements of the small grant schemes in order to reduce administrative costs in the municipalities. This is in line with signals we get when we meet municipal politicians and councillors. It is not understood that the state requires a lot of work in this area, while the local government budgets for real services have to be strangled. We must never forget the main thing: to give good offers to children, young people, sick people and the elderly. For individuals, it does not matter where the money comes from, but they have to be there to provide the services. I think I dare say that the discussion about earmarked funds is not really interesting for anyone but politicians, councillors and interest groups. The obligation of the Grand Duchy and the Government to ensure that public funds are used as appropriately as possible is a good example of this. Among other things, we have The National Auditorate to help us with this. And once again, they've come up with a very useful and good report, which we all have to remember. I have noticed that it has been said that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has already contacted the KS about this with the designation of funds. I think that's very good. It must be a very topical issue to address in the consultations initiated by the previous government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e834	I think the Riksrevision has given us a good overview of how the ear tags work in Kommune-Noreg. I would also say that the case spokesperson from SV, Kristin Halvorsen, has given us a thorough review of the plural meaning. In addition, I have to say that I am going to be a little daunted when I hear the spokesperson of the Advance Party say that they are the municipalities' best friend. It is often that the Progress Party tries to present itself as: best friend with most. But read a program and look at the budgets they have, including the municipal sector, which is supposed to take care of the life situation of ordinary people, it's quite hairy to make such a claim. I believe that the single price system, as the Progress Party highlighted here, gives us a good opportunity to discuss it later. When it comes to ear-marked appeals, it is certainly right to say that not least the politicians and organisations have been very concerned about getting ear-marked appeals to the local government sector. But after a while, I also think there are a lot of thoughts that the ear-marked appeals can influence local democracy, and not least the politicians who are in the local government and who see that there is already a certain place for money to go. Therefore, I agree with all those who have said that we need to look at the eartags. It is true, as we have also said, that we use approx. 32 billion kroner for ear-marked additions, while the frame transfer is approximately Forty - seven billion dollars. At least from the Labour Party's side, we have said that the free income of the municipalities needs to be increased, and it needs to be reduced to ear-marked credits, and I hope that the municipal minister will follow up on that point. This is also included in the plural comments in the option. I want to mention a little bit about my own state, where we know that all the municipalities are actually the minimum income municipalities. One of the problems with fulfilling the decisions made at Stortinget in the various areas where one has earmarked money is simply that the municipalities do not have the property to pay with. This means that the requirements imposed by the Stortinget, which the municipalities would like to follow up, both on the elderly's initiative, on health, on the HVPU and on the school sector, can't afford it at all. Therefore, we see that there is a greater inequality between rich and poor municipalities when they cannot fulfill what the Stortinget has said. It must also be true, I believe – when we know that we in Kommune-Noreg today have a lot of rich municipalities – that we can have a greater equalization between rich and poor municipalities. It has also been said here that there are fundamental needs necessary for municipalities to meet, and there are good old-age policies, there are good schooling facilities, there are kindergartens, and that municipalities can also support some of the different cultural services available in the municipality of Norway. We're actually looking at a part of the budget today that if there's something going on, there's actually cultural provision out in the districts. That's a shame, because we know that there'll be little activity and cultural provision out there in the municipalities, people won't live there. The municipal sector and the municipal economy are well things we can come back to, and we get plenty of access to that later. Otherwise, I would like to suggest the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e849	In my opinion, the size has been well explained by the National Audit Office’s study on the use of earmarked grants as a State instrument in relation to the local government sector. And it's true, as many have pointed out in the debate, that while the Stortinget said very many years ago clearly that we should be steering the municipalities more strongly through goals and performance management combined with free income, that is. Taxes and Framework Grants, then, in that period, corruption and government have largely done the opposite, that is to say, ear-marked more and more. I have noticed that the Committee believes that there is now a basis for reducing the number of earmarked grant schemes. The Government agrees. I am therefore pleased that the Committee says so clearly and broadly that government and enlargement should strive to develop other and more appropriate governance mechanisms towards the local government sector in order to achieve the objectives agreed. The way in which the objectives are to be achieved should be left to local elected bodies, and the Storting must therefore more widely accept variations in the design of services at local level. I agree with this, and I would like to point out that in the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, presented to the Stortinget on 19 May, proposals will be made for the inclusion of earmarked grants in the income system, and it may also be appropriate to wind up some earmarked grants. Furthermore, I refer to the attempt currently being made in 20 municipalities, where several earmarked grants are awarded as a framework grant. I also notice that it is pointed out that the earmarked grants, which require a municipal excess and an increase in activity, increase the income gap between municipalities in favour of rich municipalities. I note that the Committee believes that earmarked grants that require municipal co-financing should be stepped down, even if these schemes are considered to be the most effective for the rapid strengthening of a service area. Instead, the Committee says, there is a need to develop results measurement for the effect of price neutral subsidies, and of course, it takes the Government into account in the further work that we are now in the middle of. The Committee says that grants that co-finance municipal investment work better in relation to poor municipalities, and of course we take that with us. I agree with the self-criticism that the Committee notes that the Storting itself has not followed up on its own objectives in the transfers between the State and the municipalities, and that one is also aware that the way in which it governs poses a risk of passivating the municipalities through extensive use of national action plans. Municipalities that have been early off in prioritising an area and who later see that other municipalities receive more income through national action plans may be more pending at the next crossroads. The Committee also calls for a review of the earmarked schemes with a view to establishing good reporting procedures and a review of the reporting of financial information from the local government to the State on the earmarked grants. Reference is made here to the lack of coherence between the grant size and the administrative burden. I think this is an important point, because we have gradually developed so many earmarked schemes that require so much bureaucracy, that it is time to go the other way, in relation to both reducing the number of earmarked funds and also reducing the bureaucracy around it. I myself have met representatives of small municipalities such as the Netherlands. says that the money they've been given that they're going to spend on psychiatry to help people with mental disorders have only agreed to hire the people who were going to sit and make sure that the plans, reports, applications, etc. I was fine. It's an example that we're on wild roads with regard to the use of earmarked funds, and not least the bureaucracy that we've built around it. Therefore, it is a clear goal for this government too that we need to reduce the red tape around the schemes, to reduce earmarked funds and to ensure that the people we have at our disposal in the municipal sector are much more used in direct services to people most, instead of managing, reporting and making plans and applications in relation to earmarked funds. In other words, the challenge is to find good reporting procedures for earmarked grants without overburdening the municipalities, and I believe that there are significant simplifications to this. It can be done in several ways. In the case of the large earmarked grants used over several years for running tasks in the municipalities, such as: the nursery allowance, the reporting related to the grant may be integrated into the regular reporting that is now being developed through the so-called KOSTRA project. For the many small earmarked grants that are difficult to capture in the regular reporting through COSTRA, I believe, as the Riksrevision, that it may be appropriate to greatly simplify reporting requirements, e.g.: by not requiring specific accounting data for such grants. This is the government set to go through carefully to get a simplification, also in this area. I have also noticed that the Committee considers that the evaluation of new earmarked grants should include arrangements for the evaluation of the grant and evaluation of its termination or inclusion in the income system. I fully agree that we have to. In summary, there seems to be a broad consensus now to give a clear signal that a much stronger and more critical search light will now be placed on the use of earmarked grants, both by the Government and by the Storting. This is in line with what is stated in the Government's Declaration of Accession that state detail management needs to be reduced and that the local authority sector needs to be given more room for action. The first milestone we will have in relation to the treatment of the 2001 Community Economic Proposition, where the Government, as mentioned above, will present proposals for a plan for the inclusion/end of earmarked grants. Finally, I would like to stress that this is a demanding process, as several have also been involved. In the public debate, I think a lot of people agree that the use of earmarked funds has to go down, but when one comes to the practical and concrete proposals, there is, on the one hand, a rather deafening silence, and, on the other, resistance to incorporating exactly the earmarked grant. A small example of this is that when we have tried to integrate the clay school grant in several rounds, all the rapporteurs who had camp schools have immediately been at the door and said that this is exactly what we cannot include. There is only one example that this is a demanding process. When we now agree across the party boundaries that the use of ear-marked products has to go down, I hope we can agree that there are some concrete proposals in the wake of it, which I hope we can also agree on at later intersections.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e872	I have to say I'm a little surprised at some of the members of the Control and Constitution Committee. We in the Progress Party have put emphasis on and will – and that is a fact, whether the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Workers' Party like it or not – that the money should follow automatically, whether it is the patient or the school life, because we have to have a similar offer for Norway as a whole. Therefore, we can proudly claim that we are the best spokespersons of municipal politics and municipalities in Stortinget, because we want a similar offer. That others don't like it is okay enough. When we look at the reforms adopted by the Stortinget, the majority in this Chamber, in many areas, whether the reform 97, the HVPU reform or other reforms, we see that it has been a problem for the local politicians in all parties to implement the reforms, in the light of the financial framework that the parties in this Chamber have granted them. In the past, the National Audit Office has focused on issues such as: on the 6-year reform and reform 97 and its implementation, and stated that the Municipality of Norway did not receive enough money from the Stortinget to implement them. in connection with the discussion that was then, I would say that it is not useful with great party speeches and to claim that one is busy with the primary tasks and that municipalities should be given the opportunity to provide a service offer and a teaching that is similar across the country, when it is not followed up in practice. We know that the municipality of Oslo, the municipality of Kristiansand, the municipality of Trondheim and many other municipalities have pointed out that they have not received enough money, money, from the state once they have implemented these reforms. We are pleased that we have received this setting. As I mentioned in my previous article, we agree that we are taking this debate. It was reassuring to hear that the Council of State now said that she would come back to this in connection with the 2001 municipal economic proposition. We think that is fair and proper, because then the Trade Union Committee will have a thorough discussion of the various measures and ways in which we can do so. I'm not going to provoke anyone or acquire any other opinions that they don't have. However, the fact is that, in terms of both corporation tax and primary tasks, the Progress Party will have to follow the funds automatically, and an offer similar to that of the whole country is to be made. I believe that we can claim that we take the municipalities seriously. That other parties haven't realized this, we're just going to have to take notice. We mean something by what we say. When we have primary tasks to cover throughout the Kingdom, they shall be properly and thoroughly covered. Then it has to keep up with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e885	I have deliberately tried to keep the whole discussion about the local economy away from this discussion, because I have the feeling that every time you discuss the local government sector, it ends up in a discussion about dollars and ears. In order to be able to clean up some questions about structure and system, I have tried to keep it out. It is clear that if a significant decentralisation is carried out, while there is a very gap between the expectations of the services provided by municipalities and the money they actually have at their disposal, it will be perceived locally as a strategy for disbursement by Storting, rather than a strategy for decentralisation. However, when it comes to the debate on municipal economy, SV believes that there must be a significant commitment if the standard of municipal services is to be close to what we – modern, up-to-date people with significant growth in private consumption in recent years – expect in terms of choice, when compared to the standard in other areas. That default gap is very worrying to us, and we think it provides a basis for extensive privatisation if we can't do anything about it. With regard to the system of transfers to the municipalities, I will not go into any marked polemics against what the Right Party and the Advance Party are more in favour of, namely, unit-price financing. It is the opposite system of what I see in our conclusions after the Riksrevision report, because then one makes a package, a price, and that means that the service should cost the same around the country, with a check and a right – a completely square right – attached to it, while discussing local democracy and the possibility of being more likely to influence the local design of services, one must also focus on what is the advantage of the different local environments in terms of how services should be designed. This means that the primary school in Lofoten can be on a fishing boat, while the secondary school in Grünerløkka can be with a plumber, a gold teacher, a furniture carpenter or in a café – to start from that very point of view. What I feel is that the bulk of the population has come up is the recognition of the need to move decisions in relation to how services are to be designed, a step further in the direction of the municipal level, but we have to look into the fact that in this area there are and there are to be draw fights between different interests. There are good conflicts, if you can use it most offensively. There are different interests, and there are good conflicts that enable one to make reasonable compromises that protect the different users. We should not be afraid that there are contradictions in these questions, but we should shift the focus a little bit closer to local decisions. I thank the Riksrevision for having opened my eyes, which led to a painful but probably necessary political process. This is just the continuation of a drag fight that is really going between big business and government on the one hand and the municipalities on the other – a necessary conflict, but where I perceive that the bulk of the population has moved a little further into the direction of municipal and local influence on how the service provision is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e899	I am sorry that I, who is not in the committee, should take the floor twice. The representative Vidar Kleppe said he did not want to provoke anyone in the committee, but he managed to provoke me. He'll have praise for one thing, and that's that he says things in a simple and forgiving way. Maybe a lot of us have something to learn. But it must not be so easy that we wonder both ourselves and others. That's what I'm afraid of, and I'm pretty sure that the representative Vidar Kleppe does, because when he says that the Progress Party is the best friend of the municipalities because they give an equal sum to everyone whether it's care or school – the same sum either a living in Bærum or Skåk or Engerdal, regardless of geography, of other framework factors – it's clear that it's going to be very difficult to get equivalent offers. Ida, the sum can be the same, but when we know that the use of money for school students in the different municipalities varies from 120,000 kroner per. years to approx. NOK 35,000, how would it go around the world if we distributed NOK 35,000 to all municipalities, no matter where it was in Norway? This only shows how unfair the claims of the representatives of the Progress Party are when they say they are the best friend of the municipalities. In addition, they will also centralise a lot of health services to the state, so it is pure centralization that lies in these provocative notes from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e906	Vidar Kleppe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e909	We'll probably come back to this debate. That the Progress Party will centralise everything related to healthcare is not correct. What we want to centralize is the financial responsibility, that the state guarantees to pay what it costs for those people who are sick and poor throughout Norway to have an equal legally binding right to get the help they need, when they need it, and not have to stand in these infinite queues. That the grant should be the same in the school sector, we haven't said. We'll find a solution to that. There's also a difference between students. In the case of pupils with disabilities, it is clear that the financial rate has to be increased so that we can facilitate the conditions and have respect for the human dignity of these people. And I had hoped and believed that the Center Party was interested in doing something about these relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e916	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e930	The domestic rental scheme in the country was gradually introduced from January 1992. The scheme includes, inter alia: that state establishments which dispose of premises in state buildings are required to pay rent and that users themselves have the freedom to choose premises and landlords. The main objectives of the scheme are to make the costs of rentals visible to users and to obtain more efficient and conscious use of resources. An important incentive in this context is that businesses normally retain the gain through a renegotiation. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s survey on the rent scheme for state enterprises has been to identify how the departments and selected establishments have practised the scheme and whether the practice takes place according to the Stortingen’s assumptions. The report shows that incentive schemes are not in place to a large extent and that the ministries delegate further powers to conclude leases to underlying establishments to a different extent. It is important that the instruments of target and result management are used and that the Committee asks the ministries to delegate more powers to the underlying activities. At the same time, it is important that the costs of moving always be assessed in relation to the costs of current leases. The Committee took note of the Court of Auditors' view that the Ministry of Labour and Administration should have assumed a more active follow-up and guidance responsibility vis-à-vis the Ministries, and asked the Ministry of Labour and Administration to assess this. However, the appropriate practice of the house rental system must always be the responsibility of each department. In addition, the survey shows that there are several factors limiting the impact of the rental scheme. Many sectors are excluded from the scheme, many enterprises have to have special buildings, and for some enterprises co-location may limit freedom of choice. An overall committee recommends that Document No. 3:8, the National Audit Office’s survey on the rental scheme for State enterprises is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e949	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e963	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e972	The size must be treated today on St.meld No. 24, which deals with two aspects: the introduction of third-generation mobile communications systems – UMTS – and virtual operators on the mobile network. UMTS – Universal Mobile Telecommunications System – is a mobile and wireless communication system to be implemented in the EEA area by 1 January 2002 at the latest. UMTS will be able to offer a bandwidth of up to 2 Mbit/s and it will then be possible to meet all telecommunications needs of a single service provider. In some areas, UMTS will replace GSM and in other areas will be a complement to GSM. UMTS will also contribute to the development of convergence between different technologies. There is considerable uncertainty about the development of UMTS with regard to the standards and terminals that will be developed, market demand, offers and prices of services. To this end, the Committee proposes that there should not be minimum coverage and deployment rates in the start-up phase, but that a network should be set up within five years in the six largest cities plus Tromsø and Bodø. The four concessions are scheduled to be awarded on late summer this year. The launch of UMTS networks in Norway is scheduled to take place in 2002. I would like to stress the importance of the allocation taking place during the late summer period, and the rapid development of the programme, so that Norway is not lagging behind in technological development. It is also agreed that the award should be made in accordance with the tendering principle. This means that the four best-designed operators in addition to the minimum requirements will be granted a concession. Here, for example, important criteria will be extension time and geographical coverage. Although the Committee has not opted for auctioning for the award of UMTS concessions in this round, the Right is open to a broader assessment of the use of auctioning for the award of future concessions and renewal of existing ones. Any use of the auction must be seen in conjunction with the overall fiscal policy. From a professional economic point of view, there is now a question of whether and how the state will pay for frequencies and concessions — issues related to rent. This is interesting, and it should be investigated more carefully. The right is in the setting alone for a comment asking for a wider discussion of payment for frequencies and concessions in mobile telephony. However, I would encourage the new Council of State and the new government to discuss this issue more broadly, and come back to Stortinget with a case. There's cross-political agreement on the main lines of UMTS implementation, and it's joyous. However, in one important area, the majority is failing, and that is in the case of the right to drive. The right of way means that providers of telecommunications networks and services may be granted the right to use public and private property in the development of infrastructure. Because Telenor AS, Telenor Mobil AS and NetCom Asa have coverage obligations, these companies are granted right of performance. The majority oppose the granting of the four concessionaires granted the right to drive, despite the fact that the UMTS concession also requires coverage. The right sees no reason for such discrimination against concessions with cover. In the Communication, the Government of Bondevik justifies discrimination against UMTS concessionaires as follows: ‘In principle, it would be desirable to also provide concessionaries on third-generation mobile systems with equivalent right of transmission under the Telecommunication Act § 10-2, first paragraph. However, from a number of points of view, it has been called into question whether there is an unjustified discrimination in the granting of a specific right to cover providers in this area in relation to network and service providers who do not have such obligations.’» Furthermore, reference is made to the Convergence Committee’s investigation, which proposes to terminate the exercise of the right to drive. Should there be discrimination between Telenors and NetComs granted concessions and the other operators? Or should this separate court fall away for everyone? The Ministry has already filed a complaint with ESA on the basis of the right to drive. Here it is important that the Government and the majority in the debate clarify what they really mean by the right to perform. Furthermore, the notification informs that LLUB, ‘local loop unbundling’, is to be introduced. other actors shall have access to Telenor’s access networks and shall be able to decide for themselves which services they wish to provide. It is gratifying that LLUB is introduced as it can lead to increased competition and improved services. It is important that Telenor’s rental prices for access networks become such that it becomes commercially interesting for other actors to enter this market. On the right, while welcoming the introduction of LLUB, it is surprising that when the Stortingen treated LLUB less than one year ago, it was decided not to introduce LLUB by the Ministry because of the technical and safety problems it would cause. In the meantime, the EU Commission required Telenor and Telia to open to LLUB in order to approve the merger between the two companies. Following the promotion of the requirement of the European Commission, the technical and safety problems seem to have been solved. I note that there is a coincidence in time between the burden imposed by the European Commission and the absence of technical and safety problems. Right is positive to national roaming. Roaming is an agreement between different operators of networks to be able to use each other's networks. The prices of such roaming, particularly internationally, are higher than the costs. The right is in favour of using national roaming on a broad front because it can make better use of existing infrastructure and contribute to lower prices. We are disappointed that the majority does not end up at the Right. So switch to virtual operators. A virtual operator is an operator without its own system, which uses the systems of other mobile operators to pay cost-based prices to its owners. Most hearing bodies support the deployment of virtual operators. Telenor and NetCom don't. A majority of the Committee opposes the release of virtual operators on the mobile network. It's disappointing and surprising. Telenor, NetCom and the majority oppose access to virtual operators because they claim that virtual operators would weaken the incentives for network operators to expand and upgrade their networks, despite the fact that the department in the notification refers to mechanisms that can prevent such adverse outcomes. The message argues well to let go of virtual operators. It is demonstrated that competition in the mobile market is limited and that virtual operators will strengthen competition and lead to innovations on the service side. The message also points to the fact that virtual operators can help reduce the price of international roaming. These are perceptions that right-hand parts. Therefore, the Right will also release virtual operators on the mobile network. Everything is ready to conclude that virtual operators should be allowed to do so. It was also the Ministry's conclusion when the Ministry delivered a hearing opinion in November. When the department finally reached its conclusion in St.meld. No 24, however, they concluded that virtual operators should not be allowed. The crash that the Bondevik government did for Telenor and NetCom in a few months is incomprehensible and disappointing. It is a paradox that while Sweden and Denmark are changing their laws in order to allow virtual operators, the bulk of them will prevent virtual operators from operating in the Norwegian market, despite the law and concessions allowing this. In this context, I would like to point out that, in the autumn of 1998, the Post and Telecommunications Authority instructed Telenor to open up its mobile network to a virtual operator, namely Sense. The ministry chose to train this decision, so Sense went bankrupt before they started their concept. By releasing virtual operators, Norway has the opportunity to be at the forefront of the liberalisation process taking place in the EEA and the rest of the world. There is not a question of whether virtual operators should be allowed to enter the mobile market, but when. The majority want to sit on the fence and wait. The consequences are not waiting. Sense has announced that they will move the planned business from Molde to Sweden. According to the local press, Molde will lose 300-350 jobs. The bulk of these figures are poor ICT policies, poor industrial policies and poor rural policies. The majority of the population say no to a development they know will come, and they will lose jobs to Sweden by saying no. In connection with the Telia-Telenor merger, it was important to maximise mobile activity and mobile workplaces in Norway. The majority will now put obstacles in the way of the creation of new mobile services, mobile companies and mobile workplaces. Is it so that employees in Telenor are more valuable than employees in e.g. Sense? By being at the forefront of liberalisation, businesses in Norway can develop skills and new services, which will provide growth opportunities when other countries liberalise. That possibility now provides for the majority to be removed. Having access to it at all times the most modern technology is absolutely crucial for the future creation of value added and employment in this country. This is not least the case for the districts. There is some doubt as to whether the government is allowed to purchase unprofitable UMTS services, while at the same time the demand for UMTS is uncertain. The right is open to assess the purchase of unprofitable UMTS services after the five-year extension period if the demand is present, in the same way that the state today buys unprofitable flight, train and postal services, for example. On the right, a strategy is missing in the Storing Communication on how to maximise the geographic distribution of UMTS networks. Given the importance of accessing the most modern infrastructure and technology in the future, it is surprising that the centre parties have not given more attention to discussing how to maximise the uptake of UMTS. However, this is reflected in an image where the central parties in their industrial policy prioritise support measures for industries and entities with low competitiveness and limited survival, instead of focusing on the opportunities offered by new technologies. What surprises me the most, however, is that the Left, who talks a lot about IT and new technology, goes against virtual operators. For the right, it is important to facilitate the use and development of new technologies. It is crucial for the future creation of value added and employment. This is not least important for the districts. Despite the fact that the majority of population in important areas are hampering innovation and development in this country, the Right will continue to break and fight for good framework conditions for the ICT industry. The right continues to want to be the tabular of an innovative and forward-looking Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1054	The future is wireless! We live in a country that is completely at the top of the world using mobile telecommunications. At the entrance of the 21st century has over 60 pst. by the population, 2.7 million Norwegians, mobile phone. The development of the mobile communications society has gone so fast and has come so far that people's lifestyle is changing. The mobile phone came to Norway in 1966. Since 1998, the number of mobile subscribers in Norway has been higher than the number of permanent private subscribers. This illustrates the explosive development in digital telecommunications we've seen in recent years, and there's a lot of evidence that we've just seen the beginning. At the beginning of 2000, the call prices had dropped by 67 pst. in relation to 1995. This trend is expected to continue. Finally, provision is now to be made for the introduction of a third generation mobile communications system. The Labour Party has called for a higher pace of this work by the previous government, at the latest in the notes on the previous budgetary position. But when Norway, after all, is so far ahead, it is because the company, today called Telenor, has been a spearhead in development. The strong commitment of the Telecom to telecommunications from the 1970s was crucial for Norway to be raised from one of the most backward telecommunications countries in Europe and up to one of the world’s leading telecommunications countries. It is important that Norway retains and strengthens this position. It is therefore essential to ensure the laborious competence and infrastructure of telecommunications operators. This must be done at the same time as the telecommunications market is changing approximately daily. In addition, telecommunications policy objectives are to be achieved and users are to benefit from an ever-increasing range of products at ever-lower prices. In the context of value added, modern telecommunications is increasingly important. It makes this technology very central to reducing the distances and geographical barriers that exist in a country as long as we do. Thus, even for districts, it can be an advantage that we are able to be ahead of regulatory developments taking place in the EEA area and elsewhere in the world. With regard to access to the mobile network, it is subject to the fact that radio frequencies are a scarce national resource which makes it necessary to limit the number of providers that are able to deploy their own mobile network. This is done through the granting of concessions. This is based on the principle of competitive tendering. Also in relation to the deployment of third-generation mobile systems, the so-called Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS) will be used for the four concessions proposed for the development and operation of UMTS. This is an overall committee agreement. A survey in Today's Business on 12 April claimed that the Storting decision today implies Norway giving away concessions and licences almost free of charge where other countries incur billions of dollars by auctioning concessions away to the highest bidder. It is shown, among others: to the United Kingdom, currently holding an auction round of five UMTS licences. Norway and the United Kingdom are difficult to compare in this context, with enormous population and sometimes large geographical differences. One of the most central telecommunications policy objectives adopted by the Stortinget is that the population should have equal access to telecommunications services at competitive prices. This is a requirement for system operators to deal with and which, in addition to the rate of expansion, will be strongly emphasised in a tendering procedure. The practice of other countries is different. Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom have opted for auction rounds, while Finland, Denmark, Sweden and Norway have opted for competitive tendering. The ongoing round of auctions in the United Kingdom has received considerable attention in the British press. In total, there are bids of nearly 17 billion pounds, and questions are raised as to whether it is the users who finally have to pay this price. Had we had the same development in Norway, Norwegian operators could easily have come into a debt and equity situation that had made it impossible to develop new mobile systems and investments in the necessary infrastructure. Similarly, an auction element is the subject of a tendering procedure because operators are to compete for the coverage and expansion rate of the new system. There are currently two mobile networks in Norway owned and operated by Telenor Mobil AS and NetCom GSM as respectively. In addition, Telia will also become an operator in Norway. The question of access to the existing systems by operators other than those so-called virtual operators has been carefully assessed in the message. A majority of the Committee agrees with the Ministry’s assessment that such access should not be granted to virtual operators, but that a network owner and a virtual operator agree on the framework for such access on a commercial basis is already open to it within the existing legislation. It must be emphasised that there are conditions that speak both for and against access for virtual operators, but when one does not want to open up such access, it is not least in view of future investments in the mobile network, investments that are crucial for Norway's continued involvement in the ripping telecommunications development. The implementation of the third generation mobile communications system will require a high level of investment. Given virtual operators access, this may trigger new network owner deployment needs, and even if a virtual operator is required to participate in and finance this, it has proved difficult to identify conditions that are satisfactory for both parties. It is now open for the new UMTS mobile system to access the existing GSM networks through so-called roaming. This will lead to increased network activity. This is also one of the reasons why at present the majority of the Committee will not open up to virtual operators. It must also be pointed out that today there are several operators inside today’s mobile networks who are reselling the operator’s mobile services, but who can also to some extent define their own subscriptions and prices, and also produce and provide services with added value. This contributes to effective competition and developments must be closely monitored by the Government. With regard to the relatively high roaming prices that you have to pay to make use of a foreign operator’s network, I believe that these will eventually be reduced, in line with the general price evolution of telecommunications services. We are seeing today a development in Europe that can indicate just that. These prices are also determined according to a separate international calculation system and are exclusive subscription fees. The new telecommunications technology has a change force in itself that we can't predict. With a cosmos of opportunities, the telecommunications of the future can primarily affect us positively, but will also bring new challenges. The attitude of the Labour Party is known to all of us: that these opportunities and offers of the future should be offered at a reasonable price to most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1086	Communication has meant a great deal to the development of Norway, and the millennium is a farewell to the industrial community and the start of the information society. New advances are still being made in the electronic sector. An example of this is that the mobile phones with which Stortingen’s representatives are equipped are already ported to the manufacturer’s museum. Still new services are developing and changing everyday life for us all, whether we like it or not, and the Internet is becoming more and more dominant for people most. With sufficient capacity and functionality, the prerequisites for ever-new applications are present. The school can find new ways of teaching, the car shop can provide services in new ways, marketing can take place with advanced product demonstrations, and the tourism industry can sell its products using virtual experiences. We are also on the way to a global market, and the nations that are early facilitating management and business based on electronic networks and services will benefit from increasing competition. But as we increasingly use electronic networks and services in our daily activities, we also increase dependence. This applies to both private, commercial and public activities. Third-generation mobile communications system, UMTS, opens up the merger of different services, and WAP phones are becoming increasingly common. Also on the fixed network there is constant development, not only via fibre cable, but also on the copper network, where ADSL opens for the transmission of live images. With greater possibility of wireless transmission, the future will also give rise to increased competition by being independent of a fixed cable. You can use your mobile phone to call up the cabin and put on the ovens, via the mounted camera to see what the weather is like, and monitor it via the alarm system. Next-generation users of our educational and research institutions must be given the opportunity to use online services in such a way that creativity is directed towards new applications and applications. Later, the school generation will bring this to work, and we will have an accelerating effect of the new electronic services. In St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000, on access to mobile networks and on the introduction of third generation mobile communications systems access for mobile virtual operators to the mobile network and social assessments. Virtual mobile operator means an independent service provider without its own network accessing the radio access networks of existing mobile operators, thus producing and selling mobile services in competition with existing mobile operators. The main societal benefits of providing access to virtual mobile operators appear to be increased competition in the development of new services. This is somewhat different forms of access to less facilitate. Increased competition in the development of new telecommunications services could result in a better and wider choice of services for end-users and lower retail prices. In addition, virtual mobile operators could increase the possibility of several total suppliers in the telecommunications sector, thus improving the conditions for developing a wide range of services. A larger range of total suppliers will also facilitate end-users to deal with one or few telecommunications providers and facilitate investment in the service provider market. The main societal disadvantages of providing access to virtual mobile operators seem to be the possibility of reducing investment incentives for existing mobile operators. Virtual mobile operators could reduce the expectations of existing mobile operators for future returns on network investments and be associated with greater uncertainty. Failure to make socially desirable investments that can in the long term give rise to good competition in well-developed networks may have negative consequences for the further development of mobile telecommunications networks and services in Norway. However, although the former government chose to oppose the mandatory access of virtual operators to the mobile network, it is important that virtual operators are guaranteed this right, even if current legislation does not prevent agreements between network owners and virtual operators. The Contracting Party considers, under ownership, that active competition is to the greatest extent ensured by voluntary agreements between service providers with the network owners, but that virtual operators are currently guaranteed access at the request of the authorities. Furthermore, the party to the progress is of the opinion that concessions and regulations are only introduced where there are limitations on the possibilities, for example: in the case of existing airborne frequencies, and considers that four new 3G concessions are now being granted to improve competition in the mobile network. The Progress Party refers to the Ministry’s presentation of how the mobile operator’s and virtual operator’s contract is able to introduce security arrangements to ensure minimum mobile operators’ revenues if traffic forecasts differ significantly from those contained in the agreements concluded. The Progress Party is in favour of the state's ownership role in Telenor being moved to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but, like the OECD, sees no reason for the Norwegian State to sit with interests in Telenor, and it is important that a privatisation process be initiated, even if the Telenor-Telia merger collapses. We are therefore pleased that Telenor is quoted, and indicate that Swedish Telia has announced the sale of 25 pst. of its shares before the summer, and that the Swedish State has provided green light for the sale of up to 49 pst. We will show that the party of progress is already in Document No. 8:56 for 1997-98 proposed the sale of Telenor shares and the transfer of the State’s ownership role to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. That is why we are pleased that this is now being done by the fact that Telenor is being quoted and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is taking over the state's ownership role in Telenor. The Progress Party is uncertain about developments related to UMTS, but considers that the market will guide it in terms of the standards and terminals that will be developed, market demand, providers’ offerings and service prices. The Progress Party refers to the introduction of charges for the disposal of frequencies associated with DCS 1800, and the previous Government proposes the introduction of a similar scheme for UMTS, while the former Government also considered whether such a charge should be imposed on the renewal of concessions on GSM 900. The Progress Party believes that the frequency charge is only a fiscal excise duty that does not bring any socio-economic gain, other than as a purely revenue to the treasury. The fee will act as a barrier to the establishment of UMTS and will delay a rapid new nationwide mobile service, while being unnecessarily conducive to the production of services. This special tax cannot be expected to have any productivity-enhancing effect, and we are therefore promoting the following proposals: ‘The frequency charge is removed on DCS 1800 and not applied on GSM 900 and UMTS.’ Finally, we have a correction in the setting. For the first part of the proposal, where ‘GSM 1800’ shall be ‘DCS 1800’, and also on page 9, second column, where the equivalent is ‘GSM 1800’. It shall be ‘DCS 1800’. With this, the error has been corrected, and the proposal has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1119	That was clarifying. The representative Stensaker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1124	St.meld. No 24 for 1999-2000 addresses key challenges and issues that are of major importance for the further development of the mobile communications market in Norway. Telecommunications is becoming an increasingly important part of transport policy. The fact that the whole country has high quality telecommunications services at the lowest possible price is a crucial condition for employment and industrial development. This is particularly important for districts, where good ICT provision will help to reduce distance congestion. Telecommunications means more and more to people's everyday lives. Norway, on the operator’s and user’s side, has been fully in line with the introduction of mobile communications. As we have heard earlier here, today is about 60 pst. by the Norwegian population, mobile telephone users. We are actually reminded of it at regular intervals – not always as positive. A small example of this is when some mobile phone calls here in the main hall, or when a fellow passenger on the train has a very private but still fully audible phone call. It has its sides. Nevertheless, telecommunications technology gives us the opportunity to be available. It is the users and not the technology that must be blamed for not everyone knowing how to set limits, but disrupting others with ringing signals and private phone calls. This message has two main themes. It is about access to existing mobile networks and it is about the introduction of third-generation mobile communications systems. In addition, the notification states that Telenor has now found safe technical solutions of sufficient quality to enable Telenor to lease the fixed lines from the subscriber to the end-centre, so-called LLUB. It is worth noting that the Telenor warned the department not to introduce recently, in fact found its solution when the European Commission made demands in connection with the merger of Telenor and Telia. So the first main theme of the message – access to the existing mobile network, Telenors and NetCom’s GSM network. Unfortunately, we only have two companies that have their own mobile networks in Norway. Of course, this is not optimal. Several companies and increased competition could probably contribute to lower prices and extended services to consumers. On the other hand, Norway is a long-distance country, and we are not so many inhabitants either. Most of the country has no basis for the development of many networks. Building out too much capacity is expensive and has environmental consequences, and that bill will also have to be sent to consumers. For the Christian People's Party, the main thing is a good offer to the consumer – good services at reasonable prices in all parts of the country. A nationwide offer is more important to us than a lower price in the most attractive parts of the market. That's why we choose to refuse to oblige companies that own and have invested in today's GSM network to release virtual operators now. Nor does Sweden and Denmark seem to impose this without restrictions, as has well been said here. We prioritise ensuring those who invest in a nationwide network, an economic incentive to invest. If companies are required to release others on their networks, this would create uncertainty as to the return on the large investments made by these companies. We realise that competition could be stronger, that increased competition could provide somewhat lower prices and new services. But there's a third concession that Telia has now received. It will therefore be a third GSM operator that will break the duopolyene that some claims exist in the mobile sector. It will strengthen competition. Then there will be four concessions on UMTS. These concessionaires will also be entitled to roaming on the GSM network, i.e. agreements on the use of each other's networks. Thus, at least four companies will be able to offer their own services on a free basis. I would also like to stress that for the Christian People's Party, competition is not an objective. Competition is just an instrument. It may sometimes seem as if someone has forgotten. So for the introduction of third-generation mobile communications systems. The development of the telecommunications market is moving rapidly. The phone that was new yesterday is old tomorrow. The mobile phones that we are still using here are already available at the Finnish Telecommunications Museum. The committee has just been there. New services are emerging on a similar scale as traffic and customer numbers are growing. In line with traffic, the demand for services is also growing. Quality is required, low prices are required and increased capacity is required. As WAP networks become common over mobile phones, better quality transmission lines are required. And we have no reason to believe that evolution will not continue at the same rate – at least. New desires will arise. Many would want the same transmission capacity over the mobile network as over fixed lines. Third-generation mobile systems will increase capacity, and we will bet on the same standard in Norway as in Europe, otherwise known as UMTS. It is important that Norway speeds up the development of UMTS. This has been underlined by Stortinget in the past, as the representative from the Right also said. It is therefore gratifying that the Bondevik Government has accelerated this allocation process. UMTS has significantly higher capacity than the GSM system, also in relation to an upgraded GSM network with increased capacity. The capacity will provide multimedia services where images, text, speech and video can be combined. The UMTS network development concessions will be awarded following a competitive bidding process. The emphasis will be on speed and coverage. For the Christian People's Party, both are important. The rate of expansion is important to ensure that good telecommunications services are also available to Norwegian consumers. On the part of the Committee, we have also made it clear that we want to demand progress in the development of the concession period. It will ensure faster expansion. But equally important is that we can thus prevent a company from applying for a concession on UMTS with the intention of having the concession for five years and through the concession being entitled to roaming on today's GSM network. The geographical coverage of UMTS is perhaps the most difficult question in the matter we are dealing with today. We have set the minimum requirement for coverage, for UMTS to be expanded in the six largest cities as well as Bodø and Tromsø in five years. If the development is limited to these eight cities, it means that large parts of the country and large parts of the population will not have access to this network. However, if UMTS becomes a success, there is nothing to prevent a wider expansion. Today's GSM network is built up with coverage far beyond the requirements set in the concessions, because the companies have actually found it profitable. Concessions shall be awarded in accordance with a competitive procedure and cover shall be one of the criteria for selection. The majority of the Committee remains open for the minimum requirement to be reinforced in order to allow coverage beyond the eight cities to be required in the call. Hopefully, we will also have more than four competitors, which will give rise to competition in terms of both the rate of expansion and the degree of coverage. For those parts of the country that are not initially covered by the UMTS, the development of the GSM network could offer many a better offer than today. An upgraded GSM network may eventually provide a transmission capacity more than 10 times the current network, in line with the capacity of modems that are commonly used for transmission from computers over fixed telephone lines today. A majority of the Committee also opens up to assess measures to ensure wider coverage for UMTS after the concession requirements have been met. We already have a system in which government buys services, among other things. in the case of public purchases of services from Item Norge BA. In the future, it may be equally relevant to make use of this for telecommunications services in areas where there is no basis for commercial expansion. A few words about frequencies: Frequencies are a limited resource. Those who are granted a concession are given access to this resource and are given an opportunity to make money on its management. Therefore, we consider it reasonable to impose a fee for the disposal of frequencies. It would be natural to see fixed networks and mobile networks in the context. Together, these will form the broadband network in Norway and contribute to fulfilling the digital rights of all people that many of us are engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1160	Inner. S. No 146 for 1999-2000 shows that the content of the message on access to the mobile network and the introduction of a third generation mobile communications system have been implemented by the central government. The working party, the center part and the SV make up the multiples at important points in the configuration. The central government's goal was that Norway should be in the forefront when it comes to price, quality and ability to use new telecommunications services. These objectives have also been taken into account in previous debates, for example. in the debate on St.meld. No 34 for 1998-99. The total price level of mobile services in Norway is evenly lower compared to other countries. Of course, there are variations if we look at the individual elements of the cost. The fact that the mobile market is characterised by the fact that two actors have followed each other when it comes to service provision, subscription classes and price levels may have resulted in some of the producer prices being too high. I am pleased that there is a comprehensive committee that draws on its value for future value creation in the ICT sector. ICT will be of great value to enterprises and households in the future. ICT will play a major role in reducing distance costs. It is therefore very important that all parts of the country have access to these services and at the most equal price – yes, I would say at the same price. We have a relatively good coverage of telecommunications services in the country today when we think of a percentage of the inhabitants. Even if the coverage is above the minimum level of concessions, it is worth noting that there are still large areas that do not have coverage. The majority also say in the committee comments that it is desirable that the coverage be increased further. An important question in the message is whether virtual operators should be required to access the mobile network. I am glad that the majority in the committee will not open up to virtual operators. Of course, I see that, for example. Several actors may be involved in the price reduction. But for me, the arguments against imposing opening for virtual operators are stronger than the arguments for, for example. opening to virtual operators may result in reduced investment incentives for existing and new mobile operators. Opening requirements for virtual operators can make it less attractive to deploy new mobile networks. Third generation mobile phone, UMTS, will open up for a number of new services, such as: can combine images, text, speech and video. In principle, the concept implies that users should have access to personal communication anywhere and at any time. The central party supports the message that four UMTS concessions should be awarded in Norway and that there should be competition. We also support the fact that coverage and expansion should be an important criterion. If there is to be a real bidding competition in which many actors can participate, the entry threshold should not be too high. At the same time, it is important to ensure that concession requirements become an important step towards the objective of nationwide network coverage. I am therefore pleased that the majority in the Committee has opened up so that the minimum requirements of the call can be reinforced so that coverage beyond the eight cities on which the proposal in the message was made can be required. In my view, it is also important that, as the Committee as a whole says, demands are made for a progress plan over the concession period, which is proposed for five years. With the expansion that will come as a result of the concession award, large parts of the country will not be able to expand their own UMTS networks. As pointed out by the Committee, upgrading the GSM system will be an important complement in areas without UMTS coverage. Therefore, national roaming on existing GSM networks will be an appropriate means of providing the best possible service access. But even with an upgrade, the GSM system will not be able to meet the requirements and expectations of users and businesses for mobile phone services. It is therefore important to note that the majority believe that the ministry should assess the public purchase of services after the actors have fulfilled the concession requirements for development. I have noticed that the Progress Party and the Right believe it is uncertain whether it is permitted under EEA law that the State buys UMTS services where it is not commercially viable, and after the operators have fulfilled the development requirements. After the information I have, it would be entirely possible – and within the framework of the legislation – to implement public support for network development. As far as I know, there is also discussion about implementing such schemes in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1184	It is important to stress that despite difficult geography and small and scattered populations in Norway, we have been at the forefront in the development and use of telecommunications services and that we also have a low price level. This is what we want to keep going. Like the representative Gard Folkvord, I want to give the old Telecom and later Telenor the reward for the effort. We agree on the objectives: to have high-quality telecommunications services at the lowest possible prices for the whole country. However, there may well be some contradictions between the objectives, and the instruments may help to weaken some objectives in relation to others. There is not least a possible conflict between the lowest prices and the fact that it will benefit the whole country. That conflict lies not least in the question of the obligation of virtual operator access to the network. It may increase competition but, at the same time, act as a disincentive to network owners’ developmental ambitions. For SV, the whole country’s approach is important. Therefore, we do not support access requirements. That is why we also agree with the majority's statement that the seas around mobile operators have met the concession requirements in terms of coverage, and we are not satisfied. We who travel a good part of the districts experience too often to be outside the coverage area. It's not just a matter of being within the coverage where you live, but also where you move. That's one of the points about cell phone. Several have mentioned that the mobile phones of representatives are now located in a museum. I want to warn you a little bit about technology fanaticism. I think a lot of users, including big business representatives, are doing well with a mobile phone that can be used for standard voice telephony, and I would like a response service. Because it's not like everyone's going to throw themselves over the latest at all times. You don't need that. I'm also pleased that we seem to get to grips with the next generation of mobile phones, UMTS. One thought that has, however, struck me is that we distribute a limited resource, actually a natural resource – because there is scarcity of frequency – without charging for it. I see that Telenor has to pay on the world markets to let go. Three GSM 1800 licences have been issued in Turkey – the minimum price for getting one is $5.5 billion. So once you have three and that's at least $16.5 billion. That's a lot of money! In the United Kingdom, it may seem that the state is charging more than DKK 100 billion on licenses, while we're distributing it for free. Obviously, I see the point that users will have to pay the bill. But at a time when there is a state effort to get the whole country on broadband – large investments that we can’t take little on the responsibility of the telecom operators – the auctioning of concessions could be a source of funding. It's usually the way in the real world that not all arguments are in the same scale, so we haven't suggested going in for the auction principle, but I also see arguments for it. When we don't, it's important that we at least premise that the actors that offer the best rates of coverage and rate of expansion are at the forefront of the queue by allocation – for the sake of putting the whole country into service. As we in SV do not have any particular comments, but are part of a majority position that several others have already justified, I see no reason to spend my entire speaking time repeating what others have said. I just want to end by saying that I have a very good sense of the representative Ringstad said about pricing policy in the area of telecommunications services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1207	Norway is one of the leading countries for telecommunications. There's a big deal in Stortinget that this position we have to facilitate to keep going. The fact that the whole country has high-quality telecommunications services at the lowest possible price is a decisive requirement for employment and economic development. For districts, a good ICT offer will help reduce the distance constraints. It is important that the framework conditions and the solutions to be found support these objectives. Today, when access to mobile networks is granted to operators other than those granted a concession to establish and operate such networks, it is a matter of requiring access. This is motivated by the desire to improve competition. In the mobile network today, the prices of services are among the lowest in the world. Today we have a cover of 94 pst. by the inhabitants. Even if the concession requirements are met, there is a relatively large area that is still not covered. So it's a desire to increase the coverage. The left-hand side sees advantages by requiring web owners to skip to virtual operators. However, the Left supports the Government's view that one should not impose such access at the present time, as this may reduce investment motivation for existing and new mobile operators, and may delay the deployment of the next generation of mobile networks. It has been difficult to find good cost-sharing models between companies, this is not a Norwegian phenomenon. In other European countries, access has also been delayed. Although both Denmark and Sweden are now making changes in their laws, these are not clear. In both countries, one states that access should be granted to the extent that it is technically possible or capacity is available. This may be more similar to the resale of mobile services than free roaming. As you know, both mobile operators have given access to other operators online. This has better provision of mobile services. The left wants a development that improves and further develops the total service provision. Should one with today's framework conditions not have such a desired development, we need to reconsider the framework. It is a strong wish that the third concession for non-developed GSM 1800 networks will be expanded as soon as possible. This will also help to provide better services and to improve competition. In the case of the second case, the introduction of a third generation mobile communications system in Norway, there is a large deal in the Committee that the concessions should be published immediately and that the concession obligation should be laid down for those wishing to provide this service. Since there is a great deal of uncertainty about how the technical solutions will be, it is important that the regulatory framework for concessions is technology-neutral. There is still considerable uncertainty about several important factors in UMTS development. It is therefore difficult to set minimum requirements for coverage and expansion speed in the start-up phase. The Committee has seen the development of third-generation networks in the six largest cities – plus Tromsø and Bodø – as a minimum. This may be too low. We still think this is right, because through the bidding competition, such an extension rate and scope can be used as the criterion for awarding the four concessions. A multiplicity is required to charge for the disposal of frequencies. So it's not going to be free. Left thinks that an offer contest is the most likely way of awarding concessions. The degree of coverage and the rate of expansion will then be an important award criterion. In order to make the best use of the network, the Left goes in order to ensure that those who receive a concession also have access to national roaming on existing GSM networks. The left considers it important to link this to a mandatory development plan for UMTS infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1235	Norway today appears to be one of the most advanced telecommunications countries in the world, with a modern and well-developed infrastructure and with a wide range of services of high quality and at low prices. In view of our natural and population constraints, the development we have had in this sector is impressive. Information and communication technologies play an increasingly important role in society and industry. ICT is now one of the main sources of innovation, efficiency and restructuring in all forms of business and management. Mobile communications have been one of the strongest growth areas in the communications market. The development of the mobile sector in general and GSM in particular may be appropriate to illustrate how new technologies can contribute to increased value creation and employment in new areas. Ensuring the main telecommunications policy objectives in a situation of open international competition raises, not least, new regulatory challenges, which we are witnessing in the Single European Act that we are addressing today. In Norway, there has been a broad welcome on the step-by-step liberalisation that resulted in the opening up of competition in all areas of the telecommunications market from 1 January 1998. The development of Norwegian telecommunications policy has been characterised by a willingness to find balanced and practical solutions — and not principles for the sake of principles. The big message that is now being processed is, as I see it, the result of the same setting: that we want to put long-term results in the form of increasingly better and cheaper telecommunications services to consumers and businesses across the country in focus. The management of the telecommunications market is now ensured by general rules and individual concessions, such as: has the task of ensuring that households, businesses and public enterprises throughout the country have a good choice of high-quality and lowest-price telecommunications services and of facilitating effective competition. Other important elements are ensuring equal access to limited resources, as well as safeguarding consumer rights, privacy and essential security requirements in the telecommunications network. As mentioned at the outset, Norway’s geography, topography, climate and population patterns give us basically higher development costs than countries we usually compare with. Nevertheless, Norway is today one of the countries with the largest proportion of the mobile phone population. Compared to other countries, we also have a very low price level and a good range of telecommunications services across the country. This development has taken place despite the fact that in Norway there have been only two competing mobile operators with their own networks. From some quarters it has been pointed out that there is not enough competition in all parts of the Norwegian mobile market. However, I do not agree with the Right and Advance Party in their characteristics of the telecommunications market and regulatory development. I believe it is important to put in place a perspective that takes account of developments both in the short and long term, and which does not only aim to achieve short-term cuts in prices and margins. For the treatment of St.prp. No 70 for 1995-96, on the winding-up of remaining exclusive rights in the telecommunications sector, Stortinget agreed that it should also be open to mobile operators without their own network, so-called service providers. However, the way in which such service providers are to access the existing mobile networks is an issue where it is important to find a solution that provides the right balance between increased competition and sufficient motivation for investment in existing and new mobile networks. The clear starting point on the part of the Government is that it is preferable for agreements in this area to be concluded on a commercial basis. As the government sees it, it doesn't make sense to oblige operators with significant market power to provide access for so-called virtual mobile operators – and it is with great satisfaction that I notice the broad upswing in Stortinget on this issue. However, this does not prevent operators from finding such or similar solutions through commercial negotiations. Recently, in the light of commercial negotiations, operators have just come up with resale agreements. Mobile operators without their own network have concluded agreements with existing mobile operators for the resale of their products. It is my clear position that regulatory measures should only be put in place where the market mechanisms themselves do not find sufficiently good solutions. As you know, in 1998, Telia was awarded a second generation mobile concession, DCS 1800. Due to uncertainties related to access requirements for virtual mobile operators and the merger work between Telenor and Telia ceased Telia’s development. Following an overall assessment, the Ministry of Transport has now decided that Telia should retain the concession and in this context have granted an extension of the extension periods. In my assessments, I have focused on finding solutions that could contribute to the achievement of overall telecommunications policy objectives. In this context, particular attention is paid to the rapid establishment of a third generation mobile network in Norway and to the introduction of a mobile operator capable of promoting competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market. I will also be able to assess in more detail whether there will be sufficient available frequencies for a possible fourth generation mobile communications network in Norway. There is a close link between the issue of access and the current situation, namely the award of four nationwide concessions for a new third generation mobile communications system, known as 3G. This new mobile system will open up a number of new, advanced mobile telecommunications services. Several services that previously could only be offered over the fixed network will be offered on the mobile network with the new mobile system. However, considerable uncertainty is linked to several important factors in the development of third-generation mobile systems. In addition, there are significant costs associated with the development of such networks in Norway. This means that it is not realistic in the first phase to expect development outside urban areas. There is therefore an important balance between the availability of these services and the price of services. Tenders competition will be an appropriate allocation mechanism for 3G in Norway. Coverage and rate of expansion will be important selection criteria in the tendering process, but not the only ones. The concession notice will require a 3G network to be built within five years in Stor-Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim, Stavanger, Drammen, Kristiansand, Tromsø and Bodø. In addition, coverage and rate of expansion will be important selection criteria in the competitive tendering process, so that concessions may require coverage in addition to the minimum requirement if operators have offered greater coverage in their concession applications. In order to ensure that operators have satisfactory compliance with the concession terms, progressive development will be required, i.e.: that concessionaires are checked in the course of the development process. If it is desirable to cover third-generation mobile communications services in addition to the requirements laid down in the concession and in addition to what is commercially profitable, the Government will consider public purchases of 3G services in unprofitable areas. Public purchases of 3G services after commercial expansion are unlikely to distort or threaten to distort competition in the area of 3G services. However, this has to be considered at that time in order to ensure that, where appropriate, public purchases of 3G services are in line with EEA legislation. The government will inform the Storting appropriately about its assessments of any public purchases. I believe that the use of competitive tendering where coverage and deployment rates are important selection criteria, as well as the possibility of public procurement of services in unprofitable areas, is an appropriate procedure for achieving a fair and maximum distribution of third-generation mobile communications services. In order to achieve a level playing field between holders of 3G concessions who do not already have their own networks and those with existing second-generation mobile networks, it would be right and important for third-generation mobile providers to have access to second-generation mobile systems through national roaming. This could contribute to more effective competition. However, by requiring gradual expansion in the concessions, the authorities will be able to ensure that the 3G operators build their own network and not just use the existing GSM networks. As regards the general right of drive, it will be maintained. However, the special delegated power of transmission will be assessed in respect of meeting equivalence and non-discrimination requirements, and any suspension will cover all actors. Now that a broad majority in the UK has endorsed the Government's proposal for a framework for third-generation mobile systems, it will be a high priority task in the Ministry of Transport to get these mobile concessions lighted up and allocated. We aim to ensure that the call can be made in the course of the month of May. The Government attaches great importance to a long-term and predictable telecommunications policy. I would also like to emphasise that in national regulation, we have put great emphasis on achieving technology-neutral regulation – where it has been possible, we have gone beyond most other countries on some points, especially mobile. However, technological and market developments require regular regulatory review for adjustments. In the EU, the so-called 1999 Review is under way, i.e. a comprehensive review of the regulatory framework in the telecommunications sector with a view to adapting it to future technology and market developments. We will continue to actively monitor this process and also try to influence the legislation to take account of Norwegian circumstances as much as possible. Together with our experience with the legislation so far and the facts both the majority and the minority have pointed out, this will form the basis for our own review of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1289	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5. [[Fotation, see page 2825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1303	The majority of the Economic and Social Committee has supported all the proposals of the Department as set out in St. pp. No 41 for 1999-2000. This implies the agreement of the State to purchase Raufoss ASA’s shares in Nammo AS for 340 million. kr, and that it opens up that the state’s ownership interest in Raufoss ASA will be reduced to 34 pst. in the case of a subsequent issue in that company. Furthermore, the Ministry is given the opportunity to adjust its ownership interest in Nammo AS in the range 34-51 pst. in the case of future issues or listings or restructurings in the international defence industry from which that company may be affected. The suspension has been submitted to the Defence Committee which has assessed in particular the preparedness aspects. This Committee has joined the Ministry of Defence's assessments that what is being dealt with here is not objectionable. Of the parties to the nutrition committee, only the Progress Party opposes the acquisition by the State of the shares of Raufoss ASA in Nammo. Right wants the state to quickly sell down to 34 pst. ownership interest in Nammo. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party want the State to sell completely out of Raufoss ASA after the planned issue has been made. The examination and conclusions of the Committee must be seen in the light of the acute need of Raufoss ASA for new capital, in particular in the context of the comprehensive car hire contract with General Motors Europa. It has been informed to the Committee that the sale of shares enables the company to sign the contract and initiate the necessary investments. Without rapid and positive treatment in Stortinget, this possibility will be lost. Due to the time pressure, the Committee has chosen to finalise the suspension before the announced due diligence reports are available. The position of the Committee is thus based on the information which the Ministry has been able to provide before the initiation of those studies. I think it's right to clarify it from Stortingen's pulpit. After the sale of shares, Raufoss ASA will appear as a civil enterprise, where the defence company Nammo only becomes a good neighbour. It is to hope that there will still be close cooperation for the benefit of both companies and the Raufoss community. The size of the population has, through consultations and by other means, become aware of the considerable concern at Raufoss about the reorganisations that are now taking place. In particular, employees have responded to plans to shift the production of small-calibre ammunition from Raufoss to Sweden and Finland. I have a lot of understanding for that. I believe it would be beneficial for Norway to have a decisive influence on the exact phase we are now in by buying shares and agreeing with the other owners in Nammo. It is a majority within the Committee which has expressed such a wish. Regardless of any change on the ownership side, it is highly desirable that the production conversions in Nammo be reviewed in order to maintain the most profitable productions where proof of the best job can be found. There is reason to believe that the structural changes in the defence industry will continue, so that in a few years' time Nammo at Raufoss will also be judged by the management of a much larger company. In view of such a situation, it is important that Nammo Raufoss retain productions that are the best, while at the same time being able to keep up with new products. The majority of the Committee has stressed that it is essential for Nammo as a group for the profitability of the company that the different productions are set out to document the best results. Furthermore, the Committee stressed that it was assumed that the State would be an active owner in Nammo. It should be unnecessary to underline. Being an active owner means for the benefit of Norway and for the benefit of Raufoss. Raufoss enterprises are large and important both locally and nationally. The share of exports is large. Today's decisions are a continuation of a development where the most profitable businesses are distinguished from the part that produces defence material. It is important that what is done has progress and security for the workplace as the most important objective. Reduced State participation must not become a measure in itself. I think it's right to signal that the Center Party will contribute to security by maintaining the state exposure that is now indicated. At the next crossroads, I hope it is not a matter of urgency that determines the outcome of such relationships. Finally, I wish the Raufoss companies good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1331	Today's case of the state's involvement in Raufoss ASA and Nammo AS is a very important case for several parties, especially for the two companies, Raufoss ASA and Nammo AS, but also for the Raufoss community and the state, which now become the largest owner in both companies. The board of Raufoss ASA makes it clear that the Raufoss group has a significant investment need for conversion and further development. In this context, it is established that the only realistic option is that Raufoss ASA sells its shareholding in Nammo AS to the State. The uncertainty associated with the government’s loan to Raufoss will also be eliminated with today’s treatment. This in turn will provide the basis for an issue of the company’s share capital against current owners, but perhaps also against new owners. Such an issue could be launched already in the current year and will further improve the company's situation. What in my opinion also strengthens the work on conversion in both companies is that a few weeks ago they have been given the same chairman. This will make it easier to see the development of these companies in the context. Such conversion and restructuring are often seen as a danger to jobs and the future existence of companies. Conversion and restructuring are not just a threat; it also offers new and often great opportunities for progress. This also applies to Raufoss and Nammo. Raufoss has got a big contract for the car industry. This contract can just mean a further development of Raufoss in a positive direction. We want this new production to remain in Norway, and then the proposed capital increase in today's case is absolutely necessary. Nammo also has great opportunities in the future with its activities at Raufoss. As I read the case papers, both the heart and brain are in Nammo on Raufoss, and it's at Raufoss that the best economic results are. Here is a high level of knowledge and a long tradition for the production of ammunition. This is not least the case for intermediate calibre, and there are good opportunities here for deliveries to several countries in Europe. There is clearly a high level of competition in ammunition in Europe, and it appears that major European suppliers become home suppliers to several countries. So each country no longer has to produce all ammunition within its borders. This is also partly due to the fact that the majority of the Committee is in favour of the state increasing its ownership of Nammo to 51 p.m. Now let's see the possibilities for Raufoss ASA and Nammo AS to become two strong companies with robust and solid productions in Norway. Companies are fully qualified in the first class. In order to bring about new development, resources are needed, and in the first place, the state is the only possible source of capital. This will enable more capital to be brought into the companies in the next round. An active role of the State as an owner in this phase will also strengthen the necessary transformation and restructuring efforts. The Labour Party supports the majority proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1352	Once again, Raufoss has become a matter for Stortinget. The company has received a number of increases in its share capital through government appropriations. At the beginning of the 1990s, there was no longer any political will to provide more State resources. Private capital was then accepted as the second best solution and as a necessity if the business and jobs were to be secured. This resulted in a partial privatisation and stock exchange listing of Raufoss. A privatisation solution for the company was aired and discussed as early as 1981 in connection with Willoch’s minority government’s bombing of the merger plans between Raufoss AS and Årdal and Sunndal Works. The tradition faith is the question brought to the ground under non-socialist governments and just as quickly buried again when the Workers' Party has occupied the government offices. It was therefore surprising that the Workers' Party joined a partial privatisation solution for Raufoss AS at Stortinget's handling of the case in 1990. The party had previously been opposed to such privatisation of state enterprises. This was not only a traditional industrial activity, but also the defence equipment produced. It was equally surprising that the trade union and its employees accepted this solution. They took a stand of a practical and non-ideological nature and found themselves in the situation. Not far back in time would one consider a yes to privatisation from a LO club to be as bad as if the priest banned in the church. We note that even though the company has gone well for periods and dividends have been distributed, the company has for a number of years been characterised by weak annual profit, strained liquidity and limited opportunities to borrow from new projects. It is obvious that the state's involvement in the RA has not given the necessary results with sufficient financial freedom of action; it has not completely succeeded. Raufoss ASA has recently reached an agreement with General Motors Europa, which is known as the gold edge, and if it is realised will mean a large investment in aluminium components for cars. In order to implement the GM orders, it will be necessary to invest in the hundreds of millions of people, and call on the state again to solve the company’s investment problems. The Progress Party will oppose the Government's proposal on this because we do not want to continue to support yesterday's solutions with government appropriations that pose a significant financial risk to the public. On the other hand, we want the state to dispose of all its shares in the company. Yeah, why not? We cannot find any basis for the state to keep the shares. RA is a modern production company operating in a market similar to other Norwegian companies. In addition, the authorities have, through the legislation, full control of the production of ammunition and exports. The Progress Party believes that full privatisation is preferable. Experience with this from countries it is natural to compare with one another shows that it has brought about a completely necessary change at all levels. It turns out that new competent owners not only contribute to the injection of fresh capital but contribute to a high pace of development. Keywords will be the employment of strong, commercialised leaders in peak positions, tight control of costs and increased productivity, strict management and employee requirements, greater encouragement of efforts, but also the same consequences for failures and incompetence as in other private businesses. Privatisation is, of course, no absolute guarantee against misinvestment. On the other hand, we should have learned from the painful experiences the state has done as an industrialist. We have a very long loss list as a result of many years of state-owned industrial travel. I would like briefly to touch on RA's involvement in the Nordic ammunition company Nammo AS. The development of these defence activities is marked by considerable uncertainty. It is quite clear that we will succeed in what is intended, namely the restructuring and thus the realisation of the value creation potential of a Nordic ammunition company. We find it unfortunate, therefore, that the State commits itself through an acquisition of the RA's shareholding in the company. It should not be a public task to pursue speculative business activities in the ammunition industry. There is a clear trend in the restructuring process currently under way in the European defence industry that government ownership is being reduced. Among other things, we see: in France, the United Kingdom and Spain, examples of a reduction or liquidation of the country’s role as owner. In addition, it is necessary to recall that there is no defence policy justification for a State involvement in Nammo AS. If the production of ammunition currently taking place at the Raufoss division is liquidated or moved to other countries, the Defence may conclude agreements with alternative suppliers in NATO-qualified producer countries. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1371	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1374	The author of the motion for a resolution also made a statement on the Right's position and our two proposals. While I remember it, I take up the proposals No. 2 and 3 included in the setting. When the Right in its proposal No. 3 goes in to reduce the country's ownership in Nammo to 34 pst. – and when we are at all in favour of ownership in Nammo – it is done on the basis of a defence policy justification. I refer in that context to the letter from the Ministry of Defence v/the Council of State. In the case of Raufoss ASA, I have to say that part of what has been said in the posts we have heard is interesting. The last post from Hedstrom was an expected and good post. I wish he had said something similar when we dealt with the IT-Fornebu case, but I understand that the Progress Party does not have as much faith in ammunition as in IT. When I hear the chairman of the committee, Morten Lund, and to the extent that the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, I remember that double communication continues – as well as when you talk about Hydro and Hydro Seafood and what the Council of State should do and not do. The proposition clearly states the reasons for which the State and the Ministry of Economic Affairs intend to take on the role of owner and shareholder. It is clearly defined in the proposition, but when Lund says that ownership is to be exercised ‘for the benefit of Norway and for the benefit of Raufoss’, he said as far as I can see, not that of the Ministry, namely that one is a shareholder on a commercial basis under the Share Act. This is a listed company. I don't think we need to exercise more whispers in ear-ownership. And I think it would have been even more honest to say that here the state is inside as an ordinary owner, you want to manage it according to the principles that apply to the exercise of ownership in listed companies. I can't see why the historical rationale that was present for establishing Raufoss ASA, state ownership, is going to continue after you end up with what was the very reason for the establishment. And now, when you go to the business of other private companies in Norway, namely aluminium production of parts for the automotive industry, I can't see that the reasons that were there originally are there anymore. For this reason, the Right wants to be sold out of this civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1387	Ansgar Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1390	I am pleased that the day for this treatment in Stortinget has finally come. The whole Raufoss community has been waiting for the last Minister of Industry to come up with this matter, but it lasted until 12 hours for the Bondevik government before it was presented to the Stortinget. I will commend the Committee for urgent procedure when the matter first came, and for a generally good attitude. The whole community at Raufoss is built around the factory. A one-sided industrial site like this is very vulnerable. Therefore, it is important that the State, as the main shareholder, assumes responsibility for important actions and facilitates the necessary capital for further industrial development and job security – yes, I would say there is a necessity for the existence of the whole society, which includes several municipalities around the enterprise. RA will appear after this treatment as a pure civil industrial group where the main searchlight is directed towards the automotive industry, but also towards water, gas and composites, which are important product areas on Raufoss. There are good prospects in these areas, and the majority of the majority in the UK today will give the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade a share issue as outlined in the proposal will provide the company with development opportunities. At the same time, it is of great importance that the State retains at least 34 pst. in order to be able to follow further developments. It is important that the results of the competences, research and development that have taken place at Raufoss lead to civil production and further development of the site. Defence production, formerly Raufoss Ammunition factories, is entirely part of the relatively new company Nammo, which Raufoss has until today owned 45 pst. off. The remainder is divided by 27.5 pst. in each of the Swedish Celsius and Finnish Patria. There is a need for a more decisive management of Nammo, and the board of directors of RA, in particular the employees’ representatives on the board of directors, are concerned that the Norwegian State should have a majority share in the company. The Aktionary Agreement could have been better, especially in view of the way in which the Board of Directors is represented, and the employees' representation, which is worse than under the Share Act. The issue of this lies in the subject of Business Democracy and, as far as I know, is not yet settled. I hope and believe that this treatment will ensure the employees representation in line with Norwegian legislation in this Norwegian company. It would also have been important if the new board of directors had dealt with the restructuring plan. In any case, I am pleased with the leadership given by the majority in the nomination, that it is essential for the company's profitability that the various productions are placed where the best results can be documented. The whole Raufoss community, with its top employees, has been committed over time to maintaining the production of small arms ammunition on Raufoss, a production that is clearly profitable. I hope that the management of the company in the future will provide profitability so that further development can be achieved and thus provide jobs. I am also pleased that the Committee has highlighted the importance of ensuring Norway's access to NATO-qualified ammunition also in crisis situations. The ongoing negotiations between the defence and foreign authorities of the three countries are important in order to establish a Supply Security Agreement. Then I would like to mention that the Norwegian state established the business at Raufoss in 1896 because we could go to war with the Swedes, while today, 100 years later, we are merging our defence production. It shows a positive development and that we live in a peaceful corner of the world. But still Norwegian governance in the company is important. I put my trust in the department, corporate management and administration to do a good job and be able to get to 51 pst. ownership of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1416	On March 3rd, the previous government announced St.prp. No 41 for 1999-2000 on the involvement of the State in Raufoss ASA and Nammo AS. Our government has found it right to follow up this proposal, and we are pleased that it has also gained broad support in the nutrition committee. The state assumes considerable ownership responsibility as a majority shareholder in Raufoss ASA. A total of 340 million. kr poses a risk, but we believe that it could in the long term increase the country's shareholder values in the companies concerned. The alternative would have been to be passive and let Raufoss ASA try to save itself through the difficult situation the group is now in. However, this would have been beyond future contracts and thus beyond the workplaces of the Raufoss group. Then it was better to try to secure the values with an active attitude. Raufoss ASA will become a company trading on civil markets. Future growth should take place by bringing equity into the market. In this context, the State is set to reduce its ownership of Raufoss ASA down to 34 pst. However, Raufoss ASA will also need stable and predictable ownership in the future, and I am not currently prepared for the state to drop further down, as the Right fraction suggests. The purchase of Raufoss shares in Nammo AS gives the government shares in a new independent company in the Nordic ammunition industry. With the positive involvement of the Swedish and Finnish shareholders, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Raufoss ASA, Karl Glad, has already been elected as new Chairperson of Nammo. As a Norwegian shareholder, the State wants to be a driver in order to implement the structural changes needed to realise the synergies and improved joint outcomes that were behind the company’s establishment. Nammo will face major challenges in the future in a restructured and largely privatised European defence industry, and we hope that the State can contribute to the success of the company in this market. I notice that the majority of the Industry Committee is asking the Ministry of Industry and Trade to work to increase its share to 51 pst. of the shares in Nammo AS and have a strategic plan for the development of Nammo AS, which will ensure the company a good development in the future. We assume that the board follows closely. For my part, however, I do not now see it as the task of the State to assess which type of ammunition will be produced in which country. This is a clear commercial assessment of the company’s management and administration. I also believe that if the company finds it necessary at a later stage to strengthen its equity in order to continue to invest, this must initially be something for all the three owners to participate in. However, I also understand the Committee's comments that if our Swedish or Finnish co-owners do not have the opportunity to participate, the State may have the power to take such an uplift on its own, thereby increasing its ownership up to 51 pst. In the short term, selling in Nammo seems to be of little relevance to the state, but the European defence industry is constantly being restructured, and it may eventually be appropriate to open up to other owners as part of strategic cooperation. As can be seen from the shareholder agreement, the parties also agree to assess the listing and possible distribution of the shares in Nammo AS within 24 months of the conclusion of the agreement, and it may also be appropriate to adjust the ownership interest of the country in such a context. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Committee has found it possible to deal with the matter as quickly and effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13.ana.ud1724e1431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately up. [[Fotation, see page 2825]] The President therefore proposes that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 6:00 p.m. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
