ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e27	From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for medical leave from the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson from 6 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Olaf Gedrem, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e47	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e52	I suggest Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e57	Aud Blattmann is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e62	On behalf of Øyvind Vaksdal and myself, I would like to propose the appointment of an independent investigation commission to carry out an examination of all aspects of the treatment of the former pioneers in the North Sea, with particular emphasis on clarifying and identifying the possible responsibilities of the authorities for this, and to carry out an assessment of whether the pioneer divers and their survivors are entitled to upliftment and compensation from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e88	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Grete Knudsen State Council Jørgen Kosmo State Council Anne Kristin Sydnes The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We will then start with the first main questions, from the representative Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e107	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration a question. The working party and the centre parties were united in Stortinget just before Christmas when the new rental law was passed. The formulations of the law, which these parties agreed on, are clear to the glass. In short, they mean that companies can hire as many employees as they want, for up to one year, without restrictions. In retrospect, however, there has been a strange discussion about the understanding of the law that I believe is not the basis for. To Today's Business, the Minister of Labour and Administration says: ‘I want to work to ensure that the interpretation of the law is in line with LO’s vision.’ Should not the Council of State rather work for the interpretation of the law to be in line with the view of the Storting, and with what is actually formulated in the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e121	Of course, the practice of the law should be consistent with the decisions and interpretations of the Stortinget as a legislative authority. On the basis of the legislative changes adopted by Stortinget, a rather comprehensive compromise was reached between the organisations both on the employer’s side and on the employee’s side in Norway. I have registered that there is disagreement with regard to the interpretation of when the obligation to discuss the contract with the employees' trust selected occurrences. We will therefore ensure that the issue is presented to the legislative authority in relation to how the law should be understood and also how it should be applied in the future, whether it is necessary to propose concrete legislative changes in order for the law to comply with what appears to have been the reason for the decision by the majority of the population. We're going to have to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e126	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and, to the extent that it is clear, that the Council of State will come back to the Grand Duchy if, in his view, there is doubt about the wording. In my opinion, there is absolutely no doubt, the wording of the law is clear. I just wanted to inform the Council of State that if he based a different understanding than what the actual wording of the law is, there will not be a majority in the Grand Duchy for the change he will then seek.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e131	I note that the representative of Steensnæs and the former representative of Storing Sylvia Brustad has different views on the basis of the compromise that led to that decision. There is no other way to clarify this issue than to resubmit the question to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e136	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e139	I have a question for the Minister of Industry. In the Evening Post of March 18th d.a. it stated a phrase which reads as follows: ‘Minister of Economic Affairs Grete Knudsen will be head of a new superministerial department for both industry, trade, research, IT and telecommunications.’ On the same day, today's Economy brought the same news under the heading "Superminister on the Stock Exchange". My question concerns how responsibility for research policy in this country will be borne by the new government. More specifically, where will the responsibility of the Norwegian Research Council and the co-ordination of the Government's research policy across departments, which has so far been with the Minister of Church, Education and Research, be in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e153	Now I assume that how to organize the government's work is for the government, but it is absolutely right that in connection with the government statement and in the statements that came later from Prime Minister Stoltenberg, it was informed that more research would be transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The reason for this is that we need to link research much closer to businesses, because it is really the most under-represented nutritional research. What this will look like is now working on under the direction of the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e159	I am aware that the internal organisation of the government's work is the sovereign responsibility of the government, with which the government has nothing to do. However, it is noteworthy this time that the accession of the Government has announced a rather radical change, while now three weeks have passed without any further information as to what this new division of responsibilities will look like. I have recorded that there is considerable concern in Research Norway because there is a ambiguity about this, and at my discretion it is highly desirable that both the Stortinget and Research Norway are soon informed about how responsibility conditions will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e164	I can promise the representative that it will be resolved quickly, and otherwise, the government will of course follow up on the offensive for which a total increase has come, namely to raise research in a different way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e169	The President has some doubts about the need for follow-up questions, but Petter Løvik will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e172	From the Right side, we have always pointed to the importance of getting a strong increase in research, and now parts of this is going to be to the Knudsen Ministry of State. I have a couple of small questions about this. The one thing is: can we expect the Government in the revised national budget to present a binding and concrete plan for stepping up Norwegian research in the future, and that it will be followed up with promises? We have a little bit of different experience with the obligations that we've had in the past. The other one is associated with the organisation itself. As the representative of Wage, I am a little surprised that this has not been clarified, even though it is the government's area to clarify how this should be organised. But could it be true that the coordination, that is, the research department in the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research, is being transferred to the Ministry of Industry? Is it one of the options that you're working on?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e181	Some of the research is already in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is a very large contributor to the current Research Council, which also carries out basic research – an area in which the Stortinget has been clear must be increased and, in particular, the role of universities in basic research must be strengthened. With regard to the follow-up to business policy itself, the Hervik Committee is now in consultation, and we are trying to push it forward so that we can present it as a separate matter to the Stortinget as soon as possible. What we can do with the revised national budget is hard to say right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e188	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e191	Yesterday, Torger Reve, Vice-Chancellor of the BI School of Commerce, informed of the project for which he is head – ‘A value-creating Norway’. He noted that we were the worst in Europe in terms of productivity growth, and also low in terms of innovation. He just got into this with research and development in Norwegian business, and he said that our neighboring country is far ahead of us. He pointed out that this is particularly true in the high-tech areas of Norway. Does the Council of State wish to follow this up when it comes to intensifying research and development and, in particular, to focus on industrial clusters in the high-tech areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e198	The answer to that is yes. After all, the size of information technology has been taken out as one important area of research. But what also emerged from the report that Reve presented yesterday is that we have too little knowledge in our products, and that there is too little connection between research and business. We have to take note of that, and take it seriously to get the research results out into the companies. Norway is sadly looking for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e205	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e208	I would like to ask the Minister of Labour and Administration a question. I have first and foremost registered in various newspaper articles with the desire of the Council of State to clean up and improve the efficiency of the public sector. What the Council of State indirectly says is what the Progress Party has been saying for a long time – and was partly criticized for – namely, that people will no longer find themselves being guided in their choice of well-being. It is difficult to see that the Workers' Party will have some kind of credibility in this objective. Therefore, it might be interesting to ask the Council of State what kind of progress he has in having such an efficiency achieved. Will a number of bureaucratic samples be set up over several years to create even more investigations without concrete action, or will the Council of State now make its own concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e217	A programme and ambition for the renewal of the public sector will have to affect many areas and will entail many individual decisions around the Commune-Norway, in the state, in various directorates, and some fundamental decisions to be taken by the Stortinget. I think that if we're going to get this done, we have to realize that on the part of the state, we must not rule so much of the rules and regulations. But some of these rules are governed by law. This means a legislative process in which the Stortninget is drawn in order to achieve simplification and greater opportunities for the organisation of an offer tailored to the needs of people. On the other hand, there is something that can be done. It is possible to build on the programme set up by public service agencies, strengthen them and take some initiatives centrally to get the various agencies to take this seriously. There are things that can be done relatively quickly with priorities. It is clear that we are preparing in the Government both the short-term and the long-term measures to be taken in this area, and to the extent that it is necessary to obtain political acceptance – I think that is necessary, because this also means that this house is willing to think again in relation to the way in which one normally controls part of the Municipality of Norway – there are some fundamental debates and decisions that must also be taken in the Stortinget. Of course, we have to use the time it takes to prepare this as proper matters that provide the basis for fundamental discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e227	I thank you for your answer. I register that I receive a well wrapped response – I guess I can't expect anything else either, now. But I'm trying to do another questioning. The Labour Party yesterday presented a new debate paper on social democracy in the future. Here, Tom Therkildsen, one of the prime advisers of Prime Minister Stoltenberg in previous governments, writes that he is «poor of all those who say we must stop development and think differently». According to the evening post yesterday, he also takes a strong settlement with those in the Workers' Party who talk with contempt about the market. ‘We need to actively use the market to create new solutions and to ensure efficient resource use.’ And he goes on to say, ‘We need a policy that allows for more diversity and freedom of choice. We must take a positive view of people's desire for diversity." This is, of course, like hearing the programme statements of the Progress Party. My question is: are these also the views of the Council of State on innovation and modernisation of the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e251	The Workers' Party has set up a number of investigative groups to develop topics and discussion themes necessary for future decisions to be taken at the national meeting of the autumn. This will be a very important national meeting, not just for the Norwegian Labour Party, but for the future, for development, not only in the Norwegian public sector, but in Norwegian society. I think everyone should be happy that the Workers' Party, as the leading party in this country, is taking the work so seriously that we have a number of investigative groups in place to launch different alternatives. Then it's the national meeting that's going to make decisions about what's going to be the Labour Party's policy, and then we're going to invite the Stortinget to follow us on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e258	There will be follow-up questions – Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e261	I would like to ask the Council of State an additional question in connection with the desire of the Council of State to clean up and increase the efficiency of the public sector. In an article in Our Country on March 31, 2000, the Kosmo Council of State says the following: ‘There shall be no disadvantage in being an immigrant’. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. No discrimination shall arise on grounds of race, religion or ethnic origin. But what I'm responding to in that article is the aim of the Council of State to fulfil the Government's desire to give more power to immigrants. A sample has already been set up to encourage the recruitment of immigrants into the State sector and to assist public services in the recruitment of just immigrants. Is it not the Council of State that is afraid that this genius can go wrong, when one goes in so specifically to help a group to get work in the state sector, and even more specifically in the middle management positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e272	The president might think that this was a little bit out of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e275	It's okay. I can answer that. I think the questioner has a slightly old-fashioned view of how we're going to use the valuable resource that lies in all the people who come to this country, and how we're going to develop a future Norway that allows us to make the right decisions that take into account the entire population of the country, including those with immigrant backgrounds. To get this done, I think we need to do a considerable job trying to recruit people with immigrant backgrounds in public enterprises. I think that will actually strengthen our opportunities in the future to make decisions that have a positive impact on this country's citizens. One must stop dividing the inhabitants of this country into groups. You have to try to see this as a whole, and draw alternates on the resources that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e284	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e287	I allow myself to ask this supplementary question to the Council of State: The Council of State has confirmed that he will stick to the efforts of the former government in a simpler Norway, in service offices and in transparency in administration. Can the Council confirm that work on service declarations, which are essential for citizens to feel the security of the quality of public services, will also be continued?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e294	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e299	Ågot Valle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e302	I have an additional question for the Council of State. We in SV fully support the government's desire to renew the public sector, thus creating confidence in the public sector. But we have also challenged the Labour Party government to park the idea of privatisation. Now there are different signals about what privatisation really is in the eyes of the government, at least in the eyes of the government. We would like to hear if the Council of State believes that outsourcing is the same as privatisation. Does the Council of State distance itself from the increasing use of competitive outsourcing? Does the Council not see that competitive outsourcing leads to a fragmentation of services, thus preventing people from cooperating across different sectors, and that it also leads to red tape?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e310	If some levels of government that we have decided to be responsible for some areas come to a democratic decision that in certain areas a certain number of tasks can be handled differently from what was done in the past, then of course they must have the freedom to take those decisions within the rules of democracy. There are no plans for a large-scale outsourcing of what has been considered public activity. But in the debate that is going forward towards the National Assembly of the Workers Party, there are a lot of ideas and thoughts. I think that's necessary, so that we get open processes and open discussions about how to solve the challenges of the future. And then we must constantly aim to have a welfare offer that is so well-adapted and so well-practiced that it benefits users.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e317	Vidar Kleppe - until last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e320	It is of course reassuring to hear that work with public service offices and the review of the public sector will be continued by the Kosmo Council and the Stoltenberg Government. But what I and my party, the Progress Party, are a little bit concerned about, are the more concrete and tangible things that give results. Even if you have to think in the long term, you also have to do some grip in the short term. My question to the Kosmo Council of State is, When will he start the work of decommuning the county as a separate administrative unit? I have registered that the Kosmo Council of State called for this when he was previously a staging representative. Can I count on him putting full pressure on this against the treatment at the national meeting in the Labour Party, so that we can cut out one administrative unit in Norway, which will bring great savings and allocate responsibility between the municipalities and the state in a completely different way from today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e327	I think everyone should be interested in entering into a fruitful dialogue on how many levels of government we're going to have in Norway in the future to solve the problems we're going to solve for the country's population. In the last government period of the Workers' Party, a task-sharing committee was set up, and in any case, we have to wait until this sample has submitted its proposal, before we start discussing the individual tasks and their location in the different levels of government. I believe that the representative, Mr Kleppe, can feel very confident that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party will be able to make some decisions on how to organise this in the future. I just advise the representative Kleppe to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e334	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e337	I have a question for Minister of Industry and IT Grete Knudsen about Norwegian ownership of Hydro Seafood. Party leader Jagland called for a strategy against bitwise sales of Norway. Now one wants to sell a huge part of Norway to a group that currently has its head office in the Netherlands, despite the fact that there are two equally good offers from Norwegian groupings. There have been very strong reactions to this on the Stortinget – cross-political. Also within the industry itself there have been strong reactions. One has said that this is like we should have sold oil resources in Norway to the rest of the world in the 1970s. Hydro Seafood has grown so strongly and has been given such great natural resources in confidence that Hydro thinks Norwegian. What will the Government do to ensure Norwegian ownership of Hydro Seafood and act in accordance with what Jagland and other central workers' party people have said?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e346	I assume that, based on their strategic plans, Hydro, as the reputable group it is, has made its assessments and come into being, based on the core areas they believe it is right for the group to invest in, that they will sell out a part, and that at the same time they have assessed any buyers according to their competence, their ability to develop and their ability to research. But the government's position with Hydro's possible sales will come at the time that we are going to go through under the acquisition law whether everything has gone right – whether here is the slaughter of the company, how the employees have looked at the whole situation, etc. It will, after any agreement has been concluded, take from one to two months before there is a matter for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e353	When one is going to deal with this matter on the basis of the law we have, both breeding law and acquisition law, I assume that the Government will follow up what is now said that the Government will be the servants of the people and listen to the will of the people. There's a lot of anxiety around the country about this. People don't want food production along our coast to be controlled by foreign groups. They want state ownership to benefit Norway, and therefore the competence of aquaculture has been developed here with us and should be for our benefit. In my opinion, the government must react in this matter. If not, the race will be set to flag the rest of the industry as well. We need a lot of local goodwill in terms of the aquaculture industry and in terms of releasing new sites in the years to come, so that the industry will be as big as we think it can be, and the local goodwill I think will be less if the applications for sites come from London or Zurich. Is the Council of State in doubt about what the people will, and is the will of the people still most important to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e364	The government will go through the different laws that apply to this matter, when there is a matter for the Government. It may be the Breeding Act, and, in the case of the department that I manage, it may be the acquisition law. But let me also say at the same time on a very fundamental basis that Norway does not impose discrimination against non-residents versus Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e369	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e372	It has been announced today that Hydro has entered into an obliging sales agreement with Nutreco, which means that this case has come much closer to a treatment in the Ministry of Industry than it might have been too soon back. I notice that the Minister of Industry places emphasis on Hydro's strategic plans, and I agree with that, so far the size should not interfere with Hydro's own strategic plans. But what the Storting and the Government are most likely to interfere, are the strategic plans for the nation we are set to lead. And when Hydro wants to sell such an important piece of Norwegian business and Norwegian food growth without making any sense about it, it's inevitable. My question to the Minister of Industry is: When Hydro wants to sell, shouldn't the Norwegian government have been much more active, even by virtue of its ownership of Hydro, in order to ensure that the ringing effects benefit Norwegian society and Norwegian company, and that this is not only sold out to the highest bidder, or in any case sold out to a foreign company?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e382	The state has a lot of ownership, and it is important that we follow the principles, not least laid down in this Chamber, that those who govern should rule and that they be given the freedom to assess according to their own strategy plans. If you're dissatisfied with what some of the state companies are doing, we're going to have the opportunity to replace them. It's very important, as I see it as Minister of Industry, that you don't get involved in the assessments made in any sale, but that we use the law that we're going to use to review how a possible sale has been made. As far as the whole of the marine side is concerned, the Stortinget has just adopted a colossal escalation of research and development in order to allow that very area to grow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e391	Odd Roger Enoksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e394	The study presented yesterday on future industrial development in the country identified the marine sector as No. 1 – before oil and gas, before the maritime sector and before the IT industry as No 4th@item: inlistbox That means here we are talking about one of the most important industries for the development of value creation in the country in the future. In my view, research, product development and processing should be given priority when considering who will own these industries in the future, and I am absolutely convinced that the best thing will happen within the framework of national ownership. Breeding sites are a limiting factor. We're talking here about a company that, in total, owns one eighth of all farming concessions in the country, approximately. 100 concessions. So that means we're selling out of the country a significant part of the locations that are going to provide for the future value creation. My question to the Council of State then goes on a more general basis: does the Council of State consider it at all important to facilitate national control of this resource in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e405	The answer to that is yes. But at the same time, we will also invite foreign companies to participate in and further develop this industry too – of course. As regards the possibilities for this industry, it will be important for the research and development side. For the time being, not exactly that part has been so prominent in the industry, so they need a push, and they also need us to be with them in further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e410	Jon Lilletun – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e413	In the former distribution, led by Torger Reve, seafood is seen as the area where one can grow the most. In the same edition, they also say that one should bet on what one is best before – it should be developed further, not least on the research page. It has been quite a deal in the Norwegian political environment that ownership is important when it relates to the area where we are best, and what we have seen is that when it becomes foreign ownership, it is very easy that research is made elsewhere than in Norway. The main figure for the Working Party on the Stortinget in Business, Kjell Opseth, Rita Tveiten and a number of others have been very clear that it is a pity that the ownership of this engine in breeding as it is is remains on Norwegian hands. Without taking a position on the matter: does the Council of State share the view of the representative Opseth that such an important factor as this is before this industry should have been in Norwegian hands?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e422	Back to the very specific matter: I assume that Hydro has assessed who is most competent in this situation in the course of the work to continue with Hydro Seafood. There are several former state councils who have taken the floor, and the former fisheries minister, after he left, has had a great commitment to this matter, which has probably also been partly discussed – I assume – in the former government. But my answer in terms of research and development is that this needs to be carried out, and as far as possible, we need to ensure that our Norwegian companies are the most important ones in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e427	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e430	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Labour and Administration Kosmo. Today's debate, with a one-sided focus on and fear of the burden of popular fear, is a dangerous bypass to the greatest challenge we have in the future, namely to provide adequate care and supervision services and a good enough school. So it's about getting enough nurses, teachers, help nurses, carers, etc., and these people have to be attracted to these professions in a labour market that will develop more than fewer good, new, interesting and well-paid jobs in other sectors. It is time for a new and active, offensive and powerful public wage and employer policy instead of a passive and divided after-sales attitude that is now in place. Will the Council of State take the initiative in pursuing such an offensive wage and employer policy in the public sector, so that we can solve the most important tasks we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e439	In the long run, Andersen’s representative has a right to describe the challenges of bringing people not only to education but also to remain in the professions that are responsible for a significant part of service production in the care and health professions. That means that a number of people who are currently in other types of jobs, hopefully will be involved in qualifying for these kinds of jobs in the future. If we don't get this done, we're going to have major problems in achieving the goals we've set ourselves for social development. In this work, there are a number of measures and policy objectives that need to be taken, but I want to be very careful in Stortingen, a few days before opening the pay negotiations in the public sector, to give some signals on the future pay and employment policy issues that we are basing on. What I can say, however, is that we are going to focus a lot on the fact that the employer, as an employer, is also going to be active in these processes, and not being retired and acting only as social politicians in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e446	The central statistical agency has estimated that about a quarter of the total needs are to be met. 85 000 new public sector annual works if we are to be able to implement the reforms we have already adopted, and there is more labour force than there is room for in the macro-economy. This must mean that we must resort to a much stronger instrument to cope with the tough competition we face. Is it not more dangerous not to give signals now that people dare to bet on these professions, not to read job advertisements every day, and not to try to find other jobs, than to give some positive signals today that can give hope that these are the future jobs that will also be rewarded with good pay and proper employment, because the big employer, namely the state, and the politicians have realized that action needs to be taken here if we are to solve the problems?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e452	Collective bargaining is a very comprehensive matter. Of course, real macroeconomic issues are important for the majority of people, such as interest rate developments, price developments, real wages, a balance between those in the public sector and those in the private sector, business balance and one with the other. I can provide a wide range of arguments as to why, as an employer’s representative and as the principal person responsible for carrying out these negotiations under the authority of the Government, I should not be able to make concrete representations at today’s meeting regarding the tariff negotiations we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e457	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e460	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. The Government's Declaration of Accession places great emphasis on innovation, the importance of building competences, and the Council of State itself has marked it strongly in a number of contexts. The instruments will then become important. The government in which I sat made it quite clear that before the summer, the special tax on innovation, the investment tax, would be abolished. As everyone knows, it has been abolished for industry and agriculture, and my question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State and the Government will promote initiatives, so that the investment tax that now weighs on the industries that need development incentives will be abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e467	While some of these areas belong naturally to the Minister of Finance, it will be seen in the context of the VAT and VAT systems, and it has already indicated to the Minister of Finance that he will promote in the context of the State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e472	Is this to be seen in clear terms as what we want to promote, not just an assessment, but a concrete proposal to abolish the investment levy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e477	In the past, Our party leader and also our Prime Minister signaled that there is a current issue, without me saying here and now that the answer is a very clear yes, because this should be seen in the context of the entire VAT system and promoted as a separate matter in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e482	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e485	In a number of areas, the Labour Party is now reorienting itself. They lay down a different policy than the one they had in opposition. My question is whether this is also the case with regard to industrial policy and the framework conditions for small enterprises. The Labour Party has said that they want to cut out the stock discount, tighten the sharing model, etc. The question is whether they stick to their previous policies in this area. Question no. 2: When one could not give an answer to the question of the investment tax, does one see that the tax on wealth is a problem in order to ensure the development of Norwegian enterprises? Is there an attitude to change the arrangement for the taxes on wealth, as the outgoing government ordered it to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e492	With regard to innovation and, in particular, to small and medium-sized enterprises, this government will have an offensive policy, not least in the light of the reports that emerged yesterday, on cluster theory, from Professor Torger Reve. However, I think the big difference between the former government and the current government will be the whole international aspect, as even the smallest enterprise in Norway today cannot operate independently from the outside world, but will need many instruments that are both national and international. With regard to the taxes on wealth, here I can limit myself to saying what Thorbjørn Jagland said earlier, that it should be looked at.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e499	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e502	The main question was the relationship between the tax system and the so-called new economy or the new type of enterprise. It's a continuous feature that our tax system is based on thinking about capital in the form of physical or monetary capital, and not the so-called human capital. For example, the intermediate parties and the Workers' Party have ensured that research and development activities in their own active companies in this country are regarded as a liberal profession and thus receive the highest marginal rate in the tax system. It has also been ensured that goodwill and some other human capital pieces are not deductible in the sharing model. There are a number of such examples of the fact that all framework conditions in Norway are currently largely to the detriment of IT firms, new technologies and knowledge-based industries. Does the Council of State think it is time to carry out a complete review of the framework conditions for this type of enterprise when looking at both the investment tax, the wealth tax and the other parts of the sharing model, in order to motivate these rather than counteract them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e510	I agree with the representative that it is important to look at how we should also organise systems that make both foreign investors come to Norway and highly skilled foreign workers to participate in our work. Now we are working on the Hervik Committee's position, and it's just about how we're going to stimulate business, for example. on the whole innovation side, knowing that there is a knowledge economy in which we are located. But how this should happen, whether it should be by tax deduction, tax relief or by an incentive directly from the state, we have not yet taken a stand. As for the question of a complete review of the tax system, I am not entitled to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e517	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e520	I have a question for the Minister of Aid, who has been given a reasonable time in peace throughout the whole spontaneous questioning. I have noticed with interest that there has been a change in the division of labour between the Minister of Assistance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the new government. I understand, of course, that the division of duties between the different governments is the government's own matter, but it still becomes a question of what this change involves purely politically. I would ask the Council of State to say something about it, and at the same time to answer how the Minister of Aid will follow up human rights issues for which the former Minister of Aid had the primary responsibility, once this has now been transferred to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, who should have the primary responsibility to follow up the human rights action plan drawn up by the former government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e529	It is true that there is a new division of labour between the Minister for Aid and the Minister for Foreign Affairs in some areas. It has been established that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is responsible for the organisation, coordination and implementation of Norwegian foreign policy and that the Minister for Assistance is responsible for the aid policy and development work outside the OSCE area. This implies that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is responsible for global work for peace, reconciliation and democratic development, including the Middle East peace process. Furthermore, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also be responsible for all Norwegian humanitarian aid, emergency aid and assistance to refugees, as well as responsibility for short-term and long-term action in the OSCE area. The Minister of Assistance shall be responsible for all other short-term and long-term assistance outside the OSCE area, including assistance to the Middle East, Central America and other conflict areas, as determined in kilograms. Res. of 17 March. It is clear that, in the case of new schemes, there will always be some doubts as to the extent to which borderline movements and, in particular, the follow-up to individual cases, and that the distribution does not automatically fall into place. The final demarcation between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Assistance will be notified to Stortinget during the spring session, probably in the context of the revised national budget. When it comes to human rights issues, I would like to make it clear that the Minister for Aid works on a per cent basis. definition of one hundred percent of its time with human rights issues. Social and economic development and also efforts to secure democracy, civil and political rights and cultural rights in the co-operation countries we have are the responsibility of the Minister of Assistance. Human rights are also a heavy responsibility for all the Councils of State in this government; it is very important to state that they must follow up within their responsibilities. As regards the follow-up to the human rights action plan, it shall be addressed here in the Stortinge. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have responsibility for the coordination of that follow-up, but there will be heavy responsibilities at all the Government Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e540	I would like to thank the Council of State for a clear and thorough response, and I look forward to the Government coming back to the Stortinget with a clear message on how to imagine that this division of labour will be entirely concrete in the future. For the previous government, human rights issues were very central, and our former government took the initiative in this action plan at a total of 300 action points, which we naturally hope will be followed up by the new government. I would like to ask the Council of State briefly about the approach to development policy, about the relationship between emergency aid and humanitarian aid, not least in view of the long-term needs for the development of, for example, humanitarian aid. trade and debt, which were also very central to the policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e547	First, I would like to say that I see it as important in the work on human rights that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the human rights issue very high on his agenda, like the Minister for Aid and the other ministers. We see this grip that is now done, as a way of further strengthening the work in the field of human rights. With regard to the relationship between emergency aid and longer-term assistance and the need for long-term development measures, it is a very important matter for us, of course, to ensure a good interaction between emergency aid and long-term assistance. We shall ensure this through very close cooperation in political leadership in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e554	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e557	My question goes to Kosmo State Council. In the Government's Declaration of Accession there are many interesting ideas about a modern public sector. I have it as a principle when the second party comes after and joins in the thoughts of my own party, not to be in the bad mood of it. So it's with anticipation that I look forward to what the government is concretely promoting. I record that in one of the investigations by the Kosmo Council of State earlier today, which takes place internally in the Workers' Party under the direction of Kåre Hagen, it is said among other things. that the public should limit its role as a producer of healthcare services. So then you have introduced the concept that the public has a responsibility, but who produces is subordinate. Does this mean that a signal will also be given to all municipalities that the producer role is subordinate, the important role of responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e564	As I tried to say instead, this was an input into an important debate, which is not just about the renewal of the public sector in Norway, but about how we should be able to make the right priorities in order to fulfill the promises we make to users. It is clear that on this issue it is absolutely central that one is also willing to discuss who will be responsible for the production of the various services, at what level and at what level, and whether it is absolutely such that one has to stand for the public production of everything, or whether something can be private and something public. We have to be so bold and open that we go in and take political discussions on this and do not initiate things and experiment with the individual user without having taken any principal discussions in advance. There are very different experiences from abroad regarding the results of such processes. Clearly, Norway is not like Oslo. And you don't have to face such a situation in this country that you get a number of private monopolies instead of public monopolies. It would almost be the worst thing that could happen as a result of this development. This is why it is so important to take the ideas and input that come from right-wing politicians in these processes when discussing how to organise service production in the public sector in the future. So I would say that when the National Assembly of the Workers' Party first takes decisions, there will be decisions that apply not only to the central parts of the Workers' Party, but to the entire Workers' Party, including the local part, i.e. the Municipal Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e571	It was just the key word ‘thirsty’ that the Council of State now used in its answer, which gave me some inspiration, and it was perhaps an attempt from the Government to indicate that it might have a slightly different profile than the previous government – there has not been much of that so far. It was actually an indirect invitation to ask the Council of State if he would give a different signal than the previous government, for the previous government said clearly, among other things. the former Minister for Municipal Affairs and Social Affairs, that the municipalities are warned against trying out solutions other than public service production. Will this government accede to the same warning, or will this government practice the principle that municipalities should be free and that municipalities should be able to test different models? I also agree with the heart that private monopolies are as bad as public monopolies – just as bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e578	I did say that private monopolies would be worse than public monopolies, and that is what I stand by. When I talk about boldness, it is to have the political courage to do the studies and take the discussions that are necessary in order to finally make the right political decisions for the sake of those who need the services. This must be the starting point – those who need the services to be provided by the public. There must be consideration for those who weigh the most, the ability to treat people who are sick, the ability to provide proper care for the elderly, the ability to provide childcare facilities, etc. When I'm talking about boldness, it's going to start the political process that's going to enable us to make the right decisions. If this only becomes closed discussions, there is a greater chance that decisions will go wrong than if they are the result of public discussions. That's why I'm happy with all the recordings that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e584	There will be follow-up questions – Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e587	I thought the Stoltenberg government's warning about modernising and renewing the public sector is exciting. In this way, there is also a good basis in several areas from the central government, ranging from the more than 100 projects in the 'Simplify Norway' to proposals in the smoothing message, etc. When it comes to privatisation and postponement of competition, my question is to the Kosmo Council of State: will he take into account the experience, for example: Denmark and Sweden have already done in the case of care services and show that one has mixed experience because it is difficult to define the requirements to be complied with? The need for care varies. Will the Council of State have as its starting point the fact that there are some municipal services that are easier to define and therefore easier to compete?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e594	Firstly, I would like to draw a very clear distinction between ‘privatisation’ and competitive outsourcing. I mean, if you say you're going to privatize a service, it's because you're also privatizing the responsibility. Talking about outsourcing means that the public still retains responsibility for the service and has to be able to stand up to the individual user to make the right choices. In these processes, it must be essential to have opportunities for political governance. The local government and, by and large, the Storting should have the opportunity to go in and say, "That's how we want it." It is then necessary to have a management system that makes it possible to implement this, so that one does not “marry” the person responsible for the production of services. All of these considerations have to be taken into account when we're going to make the right choices. But I also want to say that we don't have to be so square that we don't realize that the right choices in the kindergarten sector don't necessarily have to be the right choices in the health sector. It's not all black or white.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e601	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e604	I have a question for our honourable Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade. The biggest industrial challenge we have in this country is that many traditional businesses are not able to replace the value creation and jobs that are lost. The internationally known analyst Morgan Stanley Dean Witter says that the cheapest shares in Europe are purchased at Oslo Stock Exchange. In other words, Norwegian companies are going on cheap sales alongside merging, shutting down their business, etc. The Bondevik government did very little to maintain attractive businesses in Norway. I would rather say that they administered an industrial policy for the relocation of Norwegian businesses. What new steps will our new Minister of Industry and Labour Party government take to prevent attractive businesses from moving out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e613	It's an important question that the representative here addresses. What we know is that the actual knowledge content of our businesses is bad. At the same time, we have some important clusters, which came out not least yesterday in the report that Torgeir Reve has been responsible for, which is both the marine and the maritime, and we are a huge energy country. Then we have to look at the means by which we are going to be involved to ensure that our businesses continue to grow and better conditions on the knowledge side. Then the answer will be research, development, education, lifelong learning for the workers so that they can keep up-to-date so that we can build up under the clusters that exist in Norway. For example: The company industry has very good framework conditions, tax conditions, but what also emerged yesterday was that the same industry on the development side has a good deal to do with its own forces, so that the interaction between development, research, enterprise and education will probably be what is most central, while at the same time we must be aggressive towards international environments and ensure the same framework conditions for our businesses as elsewhere – the same driving rules. Here I am thinking of both the World Trade Organisation and the contract agency that we are part of through the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e622	I agree that there is a pressing need to improve the conditions for the competitiveness of Norway. One of the things the Council of State did not mention is the form field and registration obligation, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. After all, the Bondevik government started a program, but in the first year they were only able to reduce the form field by 6 per million. But they set a target of a reduction of 25 pst. in the course of two years. Governments have taken a positive view of this program. I now expect that she will not be worse than the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. Will she maintain the target of a reduction of 25 pst. in the course of two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e629	We'll follow the good initiative that was taken here by the former government, and then after a period we'll get back to whether the ambitions are going to be slightly higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e634	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e639	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 9, from the representative Erna Solberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in front of question 27, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative Annelise Höegh to the Minister for Social Affairs, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 17, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Administration who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Labour and Administration, this question is moved and answered in response to question 5, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 23, from Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Fisheries, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e667	This question has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e673	I would like to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions: ‘Follow-up to Aftenposten on 29 March 2000, Norway’s contribution to NATO’s standing mine clearance force is withdrawn because the contractual relationship is still not in order. That's the second time this happens in a year. That Norway in this way does not fulfil its obligations to NATO, is completely unacceptable. What will the Council of State do in the short and long term to correct this very unworthy relationship?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e682	I share the concern of the representative, Ingvald Godals, after the head of defence has found it necessary, over a short year, to cancel twice Norwegian participation in NATO's standing mining power. However, I find it necessary to clarify the following: in the public debate, sometimes they are produced so that all international services require volunteering. This is – I would almost have said fortunately – not right. The service of standing forces of NATO and the possible use of Norwegian military personnel in operations based on Article 5 of the NATO Treaty does not require voluntary service. However, as a general rule, the provision of services in international peace operations requires voluntary service. Where the Defence Manager has chosen to cancel participation with KNM ‘Hinny’, this is due to the fact that the crew did not wish to enter into a contract of service in international peace operations if this would become applicable during the period for which the ship was intended to be assigned to NATO’s mineral resources. I fully support the Chief of Defense's decision to cancel KNM's participation in NATO's standing mining power on this basis. However, the epidemics of KNM ‘Hinny’ this year and of KNM ‘Karmøy’ last year should be nuanced. I can mention that during this year, the Naval Defense has three additional discharges of vessels for standing NATO forces. I am briefed that the frigate KNM ‘Trondheim’, the submarine KNM ‘Experience’ and the mine cleaner KNM ‘Karmøy’ will participate in such service later this year and that the contracts here are in order. Some of the problem now is, after what I understand, also that we have so far only had two operational miners. However, during the year a third mine clearance will become operational, and this will also help to improve the situation. I'll show you to St. Announcer. No 38 for 1998-99 under consideration in the Committee. After this government is behind the message, we are now awaiting the treatment of the Storting. Although an extension of the right to order is not directly mentioned in the communication, the debate on the notification suggests that this will be a very central theme during the process itself. I think an extension of the right of appeal is absolutely necessary if Norway is to be able to meet our international obligations in the future. In particular, media redundancy refers to dissatisfaction with insurance and compensation schemes. Let me clarify something that I think everyone knows, that this staff has contractual insurance schemes that are much better than for government employees for the rest – that should of course only be lacking. But equally, there is broad agreement on the need for further improvements. The notification points to a number of measures to strengthen the recruitment of international operations for different groups of personnel, including, of course, insurance schemes. I have registered broad support for these proposals in my time in the Defence Committee, whether it is allowed to refer to it, and I believe that it has not turned around in a few weeks. Some of these measures are under investigation, the follow-up to other measures is awaited pending the treatment of the Storting. We aim to renegotiate the current agreement governing the provision of services in international operations during the spring, and the insurance arrangements become part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e702	I would like to thank you for your answer, but I would remind you that we now have nine new mines, which we have spent billions in the 1990s. It's been eight years since we reported to NATO's Immediate Reaction Forces. We have had eight years to get the contract relationship in order, and I think it is totally incomprehensible that it is not too far in place. Now I understand that in the case in question there are only 5 out of 38 of the crew who will not sign the contract. I would then ask the Minister of Defense to take five from the Navy, so that this vessel can immediately take its place in NATO's strength. Secondly, I would like to say that I fully agree that we need to have an order system, and I would recommend to the Minister of Defence that we immediately initiate preparations for this, so that we can get a bill on this to deal with in the Stortinget now in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e711	I appreciate, of course, my uncle's offensive tone, but it is very rare for a representative to ask the Council of State to start before the setting is issued. I would like to see the setting, and ask for a certain understanding of it. But if the committee is fast, it could go about the same thing. As far as the second point is concerned, I would like to bring with me the professional advice of Mr. Ingvald Godal's head of defence on the possibilities of solving this in other ways, including: in the way he suggests. I don't think it's useful to stand here and tell the head of defense exactly how this is to be done, I assume it's assessed. But at least I'm going to make sure that this suggestion is not lowered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e720	I thank you for the answer, and I just want to love the Council of State to be happy with that. It is unworthy for Norway that we are not able to line up with our allies in such a context, when we have the equipment and there are only five people from all over the Norwegian Navy. So good luck, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e730	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘The Swedish Parliament has adopted major reductions in the size of its defence, while at the same time reorganising it. The same thing is probably going to happen in Norway too. We have an interest in and aim to have a good defence policy cooperation with Sweden. In connection with the Riksdag decision, will the Council of State ensure that this work is now strengthened and more concretely condemned on the exercise page, possibly also in relation to having joint Nordic United Nations forces?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e739	Our defence policy cooperation with Sweden has been significantly strengthened in the last 10 years. This has become possible not least as a result of the growing participation of Sweden in the European security structures, including the Partnership for Peace. The government will continue to deepen and further develop this cooperation, both bilaterally and in a multinational framework. Multinational cooperation takes place both within the Nordic framework and in a broader European context. Nordic cooperation is to a large extent built up in the context of the further development of our Common Force Register for Peace Operations, the so-called NORDCAPS. The aim is to strengthen the capacity of the Nordic countries to operate together by participating in peace operations under the auspices of the UN, NATO, the OSCE and, where appropriate, the EU. Consequently, this is a broader objective than just purely UN operations. The goal is to be able to set up a common Nordic unit up to Brigade size. The successful Nordic-Polish cooperation under NATO command in Bosnia was an example of such cooperation. The Nordic countries carry out the annual Nordic Peace exercise series, which are exercises for peace operations related to the Partnership for Peace. Nordic Peace will be held for the second time in Norway in 2001. In the context of bilateral cooperation with Sweden, it was decided in the autumn of 1999 to strengthen operational cooperation in peace-keeping activities, in particular through joint training and practice activities. Such activities will include, for example, staff and liaison exercises, flight monitoring, airside screening and management and base operations. In addition, embargo, escort and mine clearance exercises will take place for the maritime forces of the two countries. I therefore believe that the cooperation in defence policy between Norway and Sweden is good and in continuous development. It serves both Norwegian and Nordic security and thus constitutes a valuable supplement, but of course no substitute for e.g. the training cooperation within the NATO framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e750	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I think it is good that one is working to strengthen defence policy cooperation with the Swedish – that is positive and sensible. But I thought the Minister of Defense was a little bit impressed by Ole Brumm, one should bet on all the horses, one should in a way not give priority over anything else, and I think that's a wrong strategy. I think you have to choose and not lose over everything that the Minister of Defense puts up with. And then the starting point is that we want to strengthen the UN's position, and we think it's best to do so by strengthening cooperation with Sweden in order to have the force ready for the United Nations. Unfortunately, on the SV side, the Minister of Defence seems to be investing more in the new NATO, i.e. a NATO that does not need a UN mandate to engage in operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e755	I don't think that for natural reasons, and I feel that the balance between one and the other is good in the answer I just gave. But I agree with the representative of Langeland, something that Ole Brumm-preg doesn't talk much about in the defense below, if it ever has been. Of course, we have to choose. But as far as the UN component of my response is concerned, it goes without saying that if we now suddenly told the Swedes that Sweden and Norway are now involved – having developed over the year a NORDCAPS concept based on the inclusion of the other Nordic countries in peacekeeping and peace-building operations after a Nordic read – it might be misunderstood both in Finland and in Denmark. I'm not saying that to underestimate the importance of bilateral Swedish-Norwegian cooperation, but I think my Finnish and my Danish colleague would be surprised if I went on air and said that now there is cooperation along the cold between the two old parties in the Union that is the most important, while Denmark and Finland come in second row. I may have misunderstood the representative here, but we cannot do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e760	The Council of State is probably a bit tough when it comes to that misunderstanding with Sweden, but it is clear that when one is as close as one does, and for example. have a field of fire that one could cooperate on using, it is natural to think a little strategic with Sweden in that way. The last follow-up question is in relation to the Norwegian defence's profile in the future. So now we have a new concept for NATO, one that has an investment program in the future – frigatesack, hunting aircraft, shooting field. This means that one has to make strong investments that will in a way be detrimental to the operation of the Norwegian defence system and that one has to cut down on other things. My question is, what time will the Minister of Defence propose that there be a proper discussion in the Storting on what kind of defence concept Norway should have, and how to participate internationally in this defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e769	I think that was a good question. The work currently under way, both in the Defence Policy Selection set up by the previous government, the Chief of Defence's work on the Defence Study 2000 and other processes, is intended to provide the basis for a broad treatment in the Storting in connection with the Government's long-term defence programme for the next period of time. So all the major questions that the representative rightly raises will be presented to the Stortinget in the form of a communication of long-term programme character. The plan is that it should be available during the year, and most likely around Christmas times plus/minus. That will be a prerequisite for the broad and absolutely necessary review that we are facing. But I want to say, as a parentheses and as a comment to the little thing that was said about the substance of this particular thing, that if we're just going to be concerned with preserving the defense as it is with the x number of jobs across the country, without looking at the operational capability of the defense, then we're going to go completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e779	I have the following questions for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: «The summer of 1999 I was on Svalbard's journey with the M/S North Star. In this connection, I registered large amounts of driftwood in the area. I am made aware that this is the property of the state, and that it has been authorised to perform drift timber in the processed form. Drifting timber is a danger to shipping and a foreign element in the environment. Will the Council of State step up marketing to take out this timber so that these large resources can be transformed into the value they represent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e788	Large quantities of driftwood and railwood are a common view along the beaches of Svalbard. The timber largely originates from the rivers of Siberia and runs westwards with the current of the sea. Over time, the fuel gauge has been an important resource for Svalbard operations, both for building materials and for fuels. A large part of Svalbard's solid cultural memories, which are scattered around the island group, are just built of drift timber. The starting point for the management of drift timber on Svalbard is the regulation of 25 September 1931 on drift timber on Svalbard and Jan Mayen. According to the regulation, no timber from Svalbard can be exported without the permission of the employed person. Earlier in the year Bjørn Elves consented to the export of processed drift timber as a pilot project for a period of five years. In connection with this application from the Riveres, the Employment Manager contacted the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is managed by the State’s basic interest in Svalbard. We are in favour of this project and have agreed to the sinking of drift timber in the areas owned by the Norwegian state. This consent is limited to the probationary period of five years. Once this has expired, we will decide whether to extend this and, if necessary, follow up with a more general consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e797	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have the following follow-up questions to the Council of State: Does the Council of State view this drifting tree as an environmental pollution on Svalbard, which I think it is when it lies in an area as special as Svalbard? Does the Minister further see the possibility of taking out this timber properly? For the furniture production that is now to be done by this timber at Svalbard, I don't think there will be much of it. It's very little we're talking about here, so here we either have to give gas and really get the timber out, or we just have to have it the way we've had it to now -- just leave it down, and let people take it by or for construction or whatever it might be. But it won't be a targeted extraction of the timber, and that's what takes me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e806	There is probably a slightly different perception of whether this is a polluting element or part of the overall environment of Svalbard. But we're opening. Now this attempt is under way, and I have also suggested to the questioner that if this is positive, we will consider a more general access to such a business that has now been established through the Rivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e811	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State is positive in connection with this five-year probationary period. But my direct question is whether the Council of State might think about this before the end of that period, because there's a lot of timber lying down and going to play in this area in that period. At least I have to say for myself that as I have seen Svalbard with this drifting timber around, this is a visual contamination for me. We all know that there's a lot of growth on Svalbard. There's not a tree up there, so it's actually a foreign element in this area. And the timber has come there because of a regular accident in other places.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e816	Environmental protection authorities do not see drifting timber as a natural part of Svalbard. But now we're together to try out this business over a five-year period, and I've also signaled to the asker that if it's positive, we'll consider a more general access. And longer than that, I can't go at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e824	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: ‘In the current year’s budget, the seafarer’s deduction for stateless persons was removed. This has resulted in a tax tightening of nearly NOK 20 000 for this profession. It has previously been a pre-requisite that mariner deductions should be fully compensated, cf. minutes between the Ministry of Labour and the main associations of the negotiating meetings on 4 April and 24 September 1992. What will the Council of State do to meet this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e833	As from 1 January 2000, the size has decided that state losers are positively exempted from the provisions of the Tax Code on seafarers’ deductions. Initially, I would like to say that there is usually no compensation for changes in tax rules. However, a derogation was granted in 1992 cf. St. pp. No 75 for 1990-91, that some professionals who had had a long-term maritime tax would receive 100 pst. compensation for the loss of the seafarer’s deduction. This was true of both the private and the public sectors. In 1992, negotiations were held on compensation for the loss of seafarers’ deductions for those groups that had had done so before 1992. The state losers did not fulfil the law’s criteria for seafarers’ deductions before 1992 and were therefore not entitled to the deduction. Stateless people were therefore excluded from the agreement between the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the organisations in 1992. However, in 1992 the Ministry of Finance amended the criteria by Regulation of 13 February 1992 to ensnare seafarers entitled to seamen's deductions. It was not intended that state losers would be entitled to seafarer's deductions as the unloading work takes place over relatively short distances and that almost all overnight stays take place at home. As these criteria were designed, stateless persons inadvertently entered with the right to seafarer deductions. In order to rectify this unintended court, the Stortinget adopted the Government's proposal, cf. St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000, exempting stateless persons from the provisions of the Tax Code on seafarers’ deductions from 1 January 2000. The budget foresees a tax savings of about 5 million. kr. As I understand it, in Stortinget it was discussed whether the lapse was to be compensated as it was done in 1992. The majority agreed that compensation should not be granted for the state losers. On this basis, I find no basis for any other than following up on the decision of the Enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e852	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I found disappointing. As I mentioned in my main question, therefore, stateless people have received a strong tax tightening of nearly NOK 20 000 as a result of the budget agreement between the then Bondevik government and the Workers' Party, and this was followed up by a change in the law in December 1999. As far as I am concerned, in recent years several other similar professions have been exempted from the seafarer's deduction, but in common with them all, they have been compensated for it. This applies, for example: the crew of the rescue skates, the ferry crew and the crew on the flotation rigs. Does the Council really not understand the reaction of stateless people to the severe net reduction in income that has resulted? And does not the Council of State feel a responsibility to follow up with compensation also to this profession in line with what has been done for those I mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e863	On its own, I can understand that the questioner and the state losers are disappointed with the answer I have to give. But it doesn't help me as much as I can understand the problem, because the Storting has actually taken a decision, and this issue has been discussed in the bodies of the Storting in connection with the decision. There is therefore no reason for me to have any understanding of the question other than what the Stortinge has been thinking about – and I have to follow that, of course. Therefore, there is no other way to do this than to take note of the decision taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e870	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State said in its first answer that the state losers accidentally got this deduction. But they met the criteria of 130 days of sailing time in the law, so I believe that of course it is not unintentional. The wish of the stateless to compensate for the loss of the seafarer's deduction is, in my opinion, most justified. Does the Council agree that this wish, or rather the claim, must be treated as a real compensation for the loss of deductions, separately from the ordinary wage struggle?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e879	I explained in my first answer the facts of the case. The stateless people did not have the right to negotiate compensation in the course of the changes made in 1992, but it was unintentional in the subsequent amendment that the stateless people were entitled to seamen’s deductions. The questioner should have asked these questions and taken this discussion when Stortingen dealt with the matter, that was when the decision was taken. There is nothing I can do in retrospect to smooth out the decision Stortinget has made – of course I have to focus on that, it should just be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e886	We're going to go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e892	This question, from the representative Ivar Kristiansen to the Minister of Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Administration who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e895	I have raised the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «Bopro, a company wholly owned by the Municipality of Bodø, offers its employees with reduced development 10 kroner per year. hour. In my opinion, this is a completely unworthy fee, which in no way contributes to making everyday life more dignified and independent for those with developmental disabilities. There is no public standard for the payment of employees in such cases, and if not, what will the Council of State do to remedy such unworthy conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e904	The company’s representative Ivar Kristiansen refers to the issue, is a labour market measure and therefore belongs to the Minister of Labour and Administration’s field of responsibility. The enterprise is a cooperative activity in public enterprises, an ASVO enterprise. This is a measure that gives permanent employment to people with disabilities who cannot easily be provided for regular work or benefit from other job offers. The target group is persons who have been granted or have rights to disability or other social security benefits. The State grants aid to ASVO companies per the place of action. The State operating grant is in the year 84 300 SEK. In addition, the co-operation measures also receive municipal support. On average, municipal aid corresponds to about 1/3 of the country’s contribution. The government grant to the enterprises is therefore significant. The guidelines of the labour market authorities for the action provide for any surplus to remain on the holding and be used for measures to improve the working situation of the disabled or to be used for various welfare measures. Thus, the co-operation measures are based on the fact that the individual’s benefits are mainly the result of the disability pension. It's important to be aware of that. Participants do not receive normal remuneration from the enterprise but may receive a financial compensation or bonus. This is a bonus that is determined by value creation in the company. The amount of the bonus is agreed between the trustees of the disabled and the management of the company. Labour market authorities do not intervene in this relationship between employer and employee. Nor do I see any reason why we should ask the labour market authorities to intervene in this area. Work cooperation measures currently have an important social function for those working there. Should the demand for productive effort and earnings increase, it could push the weakest action participants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e919	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What the Council of State really says is that he's not willing to go through a code that shows up very stiff-legged. And he also says he's not willing to go through a system that doesn't pay for the job they're actually doing. This does not contribute to creating the necessary self-respect resulting from the ability to live to a greater extent of its own income, which is also required by this population. Then I would like to ask the Council of State whether he cannot at least consider a transfer – in this case to the municipality of Bodø – of part of the social security funds, so that a greater share of the income of each person with a developmental disability, in this case by his own job, is shown as remuneration and a smaller share as social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e928	I am committed to looking at all the rules that may seem rigid and impractical, and to giving the boards and the management of the individual actions as much opportunity as possible to make the right choices. But here the code is not rigid! We give a state grant, and then the municipalities contribute as well. So let's say that this is the basis on which you have to operate. And what those who are employed there are going to have as guaranteed income is what they would normally get in disability pension. And if you're doing well to create a value in the company, you have to allocate that value to the employees of the company, either as a salary or as other welfare measures. So it's going to be in many ways the company itself that decides this. I have to say that we cannot go in and set completely different productivity requirements than it seems that they are able to implement. That is why I cannot see that the legislation is a barrier to this practice we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e937	I think the Council of State has to take a thought break in the closet with its colleagues, because this is not a question of productivity. Standards to be followed and followed are available in all other areas of life. If they are not followed, we know that there is a sufficient apparatus to ensure that the laws and regulations in force in employee relationships are complied with. My point is that this is a low-value situation both for the employee and for the rest of this crooked nation, when we see that we have equipped developmentally disabled people around with a pay system where in some cases they cannot even cover their travel expenses to and from work. So this isn't a question of adding to a total, increased public expenditure, but maybe about a distribution that allows us to look at this group with slightly different eyes than you've been willing to do so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e944	Yes, I can go to the closet and sit there for a while, but it is not certain that I will get to any other result. Of course, we will discuss, and it will be assessed on an ongoing basis, whether the grant provided through the labour market bill of well and well $84 000 is large enough, if it gives the enterprise the opportunity they need to offer the employees – and I stress the employees – the options they need to be able to function as people in society. Let's discuss that. However, to transfer this part of labour market measures of EUR 84 000 to the municipalities – as the representative suggested – I cannot see how to solve any kind of problem. But, of course, we need to continuously assess the amount of the sum that each action site should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e954	We go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e960	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘On Monday 27 March 2000, a report was published which concluded that Norwegian offshore emergency services related to accidents have deteriorated. What is the view of the Council of State on the security situation related to Norwegian offshore activities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e969	The report on Norwegian offshore preparedness, prepared by the offshore industry, makes a number of claims on Norwegian continental shelf safety and preparedness. I can't vouch for all the claims made there. The main conclusion of the supervision of the Directorate of Oil is that the petroleum activities are carried out within a sound framework and in accordance with the legislation applicable to the operations. In recent years, however, we have seen that the increasing demands of oil and gas companies on profitability and efficiency, combined with a variable oil price and increased operating and maintenance costs on older units in the North Sea, have led to massive pressure from industry to improve the framework conditions. For the safety and health authorities, this has resulted in challenges for the industry to choose technological and organisational solutions in relation to health, environmental and safety legislation. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is now working on a spillover message on oil and gas activities, where there will be a separate chapter on working environment and safety that will address precisely these issues. In the light of the experience gained by the Directorate of Oil's supervision and the views expressed by various reports on the level of risk on the socket, I have asked the Directorate of Oil to review the risk conditions of the oil and gas activities. As far as I am aware, the Directorate is already well-informed on this work, which will continue throughout this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e980	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I can immediately agree that there may be a small stamp of the order shop on this report that I referred to. But nevertheless, some important things have been pointed out that it is not so easy to sweep under the carpet in any way. Among other things, there is an important point where there has been a strong focus on anti-probability measures in the area of accidents, and impact-reduction measures have been put in the shadows. It gives a distressing feeling when these measures are removed. We've seen a gradual phasing out here of state-of-the-city vessels, to which this industry is specifically linked, and it's also pointed out that in some critical situations, helicopter access is in 95 pst. of cases not applicable. Does the Council share this distressing feeling, and does it worry that such contingency plans are approved without what the report calls dedicated vessels?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e989	I cannot take a concrete view here and now of what is best of the proposals that are on the table in relation to different preparedness solutions, in relation to the number of vessels versus helicopters, etc., but of course we should consider that. There is no doubt that the report that Mr. Hoddevik is making here is one of several contributions to the review that we have now asked the Oil Directorate to launch, which they are already doing, and which is of course one of several contributions in relation to the matter that the Government is working on, which is about the working environment and safety, to look at precisely the safety of the North Sea in terms of what has been raised here. When we do that, it's because we've got some signals that there's reason to take seriously. That's why we asked the Oil Directorate to start that job, and then, of course, we'll come back to the Storting when the time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e999	I thank you again for the answer. What has been shown recently — I refer to the ‘Sleipner’ accident — is that the presence of ships is very crucial in cases where people end up in the sea. And maritime competence is not to germinate, either in the field or in the planning phase. What this report also points out, and I want the Council of State to take note of, is that maritime competence is also called for in the Oil Directorate and in the process between the operator and the directorate when plans are to be approved. Will the Council of State take note of this as an important question? And maybe it's also possible to get a British example, where, after an overall assessment, you have renounced full approval from the authorities just to hold a permanent responsibility of the operators, where you have a self-responsive responsibility in the British sector, regardless of the approved document, just to limit the risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1008	I can't give any more specific answers here and now than what I've already done. But it's clear that we're taking with us all the recordings that come and that have come, and ideas of what can be done, in the review that we're already doing, and we're going to come back to the Storting with something when the time comes for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1016	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Failure of empty space and high land prices are important reasons why new dwellings become very expensive and the housing needs of people with little or no income are not resolved. The state is a major owner of property and, through its land and property policy, can contribute to speeding up social housing. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review State land and property mass in order to be able to use these as inputs in a housing effort for young and disadvantaged people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1025	The representative Andersen raises an important question, which the Government takes very seriously, and I would like to say right away that I share her concern with the situation of young people and disadvantaged people in the housing market. There is also no doubt that current land prices and housing prices are very high in parts of our country, especially in the largest cities. In St. Report. No 14 for 1998-99 – as the representative is sure to know – About the activities of the Norwegian State Husbank 1996-97, it is documented that this leads to the Husbank playing a small role in cities. This is what the Government wants to change, so that the House Bank can also play a greater role in our big cities. In the guidelines for housing grants to rental dwellings, it is provided that municipalities contribute finance, for example: in the form of reasonable plots. Unfortunately, many municipalities do not want to do this. Based on experience in the purchase and refurbishment of plots in the 1980s, most municipalities have opted to act more and more in line with market principles and generally demand market prices for the sale of properties and plots. There is no doubt that the lack of land is a major reason why we have as high housing prices as we have today, especially in the central areas. Municipalities can, through good spatial planning, facilitate increased housing construction, if they wish. The Ministry has called on municipalities, both through circulars and in other contexts, to establish local spatial plans and action programmes to expand more housing for these groups. Through good cooperation with private developers, the housing co-operation, the House Bank and landowners, which may also be the state, it should be possible to find good solutions. The government will do what it can to help that happen. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is working together on a project to improve urban and urban land use. This is a work that will be completed during this year, and we are waiting for several recommendations that will relate to the availability of land for residential purposes. In this context, the Ministry will also consider the issue raised by the representative Andersen, especially in relation to the housing situation for young and disadvantaged people, which is a major challenge. So the answer is, yes, the government will review the housing stock that the state is sitting on, and also the land area that we have, to see if part of it can be converted into homes for young and disadvantaged people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1034	I thank you for your answer, which was positive. It may not be so strange, because the Workers' Party and SV have previously made proposals together on such a review. Now the Workers' Party is in government and has the opportunity to address this issue on their own, and I'm glad they do. The council said that the plot prices are now very high – and that is right – and that the municipalities are now selling at market price. It may not be so strange, because it's an important value that the municipalities have, and the local government sector, as you know, has a huge deficit for the time being. The problem is that the state behaves the same way, by selling to the highest bidder. And the plots don't get much more reasonable for that reason. My follow-up question has to be: when the country goes through the property stock and its plots, is it in order to offer these plots or properties cheaper, below the market price, so that the price of the projects is lower?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1050	The answer is yes. We will assess all aspects of this in our effort to obtain far more reasonable, cheap rental homes for young people and for those of us who have the most difficulty. And then it is clear that the state also has to look at how much to charge. The representative Andersen is also familiar with the fact that when the issue of rickshospitals was up, both the Workers' Party and SV thought that part of it should be reserved just for homes for young and disadvantaged people. But unfortunately, the government we had at the time had a different view of it, so we didn't get to it. So it's clear that we're taking this seriously. We're also going to go through it from the state when we have the opportunity to do it, to look at what we can do to help achieve the goal that I believe the Workers' Party and SV agree on, namely that we're going to be able to provide much more housing for this purpose. And then nothing is going to be peaceful in the first place. We're going to go over and look at all of the possibilities we have, and we're going to follow up on that in a concrete way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1057	I want to thank you again for the positive answer. It sounds like there might be a new deal in housing policy. It certainly needs to be, because it has now melted away all since the beginning of the 1990s. The point of focusing on plots is that it is a defect. When the land price is high, they are also highly traded. A lot of people are looking for land today. This means that if you don't get this kind of review in place by the state rather quickly and get a new attitude on this in the state sector, a lot of the land area may already be gone. Is it the case that the Council of State is now going to put a stop to the disposal and sale of State land in the period up to this review, so that you can't get rid of what you could have as an input into such a housing operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1066	What I can promise is that the review that Andersen's representative has asked me about is going to take place quickly. We have to go through both land and property mass to see if we can turn parts of it into reasonable housing for young and disadvantaged people. Just how fast we can do it, I dare not stand here and answer, but I promise that it will happen very quickly. What might happen in the meantime, I can't answer here and now, also because there are more than me in this government who believe anything about it, not least the minister who has the primary responsibility for exactly land and state property, and that's different from me. I hear what has been said, and I will also bring it back. But I promise that we will try to make that review as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1076	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In Norway, there are few social rental homes. Most of them are municipal. Over the years, many of these dwellings have been disbursed, partly by subsidised loans/grants from the House Bank, and with the individual tenant's social security, social assistance and housing support. Such dwellings are now sold or rented at market prices. Does the Council agree that rules must be established to ensure that the stock of social housing does not decline and that state funds for social housing ensure sustainable housing for young and disadvantaged people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1085	For the treatment of St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98 – as Andersen’s representative knows well – About housing for young and disadvantaged people, cf. the position of the majority in the municipal committee was also broadly agreed that there were too few housing solutions for those who have problems in the housing market. I fully agree that we need to work to increase the supply of such housing, and the government wants to contribute through a concrete escalation plan where both the state, the municipalities, the housing law and others who have an interest in contributing here must play a team to get something together. One prerequisite is the development of local action plans to achieve this. It is essential that municipalities carry out active and good housing policies, both in terms of documenting the needs of individual municipalities and in terms of proposing what can be done. In this context, it is appropriate that the State should provide loans and grants in order to increase the level of supply where the needs are greatest. I believe that this is the right way to go so that we can eventually get a housing offer that is adapted to the challenges we are actually facing. Here I also think it is important that we manage to obtain the good examples in the municipalities where one has succeeded, which other municipalities can also learn from. When the House Bank grants loans to rental dwellings, it is a prerequisite for the grant to be included in the project. The grant is written off by 10 pst. over a ten-year period. If the dwelling is disposed of in breach of the applicable regulations and guidelines, the grant shall be refunded. However, it is the case that one must not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of efficient and good use of the housing stock, including in terms of location. This assumes that the municipality must have the opportunity to buy and sell dwellings. However, in my opinion, it is important that a good distribution of the municipal housing stock is targeted at different disadvantaged groups, thereby avoiding segregation. In order for municipalities to be stimulated for increased efforts, this must also be followed up by government funds in the form of loans and grants, and municipalities must facilitate good management of the housing stock, both through administration, lease fixing and purchase and sale. Along this way, I think that in sum, we're going to get a better deal for these groups. But to do that, we have to have a national effort where the state, the municipalities and the housing laws also play on the team to get to something that requires, and that is very urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1096	I thank you for the answer, but I am a little uncertain about what the Council of State really thought about the question that was asked, namely: do we need new mechanisms to ensure that government grants that are given to increase the stock of social housing remain in the homes, so that they do not become a kind of equity for, for example. a municipality that wants to act almost as a house shark? 10 pst. After all, over ten years, which the House Bank has as its limit, is a very short time. The problem is that we have very few social rental homes. If we don't provide for a longer time limit on this, you'll be able to collect government funds without increasing the number of social rental homes. That we need to increase them, I think the Workers' Party and SV agree. So then the question is, do we need any new mechanisms to secure this money better than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1101	Yes, we may need new mechanisms. I want to signal, as I also tried to do in my previous answer, that we have an open mind about what is going on in order for us to achieve the common goal we have, namely to manage to build more and use the existing premises we have to a greater extent, especially for young people and disadvantaged people. So I don't want to rule out that we need new instruments and mechanisms in some areas, as Andersen's representative said, without me being able to go for things here and now. But we're going to go through this, and we're going to make sure it happens quickly. I have noted the views that the representative has just made on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1106	I thank you for the answer, and thank you for the fact that the Council of States is open to see if there might be a need for new mechanisms. It's no secret that the starting point for the question is the situation in Oslo. Oslo Municipality owns a large proportion of the social rental properties. That they sell away, and that they also rely on a price policy that makes them approach both crowds' rentals and market rentals, means that the input we have to meet people's housing needs is not really going to be effective at all. I see that some people want schemes with increased housing support either at municipal level or – probably preferably – at state level. It would only be a purely operational expenditure and would not ensure that the number of dwellings increases. The Council of State sees it possible to take an initiative for a meeting, for example: with the Municipality of Oslo to discuss these issues, so that you can get a better grip on the situation quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1115	The government is committed to having a dialogue with the municipalities. I think that's the only way to go to be able to achieve the common goal that we have. I know, of course, that the particular situation in Oslo is quite challenging, in order to use that expression, and it will be natural in the process that we have now started to try to facilitate more dwellings, to have a meeting, among other things. with Oslo Municipality, which is the largest city, and where there are also major challenges. We want a dialogue with all municipalities initially, but there is no doubt that it is in this area the challenges are greatest. It will, of course, also be natural according to the work plan we have set up, that we will meet with the Municipality of Oslo on what we can do together to help do something about it in part in the precarious situation that is in parts of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1122	Question 9 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1128	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘The size has decided to enter into a written contract of employment in all types of employment. The media has found that about 60 pst. of young people aged 13 to 17 who are in a working situation, do not have a written contract of employment. It is likely that many other workers are also lacking a contract. What will the Council of State do to improve these conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1137	The question raised by the representative Lund is a very important one, because it is important that there is an orderly working environment. I want to make it clear at the outset that it is the responsibility of the employer to ensure compliance with the Working Environment Act, including the requirement of a written employment contract. Then, as the representative is well aware, it is the Labour Inspectorate that supervises compliance with the rules of the Working Environment Act and can impose and take other individual decisions where necessary. These are the public-law parts of the Working Environment Act that the Labour Inspectorate enforces. The rules of private law of the law must be enforced by the parties themselves, possibly with the help of the courts. The competence and duties of the Labour Inspectorate are limited here to guidance and information. The rules of the law on written contracts are both private and public law. Therefore, the Labour Inspectorate has previously limited itself to providing information about the obligation to conclude a written contract of employment. This was the reason why the Stortinget adopted a new Section 55 G of the Working Environment Act in December last year, which also gives the Labour Inspectorate the authority to impose obligations in relation to written employment contracts. Previous investigations have shown that the obligation to conclude written employment contracts has been too poorly complied with, as the representative Lund points out. The representative refers in his question to the results of a survey carried out by the Nordic Council of Ministers on the Environment at Work in 1997-98. The study shows, inter alia: at 29 pst. of Norwegian school children aged between 13 and 17 who do not know their rights as employees and that 60 pst. jobs without a written working contract. Following the new provision of Section 55 G of the Working Environment Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, the Labour Inspectorate may instruct the employer to draft a written contract of employment in accordance with the requirements of the Act. Now that the Labour Inspectorate has acquired the competence to impose regulations on these matters, I hope that it will help to ensure that far more workers get the protection of a written employment contract is actually meant to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1154	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The study that I referred to is primarily aimed at schooling. We are now in front of a new season of vacation replacements, and most of them are schoolchildren and students. Could the Council of State plan to launch a campaign through the Labour Inspectorate in order to improve the conditions of school youth and students with regard to obtaining a written employment contract, which is required by the Labour Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1161	As I said in my previous reply, I fully agree with the representative, Lund, that it is important that it is orderly and that the provisions on written employment contracts are also being complied with, especially for the youth group that we are talking about here. It is clear that the social partners also have an interest in, I think, and a responsibility to inform. Among other things, the Land Organisation is of those who are very active in this area. I think that's commendable. When it comes to the question of whether it should be put up for a broader campaign from the state team, I have no clear response to it now, but there is something that I want to take with me and possibly come back with an answer to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1171	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘North Norway has also been exposed to catastrophic conditions in the form of major damage and fatal accidents in snowmobiles and extreme weather conditions this winter. On 30 March 2000, the State Council visited Hammerfest to gain an overview of the situation through self-confidence and conversations. How does the Council of State assess the extreme situation in West Finland, Troms and North Norway, what measures will the Government take, and what funding needs exist?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1180	The visit to Hammerfest made a strong impression on me, and there is no doubt that there is a very acute and I would say quite extreme situation. Among other things, I had: talks with the rapporteur, seafaringly, in Hammerfest and with the locals, both with those who were evacuated – at that time almost 160 people – and with those who were not, but lived in houses that were quite exposed to. I also had discussions both with the police and with those who stood by, and with the rapporteurs in Lyngen and Tromsø, respectively, about the situation there. When I went up there, it was to put myself in a better position in the situations of the sloppy areas, especially in Hammerfest, as well as to gather knowledge and impressions to get a better basis for the decisions we're going to make. I had expertise from both the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the State Building Technical Office and the State Natural Damage Fund. I want to say that I have a great understanding of the special situation that Hammerfest and parts of Finnmark and Troms are now in. It made a strong impression to talk to those who were most affected by this, and by sea vision also to see houses that had been crushed to the pinewood by enormous snow masses. I will therefore, in cooperation with other relevant government councils, assess in a short time both short-term and long-term measures on what the State can also contribute. I don't have an amount to give today, but I promise a quick feedback, because there is a clear need for exceptional measures. We do not intend to sit still and look at this situation and will come back with something as soon as practicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1187	I would like to thank you for your answer, not least because it would take a short time to assess both short-term and long-term measures and make proposals for exceptional appropriations. The situation is extreme, and as the Council of State probably heard from the rapporteur in Lyngen, where the biggest fatal accident has been, children no longer have safe school roads, preparedness is insufficient, home help and necessary medicines are not coming out. The trombone itself was on Senja the same days as the council was in Hammerfest. The fishing industry lost millions because roads were closed. I allow myself to ask questions as to whether the measures will not only aim to cover exceptional brooding costs in the municipalities, but will also include other groups suffering loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1192	I believe the representative Andersen and I can quickly agree that the situation in parts of Finnmark and Troms this winter has been and in part is extreme. It takes the government seriously. On the issue of the more concrete measures being assessed, I cannot comment on it any more today, but I am holding on to what I said: The government will have a quick review of this and then come back with some suggestions in a very short time. But I'm asking for understanding that we can't go into any individual measures now, because we're just not finished with that round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1197	The representative of Østberg understands that the Council of State cannot address the concrete measures now. At the same time, I would like to ask the Council of State questions on the basis of what climate scientists such as Olav Orheim and Terje Brinck Løening said to Nordlys on 24 March, that this is the type of winter you have to go north to: «The snow will continue to sink in the years to come because of the anthropogenic greenhouse effect,» these climate scientists believe. Will the Government include this in the long-term measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1204	Let me first correct a mistake I made instead, when I said the representative Andersen instead of the representative of Østberg, whom I know very well. I realize that there are a lot of ideas and views about what's causing what, and what's going to happen in the future, etc. Now I don't know if the representative of Østberg here aimed at a very topical matter, namely the gas power plant – I have heard it has also been used in this context. Of course, we will consider all aspects of the many input that come from both researchers and experts in different areas, which we need to include in the assessments we make. But I think it is important here to distinguish between some emergency measures and what is more long-term, and there I think we need to have a little different proposals for action. But I want to inform you about that as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1215	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Norwegian municipal sector is characterised by rigid municipal monopolies. The municipal establishment structure is low in time and, in its present form, is not suitable for conversion work and efficiency measures. Most service-provided municipal offices should therefore be reorganised and released in order to be able to be exposed to price and quality competition from private operators. Is increased competitive exposure a migration strategy that is currently being applied in the Government's announced work on the renewal of the public sector?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1224	Work on the renewal of the public sector includes, inter alia: as a goal of better aligning the needs and wishes of the population with the production of welfare services by the public, which means that people are satisfied with the public. It's essentially about being even more good at putting users or residents in the center. For the Government, the starting point is that we need a strong public sector to ensure fair distribution and to have as much equivalent services as possible. But that doesn't mean, of course, that the municipalities are going to do absolutely all the tasks they do, which they don't do today either. Local authorities are different in terms of land, population structure and infrastructure and therefore need to be able to determine to a large extent how service production is to be organised. However, for the Government, it is important to stress that municipalities should not leave the management and control of welfare services to others. The scope and design of the public service offer are and shall be the responsibility of the elected representatives. Competition exposure, which Andersen, the representative of, is concerned with, is not the main weapon of the Government – to put it mildly – in the fight to modernise the public sector, and in particular not when we are talking about basic welfare services, for example. in areas such as the elderly and health. Municipalities must change and develop at all times in order to deliver the required service to users and with the expected quality. The government’s principle position in relation to the outsourcing of competition is that the most important tool for performing the best possible and cost-effective service production is not competitive outsourcing and privatisation, but rather greater commitment to own employees through motivation, schooling, trust and good framework conditions. We also believe that the necessary modernisation of the public sector will help prevent extensive privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1233	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I would say that the answer was not very good in relation to the renewal of the public sector that the new government has so ambitiously put on the agenda. For many years, Norwegian municipalities have been working on conversion precisely to achieve greater efficiency. But have they actually succeeded when we look at today's record deficit of NOK 10-12 billion? For almost all municipal conversion work, it has always had to be done within the narrow framework of the etat and monopoly system. Thus, within this monopoly system, it has been easier to work to obtain more transfers from the State rather than to look at how municipalities themselves can save money. In reality, the monopoly system has made it impossible to challenge municipal service production on price and quality criteria. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State to confirm that at least she does not have the same, let me say, locked up the notions of protecting the existing municipal monopoly systems, such as. Norsk Kommunebund so unreconciled has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1240	The government does not believe that everything should be as it is, either in the municipal sector or in the general government sector. That's exactly why one of the main pillars of the government statement that the Prime Minister briefed on from this pulpit was that we have to completely modernise or renew the public sector. It is true that some municipalities have worked on this for a long time, with slightly different results. But many have achieved something. But it's clear that this is still a way to go. And what's important is that in everything we do, we're better at putting our users at the centre of our minds in relation to the wishes and demands that are there, and it's clear that if we don't do it, it will mean extensive privatisation in key areas as well. The government is also concerned that we need less bureaucracy and less control, and that instead we need to use more people and more resources in direct services to people. There we are already in the process of a review, and of course we will follow that up in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1249	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Modernisation of the public and, above all, the municipal sector is a major task to be addressed, especially here in Norway, where we have waited too long to challenge public service production with competition. Thus, within the framework of this monopoly, public service production has had its own life as a sheltered business, and it is hardly possible to talk about modernisation without involving elements of more market and increased competition. In my view, it is almost illusory to talk about modernising the public sector without at the same time involving more market management and adaptation. Competition must be carried out with a high degree of weight in the public sector. For the Council of State does not believe that the strict competition law applicable to the private sector has harmed the private sector? Is it, then, that almost all the services provided by the public sector could well be provided by private individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1256	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are separating layers of belief that the market will solve most, and in particular what we believe in in the Workers' Party is the fundamental welfare services. It's about, for example, on school, health and the elderly, to take some examples. We are concerned that everyone, wherever you live, how rich you are, how old you are, etc., should have equal access to basic welfare services. Then we don't think it's pure market thinking that answers those challenges. When we put the modernisation of the public sector on the agenda, it is in recognition that there is a part that needs to be changed in the public sector in order to make our citizens more satisfied. Let me use just one little example, because the time is button. When a large number of people experience — and rightly react — that they have to go from one public office to another, for example. work, social security and social security offices, and tell life's history again and again, it's a very good example that we can't have it that way. As a general rule, these must be able to go to one person and one door. That's the kind of thing we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1264	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Porskände requires 700 kroner in procedural fees to process applications to use own garden as storage space for own private boats. The municipality interprets boat loading to be subject to compulsory application under the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. To charge a building fee to allow private boat storage in their own garden, many people react with wonder. Is it the law of the planning and building law to require that the laying of a small boat in its own garden is subject to an application requirement as long as there is no neighbouring complaint?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1273	The laying up of a boat in its own garden can be a measure covered by Section 85 of the Planning and Building Act as it sounds today. Here it says that some temporary devices cannot be placed for longer than three months without prior consent from the municipality. I assume that this does not apply to very small boats that can be difficult for the environment. In Section 109 of the Act, the City Council has the authority to adopt municipal fee regulations. A fee may be fixed for work which the municipality is obliged to carry out under the law. When the municipality receives an enquiry or an application to charge a boat for more than three months, the handling of such a case will be a work for which the municipality can charge a fee, but this is up to the municipalities themselves to assess. These rules apply regardless of whether any complaints have been made to the municipality at the time of placement. However, I can inform the representative Andersen that I want to take a closer look at some of the rules on actions subject to application and notification under the Planning and Building Act, inter alia. the rule that applies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1286	I thank the Council once again for the answer. As far as the answer provided by the Council of State is concerned, I have been given an answer to my specific question. The answer is, as it is available, very disappointing for the country's hundreds of thousands of boat owners, who may have to cancel to apply for and pay the fee in order to be allowed to put the boat in their own garden. Of course, many boat owners will shake their heads about the risk of having to apply to the municipality for permission to place the boat in their own garden. My question is: are those who don't care about applying to the higher bureaucratic powers for permission to put up their own boat in their own garden, to consider small-time criminals? I could imagine an answer to that. Otherwise, I consider this case to be a matter that falls under the ‘Heia Norway’ category. I just want to be allowed to add that I am happy that the Council of State said she would look at this – I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1297	I am afraid that the representative, Andersen, may have misunderstood what I said. In my reply, I referred to what is today’s legislation – what is in force today. But I also tried to say that it is quite easy to agree that the applicable rule to require notification to or prior consent from the municipality for the loading of a small boat on its own land may seem unreasonable. The rule is also, in my view, quite unyielding and quite difficult to understand. It's based on what I'm signaling that this is what I want to go through, because it doesn't seem very reasonable as it is per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1305	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health: ‘According to a statement in the daily newspaper of 14 March 2000, the municipality of Morene and Romesdal have decided that, in the case of dental care for nursing persons, damaged teeth that could have been repaired shall be drawn and holes that do not cause toothache shall not be drilled. This seems to be contrary to the law on dental care, which states that this group should have a free dental treatment and receive the necessary dental treatment. Does the Council of State think this is a worthy offer to our caregivers?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1314	The question raised by the representative Nesvik concerns the duties of the municipality of More and Romsdal according to the law on dental care. As the decision is described in the Newspaper, it involves a drastic reduction in the provision of dental care to the elderly, long-term ill and disabled in institutions and in home care. These groups, according to the Dental Services Act, are entitled to free dental care. The county shall offer them a regular and outreach offer. § 2-1 of the law states that the groups have the right to necessary dental care. Needed dental care is a legal standard, where content may vary over time. However, the pre-worker of the Dental Service Act states that the term ‘necessary dental care’ means more than emergency treatment. As a minimum, it involves investigation, prevention, emergency treatment and regular treatment in order to maintain the dental kit. Ordinary treatment means, for example: repairs necessary with tooth fillings, root fillings and treatment of gum disease. Needed dental care will also include prostheses to replace teeth pulled. Pleasure seekers may have major problems caring for their own dental health. They're also in a life situation where dental health can be extra exposed. At the same time, it's important that they have a set of teeth that makes it possible to have a good diet. Socially, it also means a lot too nagging that they have a satisfactory dental health. Humanly speaking, it is also about securing a dignity in critical phases of life. That's why we have a law that gives the county a duty to outreach these groups. The way More and Romsdal County Council's offers are made, I cannot see that the law's requirements are met. In that case, it is also not a worthwhile offer, as asked by the representative Nesvik. I have understood that other county councils have also taken decisions that may involve a dental offer that is not in accordance with the law. The Ministry will therefore send a letter during these days to the counties where the department's interpretation of the law's rights is clarified. I would also like to raise this matter with the State Health Authority as the country's top supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1325	I thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I am pleased that the Council of State will address this matter to the county councils, and that the State Health Authority will now look into this matter. It is important for this group of people, who are among the weakest in this society. In fact, many of the elderly and nursing and mentally retarded people have major problems explaining their problems. Then we can also imagine the situation of having to live with pain as a result of the fact that the individual county council does not follow up its duty under the law of dentistry in this country. I hope that the Council of State will quickly go out and at least have a review in the individual municipalities, and that the State Health Authority will take a quick look at this, so that the decisions already taken in some municipalities on savings in this area are now stopped, so that our elderly and caregivers get the offer they require.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1332	I can only agree with the comments now made by the representative, Nesvik, and once again confirm that the department sends its letter to all the county councils these days, and that we will immediately follow it up through the Health Authority. Of course, we should also follow it up through our ongoing contact with the county authorities on the matter below.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1340	I have the following questions for the new Minister of Health of the country: ‘The Eastfold Hospital has two ambulances in Halden that are prepared for ECG and treatment of myocardial infarction. Experience is good, and rapid treatment in the ambulance gives a greater chance of surviving a heart attack. Will the Council of State take the initiatives to be taken, together with the county councils, to have ECG in ambulances so that diagnosis can be made as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1349	Rapid treatment of patients with myocardial infarction is important, and it is therefore a goal to reduce the time between symptoms occurring until the patient is diagnosed and treated. This can be achieved by rapid response upon receipt of messages in AMK – Emergency Medical Communication Centres – and Medical Watch Centres and in case of early warning to receiving hospitals. Several studies have shown that the higher the effectiveness of anti-thrombotic therapy, the earlier this treatment is started. This can happen outside hospitals, for example: by means of ECG in the ambulance service. Such a form of treatment may be initiated either by a medical practitioner or by an ambulance staff member after special prescription by a doctor. This is currently being tested in several areas of the country, including: in Eastfold, Telemark, More and Romesdal and by several ambulance helicopters. The treatment offer is organised differently. In Eastfold, the ambulance staff conduct an ECG survey, which is then sent via mobile phone to the hospital. Here ECG is assessed by a specialist in heart disease, who can then assess whether blood clot-dissolve treatment should be initiated. Elsewhere, doctors at medical or ambulance helicopters operate the treatment on the basis of their own interpretation of the ECG. Such treatment involves a certain risk of serious heart rhythm disturbances or a fall in blood pressure. It is therefore essential that, in addition to being able to use the ECG, health professionals also have the competence to use other devices to observe and treat complications. In other words, non-hospital blood-closing treatments are not just a question about ECG devices in ambulances. It is also important that medical and ambulance staff have the necessary competence both in the use of ECG and in dealing with possible complications of the treatment to be given. This requires training measures and enhancing the level of competence in the service. The tests I have mentioned here will be continued as planned. In the paper on emergency preparedness, I will then come back to the question of how we can expand this service in several states.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1362	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to say that I am partly satisfied with what was said. The council and I probably have the same opinion, that ambulances that have ECG equipment installed can provide patients with much greater security. The gain is great, even though it should be a short way to an emergency reception. But it is those who live far from the hospital who will make the most of the offer. Without ECG, persons affected by a heart attack must be transported all the way to the hospital before being diagnosed or given the necessary treatment. These may include vital minutes so that the patient can be given, for example, blood-diluting medicines as early as possible. It is to hope that the pain and loss of human life is not linked solely to the economy of a welfare society. I hope, at least, that the Council of State believes that human dignity is greater than that, and hopes that he can take more concrete initiatives to get ahead of the system, and that it will apply to all the country's hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1371	It seems that there is consensus in the analysis and in particular the need here. I guess there will also be agreement that this, as I said in my first answer, is not just a question about ECG devices. ECGs in ambulances without the necessary competence of those to use it and make diagnostics can easily give a false sense of security that no one has served. That is why I make it so clear that both the acquisition of ECG equipment and the necessary training and associated systems must be in place to give the desired effect. And then I can only confirm that the work on extending the systems that are now under trial will be implemented, and I will come back to it in connection with the paper on emergency medical services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1376	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It looks like we have the same view of the need for ECG. It's more about now, according to the Council of State's response, the necessary training, to which the Council of State attaches great importance. And I am pleased that he is moving forward, but – as an extension of the need for ECG – what will the Council of State do to possibly advance the necessary training? It must be that the individual ambulances have this offer as quickly as possible, and I hope that this will not primarily be a debate on money, whether we have the means and the means to prioritise it, but that there are actually concrete proposals in the budget next year concerning this point, and that the initiative will be taken, if necessary, by the Council of State at next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1383	I can't now go into the treatment of next year's budget. However, I would like to emphasise once again that this is a task that we take seriously and that we will consider the continuation of in the light of the experience gained by the experimentation. I'll come back to that. It will of course also be a question of money, I think it is wrong to believe that such measures do not also have an economic side. However, it does not prevent this from being a very important task, which will be given high priority in the work on the emergency message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1398	This question falls away. Question 17 has been answered earlier in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1406	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Hedmarks companies ViaCon as and Pecor AS at Matrand are refused by the NSB to use the factory track into the pipeline company. However, loading and unloading of goods must take place on Kongswinger. This is not in line with the political desire to send as much goods as possible by rail. Can the Council of States do anything to enable these companies, which wish to use the railway for the transport of their products, to do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1415	Initially, I would like to point out that in the context of the establishment of NSB BA, it was considered that the company’s good activities should be carried out on the basis of business-economic principles without government grants. This implies that NSB Freight must be given the opportunity to adapt to market requirements for both transport solutions and prices in order to compete with car and boat transport. I see it as important that NSB Gods take advantage of its market advantage, that is. within the market segment, transport of large volumes over long distances. This is also a strategy that Stortinget has previously endorsed in principle, at the latest in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1998-99 About the economy of NSA BA. I have been informed by the NSB that the companies ViaCon as and Pecor AS at Matrand can no longer be operated at traditional wagon loads on sidings. This is due to the fact that the volumes are too small to justify the cost of such arrangements in respect of additional shunting locomotives and personnel. The NSB will offer to these customers a new container-based or semi-trailer-based transport system which is lifted on trains. Such a solution would enable these transports to be included in the network of train commuters of the NSB and thus to be offered at market prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1422	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In 1999, 645 trucks went out of the pipe factory with cargo. In 1998, 478 went on, showing little progress in road freight traffic since the closure of the service on the road. The company believes that it could receive and send 100 freight wagons this year if the siding had been in use. 100 freight wagons should, in my opinion, be a satisfactory number for the NSB. What does the Council of State think would be a satisfactory number of freight wagons in order for the siding in this case to be in operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1429	I have no assumptions to assess exactly what quantity is needed to ensure that the operation of NSB Gods is economically sound and has a system of its own arrangement with shunting locomotives and personnel. On the other hand, I am confident that the company NSB BA will make the necessary assessments of this and offer what is sound from what the market otherwise offers. I would also like to show that the NSB Gods intends to offer an offer that also involves train transport, however in a combination with car transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1434	I thank the Council of State for what I interpret as a positive response. Government policies have signalled that more freight traffic must go on rail ahead of road, cf. the transport message. In order to be able to cope with this situation, the NSB must also demonstrate flexibility. Moreover, this is not only about transport itself, but also about jobs in rural areas, environmental pollution, etc. Here, as said, the NSB, as a government body, must be involved in maintaining and facilitating districts, when the economic balance should be balanced in the case of the NSB. What is the Council of State's view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1441	I fully agree with the representative that the goal is clear to get more goods on track. It is therefore also important that the NSB develop transport solutions that are appropriate and that can provide these combined options as I mentioned. I hope that this will happen in the near future, so that these companies can meet their transport needs in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1449	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The NSB is, in accordance with current regulations, the only allowed passenger carrier on the Gjøvik Railway. Does the NSB’s wagon material on the Gjøvikbanen satisfy today’s fire safety requirements?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1461	The question asked by the respondent is highly relevant and serious, which we received a strong reminder of after the accident that happened last night at Lillestrøm station. The NSB is required to impose fire safety requirements on its own materials. This is based on international guidelines and was last updated before the formal division between the NSB and the Railway Agency in 1996. These fire requirements are designed for new and converted materials. Therefore, in general, fire safety requirements for new materials are stricter than those for which old materials were approved. The Gjøvik track is operated by electric locomotives and mainly by B3 vehicles, built more than 30 years ago. This material was rebuilt and upgraded in the 1970s according to its requirements. The B3 vehicles have had a good history of operation in terms of fire. The other wagons running the Gjøvik track are newer and have the same or better standard than B3. For its part, the State Railway Authority has informed that changes in fire requirements — as in other areas of society such as electrical installations in houses — have not been given retroactive effect. The said B3 material is planned to be phased out of operation in the next few years as material renewal in the NSB takes place. I'm also familiar with the fact that the NSB is now conducting a systematic review of fire safety materials. According to the NSB's plans, during a two-year period, the renewal and replacement of the stock park will take place which will result in a new or passed fire-technical assessment for the purposes of upgrading.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1478	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It turns out that there are different regulations that apply to old and new materials and that changed fire requirements have not been given retroactive effect with regard to the old material, so the fire safety of part of the vehicle material on the Gjøvik track is poor. In the AST accident, there was also old material and poor fire safety. Today there has been a new accident – unfortunately, on Lillestrøm. Now the Council of State said that the NSB had some plans going on. Will the Council of State expedite this, as it has focused on very many accidents? One cannot wait, as it were, for the material to be changed in quite many years. But is it now in the cards that you want to try to speed this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1487	As I said in my main response, the regulations are different, because you relate to the regulations at the time the material was built or upgraded. I can confirm that this work is of high priority. It is a tragic fact that we have received serious reminders during this year about the necessity of this work. We will follow developments in this area very closely and ensure that the replacement is done according to plans as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1494	I thank you for the answer, and I have to say I am very pleased that the Council of State will give this high priority, as he says, and that he will speed up the work on safety on the railway network. But there's another thing about this: Will the Council of State change the regulations so that we can get other actors on the railway line? Today, the Railway Agency and the NSB are formally separated, but the regulations give the NSB some kind of exclusive or monopoly or veto, so that they can refuse other actors. I have previously asked for those regulations to be amended. This matter is now in the department, and the regulations are out at the hearing of the Railway Agency and the NSB. In the light of what has now happened, will the Council of State look at the possibility of changing these regulations, and get ahead of it, so that we can get actors other than the NSB here, and then maybe actors representing a higher level of security?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1503	I would first like to make it clear that there are strict safety requirements, and that I have confidence that the NSB is complying with the safety requirements for its material. As far as the regulations mentioned here are concerned, as far as I know, they are out for consultation. The detailed assessments will be carried out at the end of this consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1516	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘E6 between the Rye Cross and Bryn in Oslo is probably the route where most people are exposed to noise. What measures will be promoted to remedy the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1525	E6 passes through a larger residential area on that section. The route is operated on a daily basis by approx. 60000 vehicles and at a speed of 80 km/h. As a result, dwellings near the road are exposed to high noise levels. Also dwellings further away from the road are exposed to noise as a result of the topographical conditions. Definitive measures have been implemented with noise screens on the route, but many are still exposed to noise from E6. I have been informed by the Directorate of Roads that Statens vägvesen Oslo has started an investigation work that assesses measures both in the short and long term in order to reduce the problems that traffic creates for the housing area. Dwellings with the highest noise levels, i.e. above the action level in the limit value regulation under the pollution law, there will be provision for façade insulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1532	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He and I have a common reality description of the distance. I choose to take up this route because in Stortinget we often treat tribal road sections – which are important enough – that go through areas where there are far fewer people, and how often there is a willingness to use considerable resources to ensure that there is no environmental burden. My question is whether the Council of State is prepared to assess whether it could be appropriate to take the route between the Rye Cross and Bryn into a tunnel to relieve this area, and leave there an element in the assessment basis that is part of the work that I believe is affordable and in which I agree with him in terms of the short-term, and what has been done. My question is: shouldn't such an environmental tunnel within this area – precisely because it's a tribal road, and because we know that tunnels are being discussed in tribal sections elsewhere – also be relevant in the metropolitan city of Oslo, when there are so many people involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1541	I would like to confirm – or perhaps rather acknowledge – that there are also, to the most extent, tribal roads in Oslo. With regard to the concrete question of the tunnel by the representative Odd Einar Dørum, I am not familiar with any concrete assessments of it. That is why, at this stage, I have no further comments on it, other than that we on the noise side will come back to the issue in the national transport plan, when it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1548	I have a deep understanding that the Council of State can't answer the question of the tunnel, because it's barely figured out. But the idea must be born somewhere, and it is born locally among dedicated people. I know that the State Road Administration Oslo is committed to carrying out an impact assessment in the area, and I perceive the Council of State's principal responses as well as accepting the environmental challenges that exist in metropolitan areas. I want to focus on – I don't have any additional questions – to put it this way: I hope that the Council of State can bring with it just such an assessment – it can be thought that everything is the right thing. It is very special that you have a tribal route through a metropolitan area, because there are so many people who are exposed to environmental stress. That's why I dared to say 'probably that route of the tribal route' where this is the case. On other stuttering sections there are other loads. These often come into focus when, for example: splits small rural communities – among others. E16 in Hordaland – but I also feel that when you split urban communities, it is very important that the issue of defending this urban environment is put on the agenda, and I encourage the Council of State to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1559	Does the Council of State wish to respond?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1562	I take with me the comments made by the representative Odd Einar Dørum. We clearly recognise – and I hope we will also show that when we present the Communication on the National Transport Plan – the traffic, safety and not least the environmental challenges we face in our major cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1572	I want to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The honeycomb tariff was abolished in 1999 for passing road beams. This has a weight of strong reactions among pensioners, and especially among the minimum pensioners and the underprivileged. The government of Bondevik did nothing to go back to the old scheme of honeymoon tariffs. Will the Council of State address this and reintroduce a honeymoon tariff for passing road beams?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1581	The Ministry of Transport has delegated the tariff authority to the Directorate of Roads with effect from 1 March 1991. The Ministry of Transport expressed in a letter of 5 February 1991, in connection with the delegation, that it would be an objective to adapt the tariff and discount systems of projects previously adopted to the guidelines as far as the economy of the project is concerned. A distinction has been made between holiday relief projects and other projects with regard to the payment of passengers. The general rule is that passengers should be exempted from payment. However, in holiday relief projects, passenger payments may be introduced if there is local agreement on this and the economy of the project depends on such payment. The general discount system for passenger and vehicle tariffs in ferry relief projects is based on the system of the ferry tariff regulator. However, this has a comprehensive and complex discount system, linked to personal tariffs and a honeymoon discount. Experience with existing toll projects shows that comprehensive tariff and discount systems can cause significant traffic disruption problems, with the costs involved. Furthermore, the collection costs of toll companies will be increased by complex systems. In addition, discount schemes could lead to weaker performance in many projects. In view of this, there has been a desire to simplify the charging system for toll projects. Based on the tariff delegation and the guidelines of Stortinget, the Directorate of Road has developed a manual No. 199, ‘Target guidelines for toll projects on public roads’. These tariff guidelines shall be applied to all new projects. It is also an objective to have the tariff and discount system revised by as many existing projects as possible. In the light of the desire for simplification, the tariff guidelines establish that no rebates, rebates are granted to eligible personnel or civil servants. Where reference is made in the question to the withdrawal of the honey discount in 1999, this is not a new general scheme. However, I am aware that from 1 July 1999, the Road Directorate approved new tariffs and discount systems in the Ålesund-Ellingsøya-Valderøy-Giske-Godøy toll link in More and Romesdal, because the tariffs were not in accordance with Manual No. 199. One of the consequences of this was that it was no longer given a honeymoon discount. The project in Ålesund was until last summer the only project in the country that had a honeymoon discount. I have no plans to revise the guidelines I have shown regarding the honeymoon discount in ferries redemption projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1596	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that I am particularly disappointed in this answer. And when the Council of State withdraws the connection he makes, and mentions this with the loss of income and the difficulty of collection because it became a comprehensive discount system, I have to say that it also amazes me. By and large, the bus company is charging the passengers, and at least they have no problem doing so. I just note that the Council of State is not willing to deal with this matter. One thing that should also be aware of is that it's the bomb company per. definition is bankruptcy, and that there wasn't a full write-off on it, is a question that has always puzzled me. But that company has a debt, and thus the income there has nothing to say, as seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1605	As I said in my main reply, the Toll link Ålesund-Ellingsøya-Valderøy-Giske-Godøy was the only one that practiced the honeymoon discount until the summer of 1999. So there was no general change in the tariff and discount system last summer. If one were to reintroduce such a honeymoon discount, it would not be to remove a scheme, but to introduce a scheme that could probably not only apply to this ferry service, but would have more general impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1610	I am also well aware that this was not a general scheme, but when we have these arrangements within other travel modes, among other things. on ferries and buses, I found it strange that one could not have such arrangements when it comes to toll companies. Passengers have to pay half the price of the bus, they have to pay the full price to a toll company, if necessary they will travel on a ferry, and then they get half the price there – so one has to figure out how to coordinate this ticket system once in a while. There'll be something amazing for me if you don't have a similar system all over the place. Does it mean that not enough that the Labour Party will refuse the retirementists to get a little more reasonable travel so that they can get around and visit relatives and friends, they will also take away the honeymoon tariffs on the other means of transport where we have this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1615	As I was also concerned with my main response, in terms of tariff systems, one has to make a balance between the concerns of users, traffic conditions and the economy. It's this balance that has underpinned the guidelines we're now practicing. With regard to the question of whether the Workers' Party intends to remove other discount schemes, I can show that the Bondevik government has promoted this in the context of the 2000 budget. Then it was rejected, and we have no plans to go away from this budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1625	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Ryfylke is an area in Rogaland where increased busses can relieve the North Jären press area. Security and stability when it comes to communications are a feature for both residents and businesses. In the island municipality of Finnøy, the removal of one of three ferries will provide a dramatically poorer route offer. The proposed reduction of the fast boat supply in Ryfylke has led to a great deal of unrest. Will the Council of State take the initiative to secure funds and forms of cooperation that ensure the safety of citizens in relation to boat and ferry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1634	The notified removal of one of three ferries in the Finn Island Link has its background in disagreement between the State and the County Municipality about the county council payment for the arrival of state road ferries. The Finn Island compound is a so-called mixed compound where the rickway ferries serve both rickway and county veggies. The case specifically concerns the fact that, over several years, the county council has paid less for calls by county councils than the general guidelines for such payments from 1989 indicate. These are guidelines that all county municipalities have to comply with in a similar situation to that of Rogaland. Since the calculation of payment according to the guidelines was carried out in 1998-99, the Road Administration has addressed the question of the correct payment with the county municipality. This has not succeeded. The Road Administration then announced that the holiday offer in the Finn Island connection would be reduced from 1 April 2000 if the county did not increase its payment. For practical reasons, the Ministry has instructed the State Road Administration to continue the offer in the Finn Island Connection until 1 July without increasing the county municipal payment. However, after that time, the general guidelines for payment to the State Road Service for the call of state road hauliers have to be taken into account in the Finnish Association. If the county then does not increase its payment, route reductions will have to be carried out in the county holiday operation of the Finn Island connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1641	I would like to thank you for your answer and express my understanding that there must be common guidelines from state to state. My question trolled both the ferry and the fast boat supply, where it is also a dramatic change. Higher oil prices than the one that was planned when the government budget was presented this year, a paycheck that increases the costs of the county councils and a brief review of the hospital economy from the government’s side – all these are factors that have a lot to say for the county councils’ economy, which means that they go through carefully what is required by law and what is not. Will the government in the revised budget and in the national transport plan look at what can be done to ensure good communications both in the short and longer term?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1652	I am pleased that we have a common understanding of the conditions under which the road links must be subject. With regard to issues related to the revised national budget, it is difficult for me to address specific issues in this way. But of course we are well aware of the increase in costs that has occurred with regard to boat and ferry traffic, among other things. for the reasons referred to by the representative Meltveit Kleppa. I would also like to refer to the answer I gave in the Questionnaire a week ago on the economy of the ferries, namely that we will assess the situation with the very first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1661	I thank you for the confirmation I got here, in relation to what will be assessed in the revised budget. Let me point out that Rogaland is a ferry group, where islands and fjords make the population in several municipalities dependent on boat and ferry. And Ryfylke is one of several regions where there is a strong commitment to increased settlement and a more varied business. Young people can get ready-to-use plots – even children's playgrounds. There is a strong commitment, among other things: in aquaculture, which is an industry with a high potential for more jobs. Good communication is absolutely crucial to the future-future and the optimism that has been present and that is yet to be. I'd like to ask the Minister of Transport to take part in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1670	Besides the fact that Rogaland is a ferocious group, it is also a state that has great growth and high growth potential, not least for new parts of the economy. I fully agree that a growth in nutrition in the districts is heavily dependent on good communications. That is what we want with regard to the revised national budget, but not least when we present our national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1687	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1694	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In recent years, government agencies have taken a number of decisions using national policy guidelines, such as the stoppage of the establishment of centres of purchase and guidelines for spatial planning. Does the Council of State see that such an active use of national policy guidelines in the long term is intended to undermine the municipal self-government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1703	It is a national responsibility to manage the land resources in a sustainable way, and municipalities are responsible for making plans for the use and protection of the land. These spatial plans shall respect both local, regional and national interests. In this work, it is important that the state's expectations of the municipalities are clearly expressed in advance of the different planning processes. When introducing such guidelines, a careful balance must be made between the relationship between municipal autonomy and the need for national governance. I do not think that a clear dissemination of national land policy has contributed to undermining local self-government. Interactions between national, regional and local authorities can turn land use in a more sustainable direction. With regard to the representative Solholm’s reference to the temporary stoppage for purchasing centres, I would like to remind you that Stortinget during the treatment of St.meld. No 29 for 1996-97, regional planning and land policy, decided to ask the government to consider introducing such a rule. The reason for this was an increase in the number of large purchasing centres outside the existing centre areas. Such establishments often had adverse effects in relation to the development of the centre areas, the development of neighbouring municipalities, and brought with them more car use. This stoppage of establishment is temporary. County plans are being developed to enable the location of purchasing centres to be seen in a regional context. These plans will replace the stoppage of establishment. The level work is carried out by the county councils in close cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1716	There's one thing that amazes me, and that's where local democracy doesn't work, like for example. in the health and care sector, where we will have no government guidelines. But in the area where local democracy actually works, where I think local politicians do have such a good deal to do in a resilient housing of our natural resources and our national territory, so we're going to have national guidelines. I don't understand this, because where one should perhaps have national guidelines, it's the responsibility of caring for our elderly, the disabled and the sick, there's no such thing as taking care of national guidelines. We're going to leave that to democracy, and they're not going to be able to implement it. But in this area, where local politicians have actually shown that they are doing what we need to do. So an additional question: when can you expect the temporary stoppage to be lifted? ?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1723	The Labour Party government has signaled that we want to strengthen local democracy and, in light of that, look at the division of tasks between the levels of national democracy. There is no area to be excluded from that assessment, nor environmental policy. But I think it's important to look at how the current arrangements have worked in the light of national, regional and local objectives. This is a work we want to follow up, just as we want to follow up the temporary stoppage for purchasing centres in assessing the county plans, so that we gradually get into another system in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1728	I don't disagree with the Council of State that we should strengthen local democracy. It is precisely the Progress Party that has been the biggest driver when it comes to renewing local democracy, renewing the division of tasks between the different levels, assessing the county municipalities' future, etc. I am surprised that politicians at national level believe that when local politicians are unable to do their job, we will be involved in government governance, and especially in areas where local authorities are found to be able to do their job. It seems that the temporary stoppage of purchasing centres has actually hindered the development of some areas. That in some areas there have actually been too many buyers, is probably possible. But the politicians, by the people, have said yes to it. There's local democracy. We don't have to have state guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1735	It is precisely because we believe that the local politicians in the municipalities are doing their job in a good way, that we in the Labour Party government want to strengthen local democracy, and this is an area we will follow up. However, the representative Solholm and I may disagree on the importance of this purchasing centre policy to meet both national and local targets. This has not least been a support to the municipalities in relation to the desire to preserve the centre areas of the municipalities, and also to see cooperation between the municipalities in a slightly wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1743	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: «In Hedmark, many are anxious about the so-called wolf zone plan. Will the Council of State take into account, among other things, children and parents, buffalo drivers, hunters and others who are very negative that we get areas where the wolf can travel freely, and does the Council of State believe that predators will stay within this zone at all times?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1752	The management of wolves is based on Stortingen’s treatment of the 1997 report of wild game. The size assumed that viable populations of all four major predatory species should be ensured in Norway, while at the same time having active agriculture with opportunities to exploit grazing resources in the countryside. The majority of the population assumed that each individual of the wolf must have strict protection until now, and reference was made to the common objectives of the Norwegian and Swedish authorities to establish at least eight-ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. The size also decided not to facilitate the establishment of couples or family groups in Sami domestically operated areas. Otherwise, today the wolf has strict protection throughout the country. In view of population developments in recent years, a more active management strategy is now needed. In order to increase predictability in the buffer industry, pairs and family groups of wolves shall not be allowed to establish themselves in those areas which conflict most with the sheep industry. This is an important element in the work on more differentiated management. There is also a need for more active management in areas where the current strict protection is to be maintained in order to ensure that we follow up the aim of the Storting. I would like to draw up a model for such differentiated management with specific zone boundaries which may guide management even during this year's grazing season, and send the proposal out to a broad consultation. A proposal to amend the game law will be submitted to Stortinget before Easter. The aim is to ensure the possibility of differentiated and flexible management of the large predators, so that consideration of agriculture and domestic farming can be better achieved than at present. With regard to the issue of whether predators will stay within a defined zone, it is necessary to take into account the proposals for changes in the wild law to be submitted, together with the model for a differentiated management. This will be the important instruments in the further management of the wolf. The representative, Mr Bredvold, is also afraid of the management of the wolf. We must work to counteract fear, for example. by information and guidance. I want a broad dialogue with all stakeholders before defining the final wolf management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1769	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for her positive commitment, but I think maybe the buffalo drivers are not completely reassured by the answer. The Council of State does not consider them to be, for example, Drives with bumps, gets very short time to decorate after any wolf zone? Finding new pastures as well as many other practical things will necessarily take some time. Is the Council of State in agreement with these problems, and what will the Council of State actually do to correct them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1776	I can assure the representative Bredvold that the elements he addresses in his supplementary question are of those I will assess in my further work, both in connection with changes in the game law and in connection with the preparation of a zone plan for this year's grazing season. I can also inform you that in the very near future I will have a dialogue with interested interests in Hedmark – that is the next week – and I will also have a dialogue with interested interests in Eastfold very early in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1783	I thank the Council of State once again for the answer, and I am pleased that in the weeks to come she will meet with stakeholders both in Hedmark and Eastfold, two states that are strongly affected by this. There are many things in this matter that can be discussed. I'm going to bring out one concrete thing, and that's compensation for the loss of grazing rights and the practical use of grazing. Is the Council of State aware that there may be legal proceedings in relation to such losses?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1790	I am prepared to deal with all the consequences of the predatory policy that we are now in the process of concreteising. Also in the light of the last supplementary question, I think it is very important that we get changes in the game law and a zoning plan that can apply from the season of the year, because we have a basis to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1798	I have the following questions for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘Gilde has been revealed to have deep-frozen up to 2,5 tonnes of fresh banking meat three days before the expiry date. The meat was then sold as a freezer to the Spar chain. Last year, valids sold 34 tonnes of ‘old’ deep-frozen pigmeat as fresh fresh grill slices. In both cases, Gilde Agro's joint slaughterhouse in Lillesand is crammed. Will the State Council consider new control procedures that could provide greater safety for consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1807	The representative Hedstrøm addresses a matter of great principleal importance. I will therefore go through the matter as I know it. The Ministry of Agriculture has obtained information from the State Food Authority, which has confirmed that the municipal food surveillance in West Agder imposed a marketing ban on a batch of beef of 137 kg in the Spar chain. The meat originally came from Gilde Agro Joint Slaughterhouse in Lillesand, which had deep-frozen meat three days before the expiry date and sold it on to the Spar chain. The meat was presented in a refrigerated refrigerator and marked with a new expiry date. The representative Hedstrøm asked if I would like to assess new control procedures that could provide greater safety for consumers. In my opinion, there is no need for further control procedures that are most essential in this case. The essential thing is that the production process has not been appropriate. The labelling on the packaging has created great confusion in consumers who have reacted to the fact that the meat had up to three different labels. I would like to underline the responsibility of food producers to comply with the legislation in this area. What is important for the provision of safe food is that food producers have well-developed internal control systems that cover all stages of production. Thereafter, correct and adequate labelling is a crucial condition for consumer choice. The labelling shall provide as much information as possible on the characteristics and quality of the product. However, the supervisory authorities have now strengthened the requirements in the area of surveillance of cutting plants. Since 1 January 2000, establishments handling fresh red meat are now subject to daily supervision. It is clear from the authorities that the food placed on the market in Norway is to be health-friendly and presented in a fair manner. If it is demonstrated that compliance with public regulations has not been good enough, this will have consequences for food producers. As a conclusion, I would like to point out that the industry itself has the primary responsibility for consumer confidence in food production and that safe food is marketed in Norway. I expect the industry to go through its manufacturing procedures and branding schemes to clarify how such conditions can arise. Such conditions undermine the confidence in the products and the industry should immediately remedy the situation. I have from my side asked the State Food Authority to follow up the matter through contact meetings with the industry and the other food surveillance authorities in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1824	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am quite pleased with. Valde is a central player and will know the legislation, as they are professional. Yet they have been involved negatively in these stories several times. Therefore, there is reason to respond when they have not learned what has happened before. There have been many enquiries in this matter, particularly from the South. Consumers react strongly because they receive a product that is different from the legislation and because they may take a health risk that is not necessary. According to the market leader in Gilde Norway, this is a common way of getting rid of older meat lots, and there is reason to react. The slaughter requirement is clear: meat intended for freezing must be frozen as soon as it has been cut and matured. The bank meat from Gilde Agro was first produced, packaged and labelled as a regular refrigerant. Does not the Council of State think that there is then an irresponsible practice that has been followed here, especially when it is also said that this is a common way of doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1835	The supervisory authorities have said that what has happened here is not acceptable. That is why they have also seized the party and made it clear that they do not accept what has happened. But what I think it is very important to stress is that Gilde herself has a special responsibility to restore the possibly failing trust that you now have in parts of the market. It is primarily the manufacturers themselves who depend entirely on consumers' confidence in the way food is handled, and of course it will always be a matter of having good control procedures, which I believe we have. But in the same way, it is particularly important that those who are going to survive and have progress in a market are themselves very conscious of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1842	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. The debate on food control refers to the fact that SNT and other control bodies currently under the Ministry of Agriculture should be subject, for example: The Ministry of Health, because there are health aspects that it is important to focus on in this context. What does the Council of State think about placing SNT and other control institutions under the responsibility of another department?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1851	First, I guess it's hard to characterize this as a little follow-up question, but rather as a pretty big and new case, so basically I just want to say that I think both the Council of State and the Government are comfortable with the way we've organized our work so far. And what makes me think in particular that it is important that the supervisory authorities are located in the Ministry of Agriculture, is related to the fact that the food safety from the ground to the table is crucial to whether the consumer should experience the purchase as safe. And the fact that we have a department that has a responsibility throughout the food chain, actually, I think, contributes to greater consumer safety than the alternative would have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1856	Then we go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1862	This question, from the representative of Erna Solberg to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Justice who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1865	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Minimum applicants for asylum shall be nominated by the superior body. The shield has several tasks, including being representative of the minor to the authorities, providing personal support and explaining matters that the formation does not understand. According to Redd Barna, the situation is such that a number of minor asylum seekers do not know that they have a reputation or who is. The same guards may be appointed for up to 50 to 100 minor asylum seekers. Does the Council of State consider the organization of the work to be functioning according to the intentions of the law as current practice is?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1874	Act of 22 April 1927 on Vergemålsgesetz (Law of Vergemålsgesetz) applies, inter alia, to: for minors, i.e. persons under 18 years of age. For minor asylum seekers who do not have parents or who do not have parents in this country, a guardian or guardian shall be appointed, who shall take care of the interests of the minor. The appointment is made by the head office and, where appropriate, the replacement manager in the municipality where the minor is registered. I am aware that the protection and assistance scheme for minor asylum seekers does not always work satisfactorily. This is due, inter alia, to: together with the practical difficulty of recruiting competent candidates. Therefore, those who undertake military missions will be protected by several minor asylum seekers at the same time. This may result in not all being given the assistance they should receive from the obligatory. This difficult recruitment situation is partly also related to remuneration, or rather to the lack of such remuneration. The job itself is unpaid, but necessary expenses can be covered. Compensation may also be granted for lost earnings or a certain remuneration for work. The general rule is that this should be covered by the minor’s own resources, but since a minor asylum seeker often does not have his own resources, the law provides that the expenditure should be covered by the municipality following the decision of the head offices. The nature of the practice of the parent companies in these cases depends to a large extent on how much has been allocated to this purpose by the municipality in question. I am about to set up a sample to revise the entire legal framework. In its mandate, it will include, inter alia: undertakes to assess the legal position of the minor and to consider the need for remuneration for military service. In the meantime, I will consider some other measures, such as: improved training and guidance for yeasts. The minor asylum seeker should also be given his or her guardianship at an earlier date, so that he or she becomes more aware of the role of the person responsible for the crime. However, I stress that the interests of the minor as an asylum seeker are also safeguarded by his lawyer, regardless of the defence issue. For all minor asylum seekers, lawyers are required, and the costs are covered by the public. The treatment of asylum applications by non-resident authorities also takes account of asylum seekers who are minors, including young people. by giving priority to matters and by taking into account age in the implementation of e.g.: Question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1891	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that both the Vergemålslagen will undergo an evaluation, and that the situation of minor asylum seekers may now be examined in particular. The problem with reviewing the whole law is that it is traditionally going to take a long time, and we are actually in an emergency situation with very many minor asylum seekers, who are in reception for a very long time. Although they are priorities, we are in the situation that many municipalities do not want to accept them for different reasons, for example. they may be afraid of increasing the costs of receiving minor asylum seekers. My question, therefore, is whether it is possible to do some work related to this organization, a little faster, perhaps to remove the organisation and find out other support schemes that are better suited to care for the things that a lawyer does not do to minor asylum seekers. It is clear that many minor asylum seekers need someone who can help them also in relation to their rights in the Norwegian system. It's something a court could have done, but it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1900	I readily agree that a minor asylum seeker needs a guardian, i.e. a person in addition to the lawyer. I also agree that the overall review of protection legislation has not been carried out in a very short time, so I will take with me the call to look at the possibilities of doing something more specific towards minor asylum seekers. But I wonder if it was a misunderstanding associated with the appointment, because guardians must therefore be appointed for minors as soon as they come to the country. It is not expected that they have been placed in their final municipality. This is likely to contribute to some of the problem by the fact that the municipalities where there is reception will have to appoint a terrible number of associations. This makes the burden on the municipality in question greater than for other municipalities which do not have a local authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1912	There was no misunderstanding. I just want to stress that the fact that the settlement takes so long means that the role of the forgetfulness increases in the period before you reside. At the moment minor asylum seekers are settled, there is still a need for considerable resources, but there will be a very different network of measures and support functions, such as: established with school and other care facilities, existing within the municipality. The problem that arises from being in reception is that no one has any responsibility in any way beyond the staff of the reception. This means that the problem has a much larger role to play, the longer the minor stays in reception before he becomes a resident, so that if nothing is done to reduce the duration of the treatment in terms of raising the number of persons living in the case of minor asylum seekers, then there is a greater need for the organization to function better. One of the problems of the organisation is the establishment of one guardian at the moment when the minor comes to the country, and then virtually all asylum seekers are moved shortly after the first hearings to other receptions, and then the new one becomes again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1921	I really don't have much to add. I hear what the representative Solberg says, and I agree with the problem description provided by the representative, and I believe that this is something that we must follow further up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1929	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Sarpsborg County Prison was recently emptied of prisoners due to a high level of sick leave among staff. At the same time, there has been long disagreement between the staff of the institution and the management of the prison region on the rotation system at the institution. Will the Council of State do anything to ensure that operations resume in a proper manner at Sarpsborg County Prison?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1938	The discussions around the tour system in Sarpsborg County Prison have been going on for some time. The core of the conflict is a discussion around the length of the individual watch. The prison leadership, for its part, wants a rotational system to ensure the best possible criminal policy results and to be appropriate to professional work. In this context, it is important that guards should not be so long as to undermine the possibility of active and effective action. Most other institutions in the country have put in place rotational schemes that meet these requirements. As the situation has developed, the Ministry of Justice has accepted a temporary closure of Sarpsborg County Prison. In a letter dated 31 March, the Ministry has made it clear to the Eastern prison district that considerable efforts are needed to find a quick solution to the matter. The Ministry has asked in the same letter to be kept continuously informed about the ongoing process. Furthermore, by Monday 3 April at the latest, the Ministry held another meeting on the subject of the management of the Eastern prison district in order to help find a solution together with the civil servants’ organisations. So the answer to the question is that the Council of State and the Department have already done and will continue to do something to ensure that operations are going to resume properly at Sarpsborg County Prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1945	I thank you for your answer. It was good to hear that the Council of State, so fresh in the chair, has already taken the initiative both by letter last Friday and meeting now Monday to get a solution to the situation. The Tournament should normally be resolved administratively in the prison region. But, as the Council of State said, the discussions have been ‘reverse over some time’. It is well to be careful since these discussions now run for the fifth year between the employees of Sarpsborg County Prison and the management of the prison region. So now the situation has culminated in such a high level of sick leave that prison has been closed. This is an entirely unsustainable situation, which should not have occurred. I am pleased that the Council of State has now sent out clear signals and said that she should stay informed on an ongoing basis. I expect that she can also promise that if necessary she will intervene in the situation, and at least continue to put a strong pressure on the parties to the solution, hopefully quickly, lies there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1954	I can confirm that the ministry is still going to be engaged and closely involved in the situation, because, as the representative Mr. Tömerås also says, it is not sustainable for a prison to be held for a longer period of time on the basis of this type of discussion or conflict between management and civil servants' organisations on the tour system. We have to try to do this the way you've done it in most other institutions in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1959	In addition, I would just like to point out that in my question I say that the operation has to get started again in a proper manner. A rotational system that is experienced by the employees so tough that we get so many people who are ill, it is impossible to call it proper. I am pleased that the Council of State said in its first answer that a solution had to be found with the civil servants' organisations. It must also mean that you have to listen better to what the employees of Sarpsborg County Prison say, and remember that it knows best where the shoe prints it. A tour system that is optimal one place, in one prison, is not necessarily that of another prison. We should remember that Sarpsborg County Prison is a small prison where there are few employees compared to the number of prisoners, compared to other prisons. It must be included in the assessment of the type of tour system to be used. You have to look at the whole thing and the local conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1967	There will be something too far to go into the details of the conflicts associated with the tour system, for there are many variants and components here. The main point for the Ministry has been the establishment of a tour scheme to ensure that there are not so many long shifts that it is difficult to make an active and professional effort on the part of the prisoners, including those in prisons. through the contact officer system. Then it is important that employees are sufficiently frequent at work and have shorter shifts. I also remember that the general rule of the Environmental Protection Act is shorter shifts than 12 hours. So here's a conflict that goes on that department wants a little shorter guards than the employees have wanted. But the main point is that we need to find a solution, and we need to find a solution with the civil servants' organizations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1975	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘When the Stortinget adopted a new law on child protection services in 1992, the majority decided that a system should be set up with a figure for children in such cases. Originally, the majority would have a compulsory system, but in the 1993 draft law it was decided to give the members the opportunity to appoint such speakers in individual cases. At the same time, it was emphasised that in a few years the scheme was to be evaluated and the evaluation presented to the Stortinget. Eight years have now passed. When does the evaluation come to Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1984	The question raised here by the representative, Solberg, is important and is about a theme that I am concerned with, to focus on the children's situation, especially the situation of the weakest children. Several things have been done in relation to the evaluation of the system of figures for children in the years since the adoption by the Stortinget of a new law on child protection services. Under § 7-4 of the Children's Protection Act, the county council may appoint an individual spokesperson for children in matters to be dealt with in the county. Detailed rules on the scheme have been laid down on the basis of the provision. The legal provision was adopted in 1993 after the Stortinget had asked the then government to submit a proposal for such a scheme. In the position of the then Consumer and Administrative Committee, the Committee stated that, within three years of the entry into force of this scheme, the Storting should be submitted to an evaluation of the scheme, inter alia. in order to assess the development of the practice of using a spokesperson in the different provinces. The Staff Regulations entered into force on 1 January 1994. This implies that the scheme has operated for a period of more than six years. In order to respond to the Storting’s request for evaluation, it was decided that the numeracy scheme should be included in the «Evaluation of Welfare Laws» sub-programme under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council. The Western Development Centre of Child Protection and the NOVA were commissioned and evaluated the scheme for the period 1994-97. Such a long period was necessary to obtain a sufficiently large material. The evaluation report on the speech system was available in October 1998. The evaluation shows that the scheme works very well in many ways, but some adjustments may be needed. However, there is still a comprehensive evaluation of the Child Protection Act under the authority of the Norwegian Research Council. Some of the individual research projects have been completed, while others are not. The Ministry will therefore assess, in the light of the overall evaluation results, the need for regulatory changes and/or other measures, such as: with regard to training or information. In 1999, the Bondevik government appointed a sample, the Befring Committee, to carry out an overall review of child protection. Among these, the sample forms part of the research reports available. Also in the Befring Committee's position, which will be available by 1 May of this year, legislative changes may be proposed. I consider it appropriate to see the various evaluation projects as well as the position of the Befring Committee in the context before reaching a final conclusion on the necessary measures, including any legislative changes. As soon as the selection procedure and the various evaluation projects are available, the Ministry will take this into account. The results will then be presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. But I can promise the representative, Solberg, that the practice of the speech system will be taken into account in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e1997	There is no reason to hide that the creation of the system of a separate spokesperson for children in these cases was done despite the wishes of the then child and family minister Grete Berget, and as an initiative of all the other parties on the Stortinget at the time, because one wanted to have an unhindered person who was not calculated as an expert but who should be able to know the child and represent the child in the counties. As also mentioned in the question, the primary wish was to make this scheme compulsory. It was not – in order to find an overall solution – because there were a number of areas where questions could also be asked about whether a mandatory scheme was wanted. However, in view of this, the Committee wished that the Storting should be submitted to an evaluation of this scheme within three years, including: to assess the practices developed in relation to the use of the child’s spokesperson in the various subjects. This makes me think that the Council of State should consider whether she should not come back more quickly, based on this evaluation report, to the Stortinget, and not wait for the evaluation of the entire Children's Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2006	I want to say that I share Solberg's view that the most desirable thing, of course, was that we had had a completely different progress in this matter. But I think it is best that we now see what the Befring Committee will provide from documentation. I can assure the representative Solberg that we will then come back and present it to the Stortinget as quickly as possible, for there is no doubt that the evaluation of the scheme shows that it has been practised differently, and that the speech system has been used differently. One of the reasons for this is that it is up to the head of the county to decide whether the scheme should be implemented. The evaluation so far also shows that the figures have been given too little time for this work. I can only assure the representative that we will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2011	I do not make the current Council responsible for this having taken a long time. There are, of course, limits on how quickly you can turn things around and bring things back to Stortinget. However, I would like to stress that the reason why this matter was wanted to be evaluated independently of the general evaluation of the Child Protection Act was precisely because one was afraid of the different treatment that could take place on different statesmen, and that it was considered that the scheme was not made mandatory – at least the majority of parties on the Stortinget assessed it this way – simply as a form of probation. If it is to go out with an evaluation and, if necessary, a full legal review of the changes to the Child Protection Act otherwise, I would still recommend to the Council of State to return with a partial evaluation of this, if it is not reasonably short of time before the final treatment of the Befring Committee may come to the Ministry. I think it is important for the child in these matters to have some independent spokespersons who do not carry the ballast that some experts have, and who are not in the sometimes somewhat difficult situation of child protection, in love with their own decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2020	I will, of course, follow carefully what Stortinget has said. Once I have gained more insight into this issue and also have the opportunity to go more into the Befring Committee setting, I will of course assess whether it is right to take this piece out and present it to Stortinget faster than the rest of the evaluation. But we're going to get back to that. I can promise the representative an answer to this later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2028	I would like to ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘In oral Question Time on 29 March 2000, the Council of State stated that 3 billion. cash support crowns are unreasonable use of tax money, and more should be invested in kindergartens and extended maternity leave. When evaluating cash support, will the Council decide on the anticipating effect on living conditions of those who are not linked to the labour market and therefore have poor living conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2037	Let me begin by saying that it is not likely to come as a big surprise to the representative Vihoved that I and my party could imagine a completely different answer to the issues facing families than cash support. But at the same time, I'm very aware that a majority in this room sees it differently, and that's of course a majority I should respect. The representative Vihovde is entitled to a relationship between family income and the receipt of cash support, by the proportion receiving cash support falling both when the mother’s income and the total family income increase. But as long as 80 pst. by the parents of 1-year-olds receiving cash support, it is difficult to find evidence that there is an aid scheme designed for those with the worst living conditions in this country. Cash support is not need-tested, and with the facts we have today, it is a rather quick conclusion to say that this has a smoothing effect. Norwegian society is so organized that many of the economic rights it has acquired require professional participation, and are something that domestic young children’s parents do not benefit from. Although cash support changes somewhat, there is still a broad consensus in this hall that the salary and vesting of rights should be primarily linked to an active professional life. There is now a broad evaluation of the cash support. In addition to the studies undertaken by the Ministry, the Norwegian Research Council coordinates a number of projects that will be completed by the turn of the year. One of them, in progress in the Statistical Central Bureau, also analyses the impact of cash support on the distribution of income. However, in an overall assessment of the cash support, one must also assess whether there will be other means of using public funds that may be important for families that do not have too much space. For example, today’s high parental benefit in kindergarten may be a burden on the economy of many families with children. Let me conclude by saying that defrosting is not just about economics. An important element of a social policy is to reach children with special training and care needs at an early stage. Kindergarten can be both a tool to identify help needs and an area for targeted action. If an evaluation of the cash support shows that the children most in need of a kindergarten offer fall out, I expect that we will have a new discussion about measures that will ensure these children the help they need. There is an important discussion in a dithering perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2050	When I chose to ask the Minister for Children and Family this question based on the debate and the questions that came, it was clear that there was a different view of the cash support and various reasons why one wanted it. But there is a number of people who want cash support, and who have adopted it. It also says in the Equalization message that we have been dealing with here in Stortinget, and that the present government and the previous government are behind, that universal promises have a smoothing effect and lift the lifestyle of those who have the least. And those who are out of work today have in very many contexts poorer living conditions, and these are also very many infants' parents. I hope that in the evaluation of the cash support, the Minister for Children and Family also looks at the possibilities there are for smoothing. For the Left, it's important to have universal solutions, so you don't make people clients who have to apply for permissions to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2059	I want to say that in the future we will have a great need for labour in Norway. And, as I said at the outset, there has also been a broad consensus in Norway that wages and salaries for entitlements, such as pension, social security and sickness benefits, have primarily been linked to participation in the labour market. But, of course, it must be in our welfare society that we should also have minimum standards for those who, for various reasons, fall outside. But it's not right that we from the state should go in and spend billions on groups that may strictly not need it. At least it seems to me and my party to be a paradox when we see public poverty in the sector by sector. We are concerned that we should have a child and family policy that complies with what the young children themselves want, and then we know that the answer is community solutions, cheap kindergartens and more time, and not a cash support that does not necessarily lead to more time between parents and children. But I have great respect for the fact that the majority in this room thinks otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2066	Governments said that one spends billions on perhaps successful families. The working party wants to spend billions on special measures to raise the poor. There may be some in it, but then we go into the debate on cash support. For the Left, cash support has been important to give parents flexibility, and to give parents confidence that they themselves have to choose the solutions that they think are best for their children. Then I hope the Council of State can confirm that one by an evaluation – because in the Left we also want an evaluation of the arrangements, both for us and for us, because we must always ensure them – see if we can secure the scheme and make it better. Governments are talking about the children who fall out of the way for parents to take out those who need kindergarten. There is something we are concerned about, but we want one to say specifically that one will see if the cash support also has a smoothing effect and raises the living standards for those who have the most difficult things in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2075	Cash support is a political choice, and we are not going to spend more time on it now and the arguments for it. But I would like to say that the evaluation will of course reveal all aspects of the cash support and the consequences of its implementation. And that's important, because this is a pretty big scheme, where we didn't have a single impact assessment before it was launched. That is why the Labour Party has been very concerned that we need a thorough and good evaluation, which a majority of the family, cultural and administrative committees have also asked to be presented. Of course, the evaluation will also highlight the representative’s concern, namely the smoothing effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2080	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-05.ana.ud2602e2089	There is no record.
