ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e101	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e110	Inner. O. No 82 from the Municipal Committee deals with the law on amendments to the Law of 25 September 1992 No. 107 on municipalities and counties etc., cf. Ot. pp. No 43 for 1999-2000. The legislative proposals are mainly related to the economic planning and management rules. In the present legislative proposal, the Ministry has carefully assessed the possibilities for simplifying existing legislation. This applies, inter alia, to: State control and rules on the annual budget and financial plan. In addition, the Ministry has been concerned with adapting rules on financial management to developments in society, so that the rules appear to be consistent and appropriate for the local government sector. The Ministry based its investigation work on a report by the Municipal Councils of Central and Eastern Europe, KS, and the Association of Municipal Finance and Tax Recovery – formerly NKK. The draft amendments were submitted for consultation and 140 opinions were received by the Ministry. The Ministry proposes to continue the provisions on requirements for the balance of income and expenditure under the Local Government Act. The Ministry also proposes, on the overall assessment, that the current financial system be maintained as a basis for the future municipal budget and accounting system. The conclusion is not obvious, as there are both advantages and disadvantages associated with such a system. The alternative would be to introduce a performance-oriented budgetary and accounting system. The Ministry believes that instead one should seek to make adjustments in today's financial system. The absence of depreciation has been the most serious objection to this system. The Committee has given its assent to the assessments of the Ministry. This also applies to the introduction of an «institution» for «good municipal accounting» which may provide necessary recommendations and standards. A minority in the Committee would ask the Government to continue its work on the conversion of the accounting principle for municipalities towards results-oriented accounting and budgetary management, and would also suggest this. As regards the rules of procedure, the Committee has taken note of the fact that no general majority is required to submit proposals for the annual budget. However, the Committee stresses the importance of ensuring the necessary legitimacy of the budget and financial plan through a final vote in the county and local government. The Committee also endorses a separate provision on the detailed requirements for financial management under the Local Government Act. The Committee agrees that a separate regulation on risk-at-risk disposition, including currency risk, is provided. However, the Committee stresses that such rules must be designed in such a way as to allow for a slightly more flexible practice of loans and locations abroad than at present, provided that municipalities and county councils have sound procedures to manage the financial risk. The Committee also asks the Government to amend the legislation requiring that earmarked grants be excluded from the Group Account Scheme. Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party want an addition to Section 50. A share purchase for a purpose other than to be part of the surplus liquidity of local authorities should remain eligible for loan financing. Proposal No. However, 2 is not promoted. Rather, the proposers will come back to the issue in a separate document No. Eight proposals. Finally, an overall committee agrees with the proposal for the introduction of conditional State control of the annual budget and the approval of borrowings and other financial arrangements which may incur costs from municipalities. I allow myself to recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e148	The rapporteur has explained the Committee's position on the proposed amendments to the municipal law. The Government shall agree to any proposed amendments. The proposed amendments concern financial planning and management rules. The proposal provides for simplification of older legislation and thus a reduction in State control. The amended rules specify the principles and frameworks for the work on the annual budget, the financial plan and specific types of financial arrangements. The Government has stressed that the provisions should be designed to ensure that target and result management can be applied in municipalities. This is in agreement with the Committee. The information system KOSTRA is proposed to be introduced, in the sense that KOSTRA’s information collection requirements are enshrined in the Municipal Law. COSTRA links data on the finances of municipalities with data on municipal services and users, and could focus on the relationship between the use of money and the services that come out. The aim is that knowledge should provide a basis for improvement in municipalities, with a view to improving the well-being of each krona. In two areas, the Committee takes the lead in voting which goes slightly beyond what the Government has proposed. However, the Labour Party and the Government agree to this. Firstly, the Committee considers that the Ministry should continue to give a separate regulation on risk-related arrangements, including currency risk. The Labour Party, like the other parties, believes that the rules must be flexible and to a greater extent distinguish between large and small municipalities, possibly county municipalities, and who have reassuring procedures to assess and manage the financial risk. Another comment on which the Committee is composed is that, in principle, no State aid should be required to be placed on own accounts. This is a matter that is not directly regulated by the law we are dealing with today, but which the Committee has found appropriate to comment on. The Committee is aware that it is the individual department that, in the case of grant commitments — earmarked grants — until the municipalities place requirements. This requirement means that the grant cannot be ‘borrowed’ for a municipal purpose other than the intended one, for a shorter or longer period of time — e.g.: that a business fund can be borrowed to care for the elderly for one, two or three years. We are aware that, among other things: is the country’s Financial Regulation which imposes this type of requirement. We believe, however, that the Government, in line with the work of simplification, and in confidence in municipal autonomy, should look at these systems and seek to change the type of legislation that gives the bonds to which I refer here. The working party would also recommend this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e161	This change in law, as has been said by both the spokesperson and the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, Odd Eriksen, is an uplifting act, a clearing-up act when it comes to legislation that has been partly heavy and partly immature. I take a lot of the views of the author and the representative of the Workers' Party, and the setting also shows that there is largely a joint committee on the essential points. This is also adapted to a law we dealt with last year on municipal enterprises and intercommunal companies. I would otherwise like to say a few words about this with the accounting system, which I thought it was important that we look at a little bit. The municipalities, and the county councils also as long as they exist, I hope it won't be too long, will become a modern enterprise more and more. They are more and more adapted to become a market-oriented tool to provide services. Then it is also important that it has a comparable accounting system, similar to that of private enterprises and other businesses operating in a market. And this is also important if one is to be introduced even more competitively in the public sector, so that one can compare private and public providers in competition, because I don't see it particularly desirable that we get private monopolies. It's actually worse than public monopoly. That's why I want, and imagine, competition between public and private enterprises in a market, and then it's important that both the public and private sectors have an accounting system that compares to one that can see what the real costs are. I left to the Right-wing spokesman to promote the proposal that was included in the vote and on which the Progress Party is involved. So a few words about the proposal that I thought more than SV and the Progress Party should be on, and it applies to the undemocratic right where one of a local government is forced to vote for a matter that one is against, and to vote for things that one has not had the slightest influence on. We have a system here that means that a representative will never be forced to vote for anything you're against, and one should actually also be able to have the system in the local government room that one should not be able to force alternative voting when some people would oppose it because one wants to vote against both options. This has to do with democracy, and Norway is known for having a good democracy in many areas, where minorities are also allowed to be minorities and are allowed to vote for what one is for, and against what one is against, without being forced into anything. Therefore, it should also be possible in the municipal sector to get a system, knowing that in the worst case, it might lead to a failure to reach a decision. But we've tried this system in this house a few times after we got the new budgetary system, and it's led to the fact that it's forced negotiations where so-called subsidiary restraints are expressed, and that makes an actual vote for, as they said, maybe with the fingers of the nose in some circumstances, but then at least a decision is made. In this case I left it to the representative of the SV to promote that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e170	As we can see, it is largely an overall committee that is in line with the Ministry's proposal for changes to the municipal law in the light of economic governance in the public administration. The most controversial issue is whether it is right to continue a financial budgetary and accounting system. The majority of the Committee rests on the compulsory calculation of annual depreciation but on the continuation of the other system. In particular, this principle of depreciation is justified in the event of difficulties in comparing private tenders in a competitive situation within the present system, as the representative of the Progress Party was concerned in its submission. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party will ask the Government to continue to work on the conversion of the local accounts accounting principle towards a profit-and-loss-oriented accounting and budgetary management. We also believe that further work should be carried out in some municipalities with the conversion of this accounting principle. We recognize, of course, that in the municipal world there is activity that does not have an income-creating motive and thus cannot be compared with business, but we believe that an approximation of the accounting rules in relation to the Accounting Act can be useful. It is improper that the legibility of municipal accounts also appears to be a barrier for many elected people with a completely different working day. Then there is this with municipal guarantees or withholding the concept of ‘particular municipal interest’, which may be associated with defining difficulties. Nevertheless, if today's amendment to the law would actually lead to liberalisation in relation to the guarantees granted, then the issue of provision for losses would have increasing topicality. Future application of legislation and approval procedures will have to be able to clarify this. As far as financial management is concerned, I am pleased that the Committee has opened up flexibility for municipalities in relation to loans and placement abroad. This can not only be beneficial for major urban municipalities, but also necessary in relation to the home market. Finally, a comment on the minority proposal from the Centre and SV on the loan-funded purchase of shares for permanent ownership. In the related note, local power companies are used as targets and motives for this proposed legal opening. Until then, it is said that over time local political involvement in this market should be significantly less than in the past, precisely because the new Energy Act requires market players other than municipalities to be on the production and sales side at least. It is true that Kommune-Norge also has a responsibility for infrastructure on the line network – there are Norwegian municipalities already on the owner’s side. Now that we are gradually developing a split-up of vertically integrated power companies, and the public is giving priority to the liner companies, the shareholdings of municipal interest will have a very modest size in relation to the historical municipal involvement in the power sector. This is part of our reason for not having the same commitment as SV in this case. Then it remains to address our joint proposal with the Progress Party to which it is referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e187	Swear J. Hoddevik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e190	The centre party's starting point is to strengthen local self-government. We are essentially supporting the proposals for changes that are being discussed today. We want greater freedom for municipalities to design economic plans and annual budgets. We're some of that change and the downsizing of state control that's here. We also regard this legal work as one of many elements in the same direction as the ‘Simplify Norway’ approach. The Centre Party is very pleased that the Government is now passing on more than 100 projects that it has set up. We also meet the Brustad Council for further work on simplifying legislation and reducing regulations in the municipal sector. When it comes to additional details, I refer to the case-speaker Ivar Østberg's posts and join in his assessments. Then I will say a few words in relation to the date of implementation. There was a pre-activated alarm from the NKK. In the tenant of Municipal Economy No. 4/2000 was a very strong statement about what they expected from this case. It was a warning that this was going to be the busiest year for the municipalities and county municipalities in many years. It was about both a raw and a tough process, the summer holiday was supposed to go in the sink, and it was a warning of a control against chaos. This was noted at the hearing of the committee. We stress that both KS and NKK want the time of introduction from 1 January 2001, and we expect this to happen. With the proposal, as it now stands, we understand that there are expectations here of the changes to be made, and it is the will of the Municipality of Norway to participate in the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e199	SV is largely in agreement with the proposition, but has differing views in two areas, and I will try to explain it. One area has been explained by the representative of the Progress Party. These are the voting rules and, on the part of Stortinget, it is less confident that local-elected politicians in a process are able to reach agreement and thereby obtain a final decision than is the case in the Stortinget, where rules are not applicable. definition ensures decisions in the budget. The rules are such that you should not be forced to vote for anything you disagree with, and they also put pressure on the different constellations to go into negotiations, and everyone has the opportunity to influence the various proposals that are being put to the vote. This may be important in particular in relation to the budget. On the SV side, we have the same confidence that local people-elected things will be interested in getting a process locally, so they will come up with agreed solutions. We believe it is undemocratic to force someone in that case to choose between alternative proposals that they have not had the opportunity to have influence over. In practice, by voting in any case, they will be on the verge of deciding which decision to take, and it would be wrong to put someone in such a situation. In most situations, I think this is actually going well, but it has been shown to be situations, for example. in Bergen City Council, which led me and the representative Ågot Valle to promote a similar Document No. Eight proposals two years ago. So it's not entirely unthinkable that such a situation will arise. That is why I should like to raise a point of order. 3rd@item: inlistbox The second point that SV, like the centre parties, has a different view of, is about the local authorities' ability to borrow, for example. to purchase shares for permanent ownership. The reason we became aware of this was that we saw a situation there, for example. five municipalities own a power company together and one municipality wants to sell out. What we can then risk is, for example, that the municipality that wants to sell does not get sold, because the other four municipalities do not want private owners in, and that it then closes to a solution that a municipality wants. The second setting may be that the other municipalities want to take over these shares, but are in a liquidity situation that means that they will not be able to raise loans because the guidelines of the law prevent it. There shall now be «durable means of operation», as provided for in the provisions, to which loans may be taken. At the time of the discussion in the municipal committee, this issue may have been a little late, at least it was a little late. And there was a positive mood, so you didn't want the proposal that the center and the SV have in the setting to come up for a vote, so that it was actually voted down. That is why I do not want to promote the proposal today, and it is not very meaningful to have a legal text sent to the Government either. But we warn you that we will produce a Document No. 8 proposals that address this issue, because it has also been a little small in its scope, and have therefore not been discussed in depth and worked through. Of course, during the discussion of such a proposal, the Storting and the Government will also have the opportunity to look at this issue and perhaps – a little unreservedly – be able to come up with a slightly better legal text than the one we received when we asked for a possible legal text that would meet the need for us, namely that municipalities should be able to obtain loan finance for the purchase of shares, for example. in power companies. These are large local values of which it may be entirely politically legitimate to want public ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e210	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e213	Ensuring the framework conditions for municipalities and county municipalities that allow them to make the best use of their resources is an important task. The efficient use of Community funds, for the benefit of those in need of public services, is precisely the aim of the public sector renewal programme launched by the Government. As you know, the government has already proposed to remove a number of earmarked schemes, which will give our local politicians greater freedom and thus also the opportunity to make more effective use of the funds. However, if local authorities are able to use their own resources more effectively, the legislation to which they are subject also depends. Many municipalities and county councils have pointed out in many contexts that today's designation and legislative and regulatory works together mean that there will be little left to decide for municipalities and county councils. I think they're very right about that. It is therefore important that we continue to be critical and assess what rules for local government are necessary for national reasons. This is also the starting point for the review of the local government legislation currently under way by the ministries. The proposition of changes in the municipal law currently under consideration has the same starting point. The rules relate to the framework conditions for the economic planning and administration of municipalities and counties. Then it is not the law alone, but the law and regulations that determine the degrees of freedom of municipalities and counties in their planning and management. In the work on regulations in progress in the ministry, the same applies, namely a critical assessment of the bindings needed for local administration. As for the state, the annual budget is a core task for local government and county councils. Through the annual budget, the elected representatives shall clarify to voters and to their own administration the tasks to be carried out in the following year. The current requirements for the content of the annual budget place relatively large commitments on how to present this message. Now that we simplify these requirements, it means increasing the freedom of individual local government and county councils to decide for themselves how detailed politicians want to govern their own administration. The amendment of the law implies that the priorities to be set out for public oversight by the local government and the county council themselves are to be implemented. As a plan for the activities of the municipality or county councils in the following year, it is essential, as several speakers have also stressed, that the annual budget has great legitimacy. That is why we have proposed that a majority of the representatives should remain behind one of the draft budgets put forward. Municipalities and counties comply with accounting rules other than private enterprises. The results of a municipal account are of less importance than in an accounting for an enterprise. The essential point is to ensure that operating profit is positive, so that the municipality or county does not live on advances in relation to future taxpayers. At the same time, it is important to ensure information that can contribute to the efficient use of resources. This must also include the municipal buildings and structures. The KOSTRA system provides the necessary knowledge of the costs associated with the construction of municipal services. This gives us a good basis for comparing municipal and private tasks, while taking care of the fact that the economic purpose is very different for a municipality and a private enterprise. I have noticed that the committee wants to liberalise the rules on dispositions that involve currency risks for municipalities and county municipalities. In the field of financial management regulations, the Ministry will provide for the opening of municipalities and county councils to use foreign currency when the municipality or county has a routine of assessing and managing the financial risks involved. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that State control of municipal financial management should be made essentially conditional. As long as a municipality or county council is able to have a healthy economy, it must be unnecessary for the state to control all annual budgets and individual borrowings. With the changes now being made to the law, my view is that a reasonable balance is achieved between municipal freedom and the general government needs. And it's an additional contribution to increasing local self-government and renewing and simplifying the public sector. And here it's going to come more!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e231	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 478]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e245	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the chairman of the committee, Berit Brørby. The cause's rapporteur, Aud Gaundal, is a member of the Laging House.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e256	Thank you, President, for noticing that the President is a member of the Lamentations! In the opinion of the Labour Party, the Stortinget today takes an important decision in principle, namely that by the end of this year the Government will present proposals for the inclusion of disability in the Working Environment Act § 55 A. The discussion that disabled people were to be included in the law, we've had here in Stortinget in the past. Int. O. No 27 for 1997-98, all the lots provided for a thorough assessment of this issue. On written questions from Aud Gaundal to Minister for Local and Regional Affairs Odd Roger Enoxen, in response of 30 April 1999, it is stated that the Council of State would not address the question of including the disabled in Section 55 A before such a result of the ‘Action plan for increasing occupational activity among the disabled’. The Committee notes that such a review has not been carried out but that a sample, the Manneråk Committee, which is to look at the rights of people with disabilities in a wider context, has been set up. However, the Committee points out that there is too little progress towards a positive trend towards increased professional participation for people with disabilities. Of course, we are aware that today's decision has not solved the problem, but it is a step in the right direction. It is also necessary, as referred to by the Committee, to carry out a detailed legal review of the framework for such inclusion in the law. Of course, a good law, where there is legal pre-work, provides both employers and employees with guidelines for the practice of the law. With regard to the question that the employer has to pay an excess of 1⁄2 G for grants for aids, the Committee stresses that in cases where aid or the conversion of machinery is necessary, this is covered by the public interest when a worker is to start work or the need arises before six months of employment. The Committee points out that the scheme of support for such measures is very little used. It is therefore necessary, in the Committee's view, that both workers and employers be made much more aware of the existing aid schemes. We have to have a labour market as many as possible in the future, for very many reasons. Flexible solutions and physically organized workplaces are a way to go. Nevertheless, we must remember that today there are many workplaces that are well-organised for disabled people, but where it works in a healthy way. It might have been desirable that when job vacancies become available, it could have been indicated that the workplace is physically easily accessible, for example. in view of the fact that disabled people can apply for the job. Perhaps it could have been as natural as advertising/advertising for good hunting and fishing opportunities, as it is often stated in the ads. Statistics show that it is in private business that most people work with disabilities. This is where the public has to be better. I know it's done a lot, but it's too slow. Although the Committee is unanimous in its recommendation on the inclusion of disabled people in Section 55(A) of the Working Environment Act, there are differing views on the question of the reversal of the burden of proof and possible compensation. These are questions that we from the Workers' Party, among others. will have to decide when the legal work has been completed by the Government. Although everything has not been clarified, I believe that the Stortinget in its position today has come to signal that we do not want a labour market where some groups of people risk being discriminated against. We therefore meet the government's legal work, which will be available by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e286	I can agree with most of what the committee's leaders have said about the basis for the Committee's being consensual in its attitude, asking that the disabled be included in the legislation on equal lines with some other groups that are embedded. However, I would like to make it clear that at the time that we started to integrate some groups into the labour-environment law against discrimination, it was of the opinion that it was unnecessary to have a paragraph that said this, because we believe that this should in itself be undisputed. Now that the others have decided that there are other groups that are included in Section 55(A) and the disabled are not, I get to say that if there is any Progress Party will give priority to such a list, it is the disabled. That's why we're now thinking that when the others are embedded, they also have to be disabled. Where the burden of proof is reversed, the Party of Progress shall take a stand against it. And we were very happy for the Innst. O nr. 27 for 1997-1998, where a clear majority in the Committee — and in the Stortinget as well — rejected the burden of proof and compensation. We don't think that's necessary. With these few words, I'm going to end up with the settings from the multiples in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e297	Like the chairman of the committee, who gave an excellent presentation both earlier and now, I see this as a day of joy. We have in no way achieved the goal, but we are finally on the right track – if we get the decision we expect during the treatment today. In a country where human dignity is elevated, we really should have made sure that disabled people were also protected by the provisions of the Labour Environment Act against discrimination. Today, we are going to adopt a decision of principle which the chairman of the Committee has presented on behalf of the President-in-Office. But we have a long way to go before we reach the goal. As was also pointed out, it is actually in private companies that the most advanced approach is to provide disabled people with job opportunities. Both the State and the municipality have a job to do to facilitate disabled people, not primarily because the labour market is such that we have to get all the hands at work, but because disabled people should have an obvious right to work in the same way as others. With regard to the question that has been raised by the previous speakers, about the reversal of the burden of proof, the Christian People's Party does not at present need to adopt any position other than what we did in the treatment of the Inst. O nr. 27 for 1997-1998. But when the government comes back with its draft law before the end of 2000, we think it is reasonable to decide on a free basis for the draft law that is then available. Finally, I would like to point out something on which the Committee has been concerned, namely that the system of social assistance to cover expenditure on aids, etc. in the case of disabled persons, little use has been made. Our consultations with business organisations indicate that companies have little information on the extent to which the real support is available. And there is an overall committee that asks the Government to strengthen the information of employers and disabled people, so that the scheme becomes better known. So it's not just a change of laws we need, we also need a strengthened information work by the Government to ensure disabled people's right to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e308	Norway is a country that has for many years boasted of being far-reaching in terms of human rights, equality and other terms that have a positive sound. Much of this may be attributed to the fact that Norway is a homogeneous society, where it has been easy to identify with each other, and the degree to which the similarity has initially been great. The back of the homogeneous society has been that it has been difficult for all those who have been different in the form of function, in the form of appearance, in the form of sex – although women are in the majority in Norway, it has sometimes been perceived as different in the workplace that they are women. The back of the homogeneous equality society may have just been that you've focused little on that it creates problems for those who are different. It also creates a lot of myths related to groups, for example: on the lack of functioning of the labour market. Because we have had fairly good welfare arrangements also for those who have fallen out of work, many have thought that the state has a good system to deal with these problems. The private, personal responsibility for doing something may be shifted away and left to the public in the form that you pass on people instead of actively contributing to their inclusion. I think we have a lot to do about attitudes in our society related to all groups that need to be different, even though those groups may eventually be the majority of our society. I think we have a lot to do in terms of getting everyone to take responsibility for going away from myths and group thinking, and over to seeing the individuals and individuals being treated in public, for example. in the case of employment. In the right we have never been particularly excited to use the law as a pure attitude law. In this way, we are also concerned about changing Section 55 A of the Labour Protection and Working Environment Act, etc., but we have concluded that there may be a need to give an opinion signal in these matters, a signal that we have to take inwards that the working life does not work as we want, to some groups. We've done it before in relation to gender equality legislation for women. We have now done so in relation to other groups in connection with the introduction of the new Section 55 A. But it's far from saying that we're going to take this into account that attitudes, that a lot of other countries have also had, to say that we want a law that's going to target itself to be made up of what you have, for example. in the United States or some other European countries, where discrimination has become the eldorado of compensation legislation, and where, in addition to the creation of positions in the law, such emphasis has been placed on the issue of burden of proof and the question of compensation that has come to light in a situation which, I would say, gives quite unsustainable conditions in the labour market as well. That's why we now agree to extend Section 55 A, i.e. one part of the law, but we don't want to change our position to the reverse burden of proof or the right to compensation. We do not want American social conditions in relation to these conditions in Norway. In the case of people with disabilities, I think we have to admit that a little more questions need to be asked about what is discrimination and what is a disability that makes it impossible to include it right above the table in Section 55A. We are therefore pleased that the Committee today takes a decision in principle, but we are asking for a proper legislative investigation to be carried out, and I would like here to give guidance for two areas on which we believe there is a need to place a decisive emphasis. One is to define who comes under this paragraph, so what's a disability? You ask different groups, there will be a different number of people who are considered disabled in our society. It goes from 15 pst. to 3 pst. – I've seen statistics on it – depending on how snowy and how much. This means that in some ways you have to make a pretty good definition of who can get within the legal framework. The second part is: what should be discrimination and what should be discrimination based on a factual individual assessment of the applicant’s actual abilities? This is because some people with disabilities may have problems doing parts of the job that are within the working area that you have. The employer needs to know more about how the law will be interpreted in order not to get into the situation that we have warned of before, that more and more of the positions being published are not published publicly, but are occupied by knowledge and friendship, because one is afraid of too extensive a law. Having said this, we are happy that we have come as far as we have. We wanted to have an investigation on the table during the previous treatment. We find that the central government did not follow this closely enough, and that therefore there is a need for the Stortinget to take an extra step now. However, there is also a need to have a good basis for taking the final decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e323	Full participation and equal opportunities. That's the starting point for the UN's standard rules, that's the starting point for Norwegian engagement, that's also the starting point for the common setting that's currently under way. It's an important step forward to carry out the principal clarification that's being made today. I note that there is a little ‘upturn’ out here and it goes in proportion to what the previous government must have done in this area. I am not particularly happy that the named distribution is not leading, and I do not know why this has not happened. But on the other hand, I am well satisfied with the many measures that were supported by the Storting during the central government. I was responsible for some of them, e.g. no own junk message, St. report. No 8 for 1998-99, which is an action plan for disability interventions, as in force from 1998 to 2001. 161 measures are mentioned, 10 departments are involved, and there is a separate action plan for increasing occupational activity for people with disabilities. I also see the Manneråk selection as a very important contribution, where disabled people's rights are to be assessed in relation to the UN's standard rules. Let me also mention the development and legalisation of the personal assistant system and the clarification and proposals for action contained in the Equalisation Notice. In the Action Plan for Increasing Vocational Activity, which I expect the Brustad Council to come closer to, and on which I also expect it to follow up and inform the Stortinge about, for example. in the budget for the following year, reference is made to the value of targeted HMS work, both technically and organisationally, corresponding to the value of preventing and preventing occupational disability. It is important to strengthen the system of active medical reports and all that may come in connection with the Sandman selection. There is also a reference to the assistance necessary for the disabled, which will give more opportunities both to start work and to return. The central party believes it is important that the labour market seat gives priority to disabled people their opportunities through detention, through will and through action. One needs to focus more strongly than at present on young people with disabilities both to take education and to follow-up on work. I also think it is very nice to record the involvement of disabled people in the workplace to attract others – not least what happens in the data sector, where particular enterprises, for example. Telenor Business, has had a strong and affordable commitment. I have noticed an expectation of the EU’s work from both the former and the current Minister of Municipalities. I had the pleasure of meeting her, Commissioner for Social Affairs, Anna Diamantopoulou. It could tell something about the inequalities that exist within EU countries in relation to the situation of people with disabilities. It overestimates me that in this area it is important for us in our country to go along with the proposals and measures that we think are important. When it comes to removing the specificity of technical aids, our starting point is that the six-month limit will help each person get help faster. We are therefore not prepared to do so, but we see that there is a great need to strengthen the information on the legislation that is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e338	SV is very pleased that the proposal has now been accepted in principle, and that the government has been given a short time to submit a bill. It is impossible to live with a § 55A that does not include the prohibition of discrimination against disabled persons. It is a reality that disabled people are discriminated against, it is a welfare problem, and it is not ethically acceptable to do so. Unemployment among people with disabilities increases when it falls for all other groups. There is also a great need for all unemployed workers. Then we need to focus on resources, and among the disabled, there are many unused resources. When the bill comes, SV will be concerned that the Government does not use all the forces to minimise the concept of ‘disabled’, for example. by limiting it to the term ‘professional disability’. It is important that we now have a legal provision covering those who need it. SV will propose to remove another obstacle, i.e. the employer's excess of up to 1⁄2 G in case of organisation, so I will not mention it here. But we think it would also have been an important measure. Whether it is the employer or the state who is paying for it, it is no matter how small it is compared to the cost of social security if people do not come to work. However, if the law and the provisions are to be effective, the burden of proof and compensation must be imposed. An attitude signal, said Erna Solberg from the Right in his post. So I don't think it's enough that you decide this on the part of Stortinget if you don't have any rules that make it happen to someone who breaks the law. Attitudes don't change without a certain pressure, and there must be some consequences to breaking a law. The reverse burden of proof is important, because only the employer has access to the information needed to see the whole of the case. The point is that they have to prove that they have not discriminated in an innocuous way. They must have a factual justification. Assessment of suitability is factual. Not everyone can do any part of a job. But it's about more than those who are disabled. It is often the case that the employer is faced with the choice between different persons who have different qualifications or knowledge in relation to different parts of the job description that are the starting point. Compensation may be important because in some cases it will not be very attractive, for example. to obtain the right to the job which an unlawful person has not received because he has been discriminated against. I'm spending some time on this. Initially, the government of Jagland had presented Ot. pp. No 16 for 1997-98. It was not drawn by the government of Bondevik, so that there were actually two governments with an overwhelming majority in the Storting behind them that put forward a proposition where both the reverse burden of proof and compensation lay. When we last discussed the provisions, we included the ban on ethnic discrimination and discrimination against homosexuals and lesbians in the amendments. At that time, SV also made a similar proposal to what we are in favour of today. That means the government here has come further than the Storting. I think it's a little embarrassing that we're able to mess up these two important instruments that need to be put in place to make the provision effective and actually work in practice. I have the belief that when this case comes from the Government to the harvest, these things are in place. Previous legal work has found that they want to present this to the Stortinget, because they have seen that it has been necessary. So I trust that this is coming, and that the Storting then takes this in a slightly different way than you did the last time, because you couldn't get to the majority for any of the parts. Like the others who have spoken, I think this is an important milestone, but it's just a first step. The point of adopting such a law can't be that the Storting says: now we've done what's going to happen, because now we've said that it's not allowed to discriminate against people with disabilities. It is likely that there will need to be a little stronger instruments to ensure that legislation is effective in practice. I believe that the bulk of the population actually believes that such a law should not be a decoration, but a tool for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e357	As I also stated in the letter to the Municipal Committee of 28 April, I agree with the aim of the proposal of the representatives of Andersen and Ballo, to which the Municipal Committee has agreed, namely that disabled people should not be discriminated against in the workplace. I think that's a good starting point, and I'm very happy that there's so much excitement about it as it actually is. We want a working life that is for everyone. We want to stress that all people are equally worth it, and that everyone has something to do with making things right. And here are many who have a responsibility, both municipalities, counties, state, public and private, and that's a responsibility we have to share. I am also pleased that the Committee agrees that the proposal is now submitted to the Government for legal and other professional processing. We're going to try to do that job in a real way. We also want to work on the Odelstingsproposition, for example. look at the conclusions reached by the Manneråk Committee — as other speakers have pointed out — with regard to the rights of people with disabilities more generally. We will, of course, also see this in the context of the present proposal for a European directive on the prohibition of discrimination in the labour market on the basis of, inter alia, the proposal for a directive. Disability, although of course I'm aware that there are inequalities between countries. I think this is good, and the government will do what it can to get back to Stortinget with a case as quickly as it is practicable to do it. I have also noticed the Committee's wish that we come out with some more information, which can also be a contribution to ensure more disabled people a place in our working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e370	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e384	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e398	From research, it is claimed that Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries have the potential to increase value creation from about 30 billion DKK per year to 200 to 250 billion DKK per year from a 30-year perspective. If this option is to become more than a potential, the research effort has to be increased monthly. Norway has research institutions that claim to be completely at the tip of the world, and it's these environments that have secured Norway's tet position before farming. Our fisheries management is based on research in traditional fishing, which has very long traditions, and so Norway is a pioneer here. When managing St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, the Committee stated that: ‘It must be a goal for Norway to be the world’s leading fishing nation, where we are at the forefront of the development of fishing technology, aquaculture and industrial development’. [[...]] In addition, marine research was pointed out as a betting area in St.meld. No 39 for 1998-99, Research at a time. But the results don't come by themselves, and it costs money to get good research results. To date, fisheries and aquaculture industries have had their overall commitment to research and development rather small, even though there are honorable exceptions. It is therefore gratifying that there is an overall industry that ends up in the heart of a specific research and development fee of a generic nature. This levy shall not replace either the public or the industry-based efforts in this area and the Committee suggests that the State should provide an amount corresponding to the amount of the scheme to which the levy is made. There is reason to recall that the funds charged under the R & D levy will be public funds in accordance with international State aid legislation, including the State aid code. EU legislation. This means that resources cannot be used as the industry's private property in user-driven projects, where the results will only benefit the individual participant. The Committee emphasises that the scheme should not conflict with international legislation and thus provide a basis for trade restrictions on Norwegian exports of seafood. It is important that these schemes are broadly anchored in industry and the central business organisations when the board is to be set up. The system requires an agreement on the priority research activities to be undertaken, and the industry knows the best for itself. It should not be difficult to find current research tasks, but it may be challenging to prioritize in what order they should appear. I am confident that the Norwegian fishing industry is ready to meet this challenge. Now you need direction and pace. $200 to $250 billion in marine value creation over the course of 30 years. That's what the nutritionists know best about. The goal must be that we get from research for the money, without regard to who delivers it. The Board of Directors will then have to channel the fee resources through established systems such as the Norwegian Research Council and the State Food and Rural Development Fund. In this way, the project may need to weigh up, which can give us the results the industry needs to meet the challenges that we know are there, and those that will come in the years to come. The Committee has shared its views on the level of fees and the manner in which they are to be charged. The majority think that the fee should be 3 per million of the export value, while the minority, the Progress Party and the Right, mean that the fee should be 2 per million. The Committee has also shared the view of the recovery model, where the majority support its proposal to base option A by charging the export fee, while the Right and Advance Party have submitted option B in the proposal. Otherwise, the Committee agrees with the proposals from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e433	I just want to take up the minority proposal from the Progress Party and the Right, as it is included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e438	Terje Knudsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 481]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e454	In this case, the Committee, like the Norwegian Fisheries Team, has been concerned that the authorities should have a proper tool to implement the territorial limits that the industry wants. The Committee has also been concerned that future regulations drawn up in accordance with this provision should be discussed in depth with industry organisations. The authorities on which special attention is given to the opinions and assessments of the practitioners, so as to avoid new conflicts in other areas. The Committee also agrees with the Norwegian Fisheries Team that this provision is only used in cases where existing legislation and the management of our fishing resources are not adequately protected by quota fixing. Finally, it is stated that in the future, if larger vessels are to be required to fish further off the coast than is the case today, it must be noted that this could have consequences for the pattern of taxation and the degree of taxation of many of the species taxed. In view of the biodiversity agreements concluded, one of these reasons should be very restrictive in the use of the proposed mandate provision. Otherwise, there is a unanimous committee behind the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e467	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 482]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e481	Norwegian farming is a young industry and is over the first stage of development with testing and failure. The industry is now in its first range of research and knowledge-based industries. This means increasing responsibility for the operators in the farming industry. The strengthening of the environmental profile of farming law is a signal to the farming industry to increase the emphasis on the social responsibility of the industry to take care of the surrounding environment. The size has recently handled St.meld. No 43 for 1998-99, Protection and use in coastal zones. This message had different interests associated with the coastal zones discussed. We have to make the challenge of taking both business and environmental considerations. Without success in this work, it is not advisable to extract the value creation potential in the Norwegian breeding industry. In this case, too, I would like to mention that researchers claim that marine value creation can reach between 200 and 250 billion dollars over a 30-year period. This means that the production in farming must be multiplied, not only by salmon and aure, but also by new species, such as cod, durum wheat, bitumen, tubes, various skeletons and bumblebees. Success factor No. 1 is that we can take care of the natural foremons that we have along the Norwegian coast. Here you can find one of the most nutritious marine areas in the world. We have little run-off of nutrient salt from land, as there is rather little population along the coast. The sea is clean and, as it is cold, qualities that are suitable for the breeding of our most relevant species. The environmental factor is not only success factor No. 1 for the production of farming species, but also a decisive factor in closing down the market work that needs to be done to make provision for our products. We have a small market, and we can't use all the products ourselves in any way. Our success depends on the fact that large customer groups have confidence in our production methods and the environment in which our marine product is manufactured. In the absence of a hearing, this perspective is presented as of particular importance. On the part of the board of directors, monthly more attention is needed to develop a law to meet the needs of the farming industry in the coming years. Then there is a need for both renewal and simplification. It is therefore positive that the Ministry of Fisheries intends to carry out a holistic review of the farming law. Where an authorisation system for farms, equipment and equipment used for farming is now established in the breeder’s law, as well as internal control and environmental monitoring requirements, this must be seen in the light of the fact that the farming industry will subsequently make demands for a larger area in the coastal zone. It is important to be able to document the activities and measures taken to manage the use of the shared resource as a coastal zone. For the same reason, proposals are made to allow the introduction of a ban on farming activities in specific areas. This could reduce the level of conflict with other interests. By providing an environmental audit of farming laws, the industry will be more rusty when different interests are to be weighed up against one another. It is gratifying that the industry itself has joined forces with the various hearing authorities in this audit. In recent years, significant improvements have been made in the health and environmental status of the aquaculture industry, but there are still several challenges. It applies in particular to farms which have their environmental impacts on the environment around them, to escape problems, to salmon and fish diseases. In such a perspective, it is necessary to provide for the introduction of an approval system for floating rearing facilities. The system is the first in its kind in the world, and the industry itself emphasizes the hold of such a system. It will be able to distinguish unprofessional actors, who are one should for an expansive industry that must have legitimacy right when it comes to being able to expand. In line with the emphasis now placed on industry’s social responsibility for the environment around the plant, an internal control system is being put in place to coordinate the supervision of the forces of marine, veterinary and impurity governance. A system that ensures compliance with the Breeding Law is in the farmers’ own interests and will form a natural part of the company’s quality assurance system. This, on the one hand, provides the basis for the necessary evidence for required customers and may give positive competitive advantage in the performance of the market. Proposals are also made for the continuation of the buffer zone system, which will limit the contact area between farmed fish and wild fish stocks. Given the area of the industry’s disposal on behalf of the community and the fact that there are exclusive concessions, it is reasonable, in the view of the majority, that fees are charged to the expenditure incurred by public administrations in connection with the farming industry. However, it must be stressed that the cost to the industry must be kept under control. The minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, want to wait for such a fee until a comprehensive revision of the Breeding Law has been made, and wish to have a review of the industry's fee and charge loads carried out in different areas. Where criminal liability is involved, the breeding industry must be compensated for by other industries to which it is natural to compare. There is a great deal of responsibility on the operators in the industry as it is about Norway’s reputation as a reliable supplier of seafood in an international market. It's a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e515	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 482]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e529	The President will propose that the submissions be limited to 10 minutes and that no line be drawn. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e534	I first want to mention the suggestions included in the setting. Medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation are important benefits. As disability and sick leave increase, pressures and demands in the workplace increasingly demand new skills and skills, faster and faster changes and iron health are required, both rehabilitation and rehabilitation are becoming increasingly important. Medical rehabilitation and rehabilitation are about focusing on resources more than on problems. Essentially, the performance shall cover the maintenance of life, but the facilities themselves must contribute to the maximum success of rehabilitation. The majority in the Committee are satisfied with the Government's proposals for both changes in the rules and levels of performance. SV and Right have some divergent suggestions. I'll explain the SV's proposal a little later. Major changes are being made to the system. The basis of calculation is changed, benefits are now pensionable and there is a high social contribution. The minimum performance is raised to 1,6 G and the additional services tested are removed and replaced by fixed additions according to the model of the unemployment allowance. The government and the majority propose redistribution between the social partners – cost neutrality – as an economic framework for the conversion. After SV's consent, it means that one becomes more concerned with getting the math to go up to zero in the end, than that the performance should cover what they are going to do. The rules should be easier to understand and practice. That's good. Simplification must lead to the effective use of freed resources for follow-up and better services to users, and to the effective use of them. Because the need test takes more account of the individual and the different needs of different families and persons, a switch to standard performance will require a levelling of benefits so that they do not become so low that some do not manage and are forced into social assistance. The rules on economic social assistance force one to realize values that may be absolutely necessary to cope with a wider professional and family life, for example: house and home, or car in a phase of life where it is important not to lose heart and feet. It may tear down the basis for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The Committee supports the conversion of the calculation basis from the rules of disability to the same calculation basis as for unemployment benefits, but the majority of the Committee is concerned that the three-year calculation period may be too short and may affect women more than men, because many women choose to tackle health and wear problems by reducing the position. This slowdown can cause them to lose financially in the way it is now, and we ask the government to report back to the Storting on how this works, and possibly make proposals if it turns out that it is falling as we have feared. The government proposes that the conversions be cost-neutral. To improve one system, another must be removed or weakened. The majority support this principle. SV is against it. We're referring to the one that the Equalisation Communication has established, that there is a need for redistribution between those who have high incomes and those who have low incomes. The message also suggests that the increasing differences are due to increased concentration of capital income of the richest and reduced professional participation of other groups. So it's the target population of the proposition we're dealing with today. The government has called for caution here on behalf of these groups, and it does not suggest that the social security benefits of any of them are the reason why the differences increase. On the contrary. The group that needs to complement social security benefits with social assistance is overrepresented among long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. The low increase in the basic amount of population wealth compared to the increase in employee income in the same period explains why it is becoming increasingly difficult for insured persons to cope with daily expenditure. For SV, it has been absolutely essential that there should be redistribution between groups, and not between the insured, and that one should deliver according to ability and obtain as needed. The government and the majority are in favour of increasing the minimum benefit from 1 G to 1,6 G, and introducing benefit for child care of persons during resettlement and the same general child allowance as those receiving a daily allowance, DKK 17 per. Children per day day five days a week. SV believes that these performances are too tight. Should it be appropriate to remove the need test, the minimum amount must be raised to 2 G. There is no high income. Well, a few people here might think that it's possible to live off it. We think it's important to ensure a slightly higher income for those with the lowest basis of calculation. Many users have complex problems, and the prospects for good pay in the future are small. The starting point for those who are concerned is a permanent decline in their ability to work and too many restricted professional choices. Training and job training will therefore be extra demanding. In a difficult life situation, one should be motivated, not just to recover health and morbidity, but to a life with a view to lastingly low incomes. In the SV’s view, the conversion must therefore aim at establishing a fair and motivating system that does not cause any poverty problem. In a difficult life situation, both training and work must be motivated, and it is important not to use all the forces to try to survive financially in the short term. It is important for society that as much success as possible in this. So the benefits that are put in to achieve that must not be so tight that they take the courage from people. In particular, it is important to ensure that families with children do not live in poverty. The Committee supports the proposal to introduce benefits for the supervision of children. For those who have children, it is absolutely vital. In the opinion of the SV, one cannot carry out either rehabilitation or rehabilitation without knowing that one can afford to ensure that the children are safe. The standard child care performance is approximately equivalent. NOK 1 360 per year. month for the first child, and 700 for the remaining. The rate is low in relation to the cost of a kindergarten. SV suggests that persons in medical rehabilitation also receive the right to benefit from child care and that the rates should be increased to NOK 2000 for the first child and NOK 1000 for the next. So to the children's supplement: $17! I don't know who's arrived at such an amount, but it's obvious to most people that it's quite small. SV has proposed to look at this in the context of the message on living conditions for children and young people who were notified of the treatment of the Equalisation message. Today's scheme will give you a maximum payment of NOK 14 087 per day. years, while this new proposal means a maximum of NOK 4 420. So it's a pretty big drop. The Code for the Abbreviation of Social Security is also different for stays in somatic hospitals and other institutions. Something has been fixed in connection with the processing of the dithering message. SV believes that this should be equated and the Committee is satisfied with the current curtailment rules. The government and the majority also want to go in order to eliminate the possibility of earning 1⁄2 G in addition to reintroduction benefits. SV and Right have disagreed and believe that this is a positive tool to maintain motivation and to give encouragement to work. One has to get something back in the pay bag. SV and Right want this possibility also to be provided to users of medical rehabilitation. For technical reasons, this exemption is proposed for the abbreviation form that a free number of hours can be worked. In addition, there are a number of individual changes which the Committee unanimously concludes. The government has been fully informed of its views during the Committee's proceedings. The aberrant proposals are entirely minority proposals. Finally, I would like to draw attention to a proposal that SV is now once again promoting, which we have previously promoted as a Document No. Eight proposals. This is to cover the cost of the necessary school supplies for approved rehabilitation facilities. For some, this might be about spending on a few thousand copies more than what they get covered. For the state, this is a small amount of money, for those who live on social security, it may be impossible, for example. increasing the amount of the loan – perhaps not even getting a loan because they can afford it badly. When the Council of State takes a look at that matter, I am convinced that he will clean up this sea. He sees that this is a petty unfairness, and that a saves small money and lets hundreds of thousands go, because the risk of not doing this is that people, for economic reasons, do not dare to carry out a rehabilitation scheme, and that you will be permanently insured. I think it's important to focus on removing some of these little stumble threads in our work so that more people can use their resources in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e580	Karin Andersen has addressed the suggestions she has referred to. Before we proceed, the President will propose that Mr Odelstinget complete the proceedings. 7 in the morning meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e585	Thank you, President, for giving us the opportunity to finalise the matter at the morning meeting. When the Stortinge in May 1996 addressed the position of the Social Committee on the so-called welfare communication, an overall committee considered that it was unfortunate that rehabilitation and rehabilitation funds were calculated in the same way as disability pensions, which are initially a lasting benefit. One of the main objectives of this proposition is therefore to amend the calculation rules in such a way as to make it visible that rehabilitation and resettlement benefits are short-term benefits and not pensions, and that the aim of rehabilitation and resettlement is for the recipient of the money to return to work. It is important to remove the impression that rehabilitation and rehabilitation are just something to be tried before disability pension is provided. Another main purpose of the changes in the calculation rules is to release administrative resources for more active assistance to persons during resettlement. This is important! Today’s legislation is complicated and has an unfavourable labour market divide between the social security and labour market seats. The new rules of calculation enable the labour market seat to calculate the recovery allowance, a function which is currently in the social security system. Thus, users are more likely to relate to one establishment. Furthermore, it has been a prerequisite for the Storting's earlier examination that proposals for reforms should be so-called cost neutral. This has been followed up in the proposal by covering proposals involving increased expenditure through corresponding constraints. This is also one of the reasons why there are no proposed changes in popular protection to develop existing welfare schemes — one of several explanations. In such a complex and complex system as social security, changes in legislation will necessarily result in redistribution effects. However, these effects are consistently small, with the exception of the proposal to replace the current household benefit with a child care supplement. An overall committee agrees with this. However, SV believes that the social security rate is too low, as explained by the rapporteur, and also proposes to extend the scheme to persons receiving rehabilitation benefits. The Labour Party will not support the proposal to the SV, which is, moreover, an innovation in public security. However, we will show that the whole problem complex – health money, rehabilitation, rehabilitation and disability pension – is under investigation by the Sandman Committee. We will therefore come back to many of the positions that SV has already taken when we are going to deal with the setting from this sample at a later stage. In all these areas, we face extremely serious challenges both in maintaining the workforce and in mastering social security expenditure. Changes of this type proposed here by SV, and insofar as the proposal of the Right and SV to maintain a monthly allowance of 1⁄2 G for persons undergoing professional rehabilitation and, at the same time, to extend the scheme to persons undergoing medical rehabilitation, go well beyond a conversion of the calculation basis, and may, in the worst case, undermine the possibility of an overall approach to the problem complex outlined. Thus, the starting point of the proposition is a technical and administrative review of the rules on rehabilitation and return payments with a view to releasing resources aimed at providing more assistance to persons in the process of rehabilitation. Combating poverty is another important element of the proposition. The Equalisation Communication, which is being discussed in the Storting Social Committee, points out that the problem of living conditions is often the result of a lack of links with the labour market. A simpler and better regulation, to which it is added, frees resources that can be used for better rehabilitation and rehabilitation, thereby allowing more people to return to normal work, to education or to work better, thereby contributing to the objectives of employment policy and the policy of distribution. The proposals in the proposal involve a certain redistribution of benefits. The new calculation rules will give them, without or with a lower income, a higher level of rehabilitation or re-routing than under current rules. This will provide a not insignificant improvement in the economic situation of this group. Furthermore, estimates show that people with interruptions in their professional life, e.g. as a result of care for children, who, under current rules, normally have low pension entitlements, in many cases will be able to receive higher benefits under the new calculation rules. The transitional rules suggested in the proposal are rusty and based on the fact that those within a re-routing cycle are largely not required to change their performance while the re-routing is in progress. Neither will persons within a continuous benefit be met with the effects of the conversion. It will only apply to new cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e602	This bill had a side effect on the purposes mentioned earlier, including the essential purpose of getting more people to work. Being at rehabilitation and rehab would be a short-term relationship. It's eighty-eight that there's as many people as we're now on the wrong side of our society. Therefore, it is more important than ever before to try to get in at a previous time, before one is transferred to disability, and to get people to take part in some preventive measures of a different nature, so that one can get more people to work. The law has to make it easier to understand and practice. It's important. This is why it is also important that a change in the basis of calculation be made, for which proposals are now being made. It will again show, as mentioned earlier, that the rehabilitation situation is a temporary relationship, in line with unemployment and sick leave. The purpose of changing the basis of calculation was also to release resources for active work, to help people who were in the process of being reinstated, so that we achieve the purpose, to get more people to work. The shortest possible time to recover and rehabilitate, it is for the benefit of those in debt. Otherwise, I will refer you to the article from the Workers' Party's spokesman, Odd Eriksen, whom I fully support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e611	The legislative proposal on medical rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation that we are now dealing with has the main objective of helping more people to get into work. Unfortunately, there are many examples of young people and older people who have experienced that this has not always been the case. Many people have had the experience that the best thing for the agencies that were to work on this was that the client/patient – or the name we use – had been dissatisfied. This is also the concern expressed by an overall committee, namely the sharp increase in the number of disabled people we have experienced in recent years. It is my strong belief that medical rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation would have been a much better measure for a number of those who have gradually become disqualified. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore important that the legislative proposal also aims to simplify the law. There are many examples that we have received different interpretations of the law depending on where you have lived and lived in the country, and depending on which office has been responsible for the administration of the law. The Committee therefore also stresses the importance of cooperation between the health, social security and labour market sectors. If we are to achieve the objectives, to get more people to work, by the success of medical rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation, these institutions must have good cooperation and not regard their responsibilities as something that belongs to us, but that the law is there to serve the user. One of the good things about the amendment is that benefits are now made pensionable. The concepts to be used can be discussed, but the Christian People's Party is pleased with the promise that, after all, lies in the proposal regarding statutory benefits for those who receive the least, namely – as pointed out by the case-law rapporteur – from 1 G to 1.6 G. It is also important to stress that some of the purpose now is to release funds so that more human resources can be used for active assistance, active work, to carry out medical rehabilitation and vocational rehabilitation. The Christian People's Party also agrees with the proposal to eliminate the inequalities between the rates of disability benefit and medical rehabilitation and occupational rehabilitation, so that we no longer experience situations where disability benefit is actually chosen for economic reasons. The Christian People's Party ends up with the laws that have been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e630	Like the other batches, the other batches have positive expectations for the simplifications to be achieved in the wake of the proposition and the setting. We see the possibility of a more targeted system to bring the above-mentioned groups back to meaningful work. We see the need to raise the minimum performance, accept the limited redistribution and appreciate the signal effect aimed at work and labour income instead of a social security-based calculation method. The complexity of today’s legislation is not only labour-intensive, it is also demonstrated that it causes significant errors, which cannot even be measured. Simplifying freed resources are intended to provide better services. Nevertheless, there is an idea of cost neutrality as a consequence of the conversion. We get to believe that this reasoning is also reflected in a later evaluation – although the department's calculations of economic and administrative consequences do not always last in retrospect. Let me also draw attention to the fact that in a minority proposal, the right side of the proposal is a little stressful for Proven Neutrality, as we go in to maintain the possibilities of a 1⁄2 G earnings through work without directly shortening the benefits. We still think this is right, and we have the opposite analysis of what the ministry has in terms of incentives for contact with the labour market. It has not been possible to get a fully sustainable estimate of the proceeds effect of this, all the while the ministry obviously does not have such a short-term account as a tool. In any case, our view is clear: having an extra motive for minimum contact with working life through a short-term performance will increase the chances of a future in professional life rather than a long-term future based on social security. So this is the only point where the right-hand side of the equation deviates from the majority of this position. Noteworthyly, we distinguish layers by a majority on an equality or reverse equality theme that relates to the motive for the fraction of part-time work relative to health. This was also mentioned as a theme in SV’s articles. Here we think the majority goes a little too far in expecting an unfortunate effect of women's special way of dealing with loads, and similarly too far in ordering – or expecting – changes from the Government. Finally, we see it as very correct that, for example, a maximum amount of disputeable household expenditure will be removed in the course of refurbishment. Another example is that a need-tested child supplement is converted into a simpler fixed supplement. It also has a fundamental value that a social security network does not necessarily have to be found in many agencies as long as we have a social system in this country and a housing bank with housing support that can deal with the kind of issues that are being dealt with. Our proposal has already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e645	The important thing to give more opportunities for rehabilitation and rehabilitation is better organisation and follow-up. Realising the rehabilitation message, and in particular the proposal for a local coordinator, believes the Center Party will be decisive for more people to be able to close. Let me just point out from that message quite quickly that the individual is to be met with respect, that the municipality, the social security system and the social security system are specifically conscious of both the particular responsibility of the individual and the joint responsibility they have for follow-up, like the attitude and will that must exist both from the individual and from the employer. The proposition today is one of several issues that has been put forward by the central government and that the labor party government is now following up. It's a result of some kind of work. A primary objective is simplification, resource release for follow-up. Another important task is to strengthen the economy of a rehabilitation and rehabilitation period for those who have suffered or no income. It is also important to improve the situation of young people. I am happy that rehabilitation and resettlement benefits are now becoming pensionable income. There is, of course, reason to ask questions about individual elements of the proposals that are presented here. When the starting point is a neutral proceeds, it goes without saying that when someone has to raise to the bottom, there is another one that has to surface. It's going to be a simplification, for example. of the household contribution will, of course, imply a change for someone who will go out against others. I'm happy with the work done so far. I think it's right to sidestep the level here on single rates of daily money, but I would like to draw the line below the need that will now be for the government to follow carefully the results that may be, and especially the unintended results, and report it back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e656	The attitude of the Municipal Committee shows that a broad consensus has been reached on most of the Government's proposals. I'm very pleased with that. It is important to amend the calculation rules in this area. A connection from the Stortinget to the principles for the calculation of rehabilitation and rehabilitation benefits will indicate that the purpose of the effort is for persons undergoing rehabilitation and rehabilitation to return to work. Better and simpler rules also release administrative resources that can be used for more active assistance to persons during resettlement. And these resources should not be used for budgetary purposes – this was addressed to the representative Lodve Solholm. This point is important to the Government. In our ambitions to modernise public administration, we focus on less detailed management and further decentralisation. It gives greater local freedom of action. In the areas proposed by theproposition, the implementing legislation has been unnecessarily extensive and unbridled. The amendments provide a simpler and better regulatory framework with an increased focus on the objectives and content of the reintroduction. The new calculation rules are a follow-up to St.meld. No 35 for 1994-95, welfare notification. The calculation of the rehabilitation and resettlement allowance shall no longer follow the calculation of the disability pension, in line with what was signaled. The changes make it visible that the benefits are temporary benefits for the maintenance of life and that the aim of rehabilitation and rehabilitation is for the person to return to work. Although the attitude of the municipal committee shows that there is support for the Ministry's proposal for new calculation rules, I have noticed that the majority of the committee is concerned about at least one side of the new calculation rules. The rules assume that the income conditions of the last three years before the loss of income shall be the basis for the calculation of the refund. The concerns of the majority of committees are related to the impact on women of the calculation rules at this point. This can be done by women themselves choosing to reduce their position in the event of a impact on the calculation basis at a later stage. I will therefore, as requested by the majority, follow this question carefully and see if the calculation rules can adversely affect this group. The starting point for work with Ot.prp. No 48 was therefore to carry out a technical and administrative review of the legislation on rehabilitation and repatriation. There was no broad review of the performance as such. For this reason, changes in public security are not primarily proposed to develop existing welfare schemes. I point out that the entire problem complex health money, rehabilitation/attacking and disability pension is under investigation by the Sandman Committee. There is reason to await the evaluations of the sample so that we can see the context in this area and provide the basis for solutions that ensure a holistic approach to the challenges. In this area, we face extremely serious challenges in maintaining the labour force, combating inaction and mastering social security expenditure, as well as extracting the labour reserve in this group. It is a challenge, but I am not in doubt that with good cooperation we should be able to find sensible solutions, while keeping our eyes fixed on the problems that SV is also raising in the committee position through their proposals. We are all concerned about the increase in the number of disability pensioners and high costs of sick pay. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 48 contributes to continued active efforts towards this development. The calculation rules will clearly mark the goal of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Simplification of rules will release administrative efforts and strengthen professional work. This, together with the major work being done in thefield of return, is a good basis to build on to meet the additional challenges of growth in the number of disability pensioners. And I want to add: there are a few people who want to become disability pensioners because they want a quiet and quiet everyday life. Most people feel that they are forced into a disability pension because they do not go to work. That's the challenge we have to face. Last year's Labour Market Act recorded an average of about 53 100 persons with a working disability. On average, 44 000 of these participated in labour market measures. This number has increased in recent years, and that means that about 80 pst. participation at all times in active measures by persons with reduced mobility. 50 pst. by those who have completed the re-entry, move to active solutions and more are transferred to new work. The good results have a background in high demand for labour, but also a qualitatively good backlog in the labour market. Furthermore, the challenge will be to develop these labour market measures instead of reducing them. The gain will be that more people come to work, and it will be a significant gain for the individual and for society as such. The extensive contact and cooperation of the ETAs with employers is an important contribution to achieving the objectives of shifting at least half of the disabled into active solutions. The proposals in Ot.prp. No 48 will strengthen and further develop this work through the emphasis of the calculation rules on the objective of work and a simpler regulatory framework that will have administrative implications. In particular, I am pleased that the proposals, which will lead to simplifications both for administration and for individuals, will have a majority. The current rules are complex and labour-intensive for the social security and labour market seat and difficult to understand for the beneficiaries. The new calculation rules will reduce administrative work and facilitate easier interaction between the levels by taking over the labour market seat. This effect will be used for closer follow-up and better service. I would like to stress that much of the effort needs to be directed towards continuous improved cooperation between the individual, the treating physician, the working life, the former employers, the social security office and the labour market seat. This is important and necessary for us to succeed in the further work. This will also provide the basis for a safer solution in terms of performance management and reduce what we have seen in the past: the excessive error payments – whether they go in one direction or in the other. This also provides an improved basis for the overall rehabilitation and rehabilitation work, which, in turn, is a prerequisite for dampening the strong access to the disability pension scheme. It is of itself important because there are expectations of the efforts of both departments in this critical area of society, both individually and collectively. There are still many unsolved tasks that will require a great deal of effort from the Social Security and Labour Market Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e679	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e683	It was the post of the Workers' Party representative that made me take the floor. It was said that going for the proposals that SV is promoting today would undermine the possibility of the overall review that the Sandman Committee is providing. That's what I thought was exaggerating. No matter what kind of system we adopt today, it will give leadership. This means that you are more committed to what you adopt today than to what you have had before – that is obvious. But if you choose one or the other solution, it can't give you a stronger bond than another. I would like to remind you once again that the anti-dithering message, which two governments have submitted, is being processed in parallel. The message points to the fact that the group we are dealing with today is just covering those who need to strengthen their economy. Those who have the greatest chance of becoming poor are those who have the combination of little connection to employment and poor health. That is why SV has wanted to increase these benefits already today, not on a general basis, but because the Equalisation Communication has demonstrated that redistribution of social security as a principle is not sufficient if poverty is to be eliminated. I would also like to point out that social assistance – as a safety net – is governed by rules that force one to realize values in order to be allowed to access resources. These are – as everyone who has been up here has said – temporary arrangements that, in a transition, will help people who are in crisis back to work again. Maybe having to sell their house in such a period, I think I can take the courage from quite a lot – if you were to end up in such a situation. The problem is that when you remove the need tests, you can more easily end up in such a situation. It will therefore be absolutely necessary to raise some of the performances. I believe that it should also be possible to focus something more on improving the situation of families with children than what we have done in connection with the treatment, also with reference to what has been said in the Equalisation Notice. The equalisation message is also about shortening social security if you are staying at an institution. And the setting says: ‘Some patients terminate institutional residence because the personal economy is becoming too poor.’... ‘These are persons who are actively being treated for work and, if the treatment ends, the likelihood of success is low.’ I think we have been given a very serious information here. This shows that if you are somatically ill, you get rid of the abbreviation, but if you have a drug problem or a mental problem, you can risk that patients print out, simply because they don't have the money to pay their bills. I think that must be terribly inappropriate, and that is why SV has opposed these last paragraphs of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05-lower.ana.ud601e701	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is too long. [[Fotation, see page 484]] The President will propose that the meeting at Odelstinget be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
