ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e52	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the remaining meetings of the Stortinge this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e57	I'd like to propose Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e62	Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget’s remaining meetings this week. Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15.00, until the current map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e78	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e89	The central parties and the Labour Party have easily agreed on a common draft budget for our three frameworks. No alternative proposal is available. Both conditions are due to the new budgeting procedure of the Storting, which is under test. I strongly disagree with that. I hope it will at least be significantly adjusted, so that the professional committees, for example. can correct detected distortions without the need to rage other measures within a framework area. However, it is quite natural, in my view, that these parties agreed on the economic framework conditions for business. It is miles away from the thinking of the Progress Party and the Right present in the financial position, and which is only little noticed in the position of this Committee. It is all the more scary and incomprehensible when the Workers' Party joins with these two in important individual matters, such as: the establishment of agricultural holdings. It is positive for industry that the centre parties and the Workers' Party agreed to remove the cyclical charge, that the electricity charge to all industry is being withheld, that the sulphur charge is halved, that the investment fee and the small-scale divisional model are to be eliminated in the next round, that travel life is to be reduced by VAT, and that the food tax is halved. It is no wonder that the public thank-you letter from the National Association of Process Industries begins as follows: ‘Once again, the Stortinget, as a decision-making body, has provided a sound basis for a sensible industrial policy. It calls for recognition of the political environment.’.» And the continuation was just as positive. The process industry has announced investment plans of DKK 14 billion in the next few years in installations on land. Of other important improvements in budgetary work in relation to the Workers' Party's proposals, I mention additions to the Norwegian Tourist Council, the Export Council, the Institute of Technology and the National Institute of Guidance in North Norway, the SND's district effort and nutrient research. For coastal industries, it is important that the appropriations for electronic navigational charts and for the Rescue Company are put in place. The anti-coastal proposal to auction away new breeding concessions has been buried. The construction of the research ship «G. O. Sars can start in 2001, I hope so. I am particularly pleased that the Financial Committee gave the Business Committee the opportunity to negotiate the semi-state investment company that has now been cleared in principle. The ministry deserves commendation to leave the Stortinget to discuss the premises for this split between state and private equity. I think that the sketch that is made will result in a quick feedback from the department with your two clearances in Stortinget, so that a new tool for profitable value creation can be established in Norway. For the Centre Party, it is important that this company should act as a long-term and active owner in order to build and secure headquarters and development centres in Norway. It is important to investigate and clarify how the country's involvement in this company should be linked to other instruments that the country has to create innovation and good ownership, such as: SIVA, SND Invest, the Swedish Social Security Fund, the Seed Funds and the Research Council. I am pleased that the Committee has stated that the proposed change in which ships covered by the reimbursement scheme for seafarers are not to be implemented. The Committee will await a review of all arrangements to contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers both on the coast, on the pedestal and abroad. The central party feels that such a review is urgent, and that increased resources must also be deployed to develop forward-looking and environmentally friendly maritime transport solutions, including: for the rapidly increasing volume of seafood. I am pleased that there is an overall committee asking the Minister for Fisheries to inform the Storting about the overall situation in the fishing industry, which has led to the widespread illegalities that are now being reported. For Storting, it is most important to make sure that our management of fishing resources remains credible and sustainable, and that quota determinations are based on good enough data both on fish in the sea and on the catch. The numerous requests for the watch areas of the new veterinary watch system have resulted in comments from the Committee. I would like the Council of State to note that a joint committee underlines the quality requirements laid down in the principle decision in the autumn. The new scheme should also improve livestock and livestock owners. The Committee has been told in consultations by representatives of the State Animal Health Authority that a system of 120 watch areas is not sound. There'll be too much driver and too little animal. A majority of the Committee shall be required not to put the system into effect until an agreement has been concluded with the Veterinary Association, which is the guarantee the Storting may have in this case. The majority point to the large resources that district veterinarians can represent if they are included in the clinical watch regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e123	The chairperson of the Committee began by repeating part of the intermediate parties' cooperation with the Workers' Party on which a budgetary settlement was made. I'm going to get a little bit closer to what's not being mentioned, and that's good for the Center Party as well. The actual ratio is just 40 pst. by small and medium-sized enterprises survive more than five years, many of which are district enterprises. And you can ask yourself how business-friendly the Center Party is when they go in to increase the tax on dividends and give reduced depreciation opportunities. This is particularly affecting those companies with the lowest profits and located in the districts. Many central pickers in this niche feel that the Center Party doesn't think about them. One feels that there are many traditional instruments the Center Party wants to take advantage of, and they won't come down on Earth and see that we are now living in an international society. How does the new taxes and taxes contained in the budget agreement coincide with the district profile of the Central Party and the expressed willingness to create values and secure housing in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e132	The fact that we have a lot of innovation in Norway will also mean that some of those who start new have to give up. I think it is great that many in Norway want to start their own business. A newspaper article last week reported on a survey that showed that Norway is now the European champion of new start-ups – five times as many as in Finland, as far as I remember, as compared to the population, and three times as many as in Ireland. I think that's great. And I think it's great that we have public arrangements to help them get started, and that will also help them a little bit along the way, arrangements that the Progress Party will remove. I'm sure we would have far fewer start-ups if the Right and Advance Party policies had been implemented. It is important that we support companies that have not yet started and that have not started making money – I think that is very important. I would not have thought that the tax on dividends had affected those who had not yet started and received a profit. If it is the case that profits are collected from enterprises that have not yet reached the stage and are stable, we should in all cases have measures to encourage capital to remain in the enterprise. That's what the Center Party is most concerned about. We're concerned that we're going to have a building ownership that leaves the values largely left behind, as it's very often in family businesses. We have improved the model presented by the Workers' Party when it comes to share taxation, by making it a lower tax rate. We have improved it in this way, so that those who take out a small profit in terms of dividends do not get this tax. I think it's important improvements, and we're going to discuss it further when we're going to propose a new tax regime for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e141	The committee leader talked about improvements. However, the fact is that there are improvements in relation to the proposals of the Labour Party Government, while, almost without exception, deterioration in the framework conditions of Norwegian business has been made to work in the coming period, compared to the framework conditions under which the same business has lived in the current year. That is the fact of the draft budget on which the Labour Party and the Centre have agreed. I registered that the committee leader failed to talk about competitive jobs. And then I am thinking not least of the negotiating position in relation to the forthcoming WTO negotiations. I record that the people of the Senter Party in the organisation No to the EU flag high the need to notify us and cancel the EEA agreement Norway has. And then my questions are to the committee leader: does the committee leader see what kind of consequences this will have for Norwegian district-based jobs that are almost without exception exposed to competition, if you cancel an existing EEA agreement? Do not the main representatives of the Central Party listen to, for example, those from the fishing industry who are very concerned about the market situation in the context of the ongoing and forthcoming Central and Eastern Europe enlargement of the EU? I think it will be useful and a certain need for the Central Party to be able to point out what kind of industries are district-based, which will benefit greatly from Norway terminating the EEA Agreement? For me, it is more than enough whether the committee leader mentions three to four examples of industries that will make a great deal of sense in cancelling the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e148	As an alternative to the EEA Agreement, Norway has a free trade agreement that we had in the past and that would have been a good deal for most people. We have a country in Europe called Switzerland, which has just concluded a country agreement with the EU on free trade. Switzerland does not have the worst of it today, given that they have not had such a free trade agreement as we had. I believe that a model of the kind that Switzerland has now come up with could well have been used as a model for our negotiations as well if it was such that we were to cancel the EEA Agreement. Ivar Kristiansen says that I did not mention competitive business. We almost do not have businesses that are not exposed to competition in Norway. Well, what's least competitive is our fisheries, at home. We compete outside, but at home we compete a little. And I'm very pleased that we have a fishing industry, where resources are protected from being excluded from the EEA Agreement. Then we have the areas where the EEA Agreement applies and where it creates problems for us. We have had to remove the border control, which could be a good help for us today in terms of food security. A good part of the North Norway and along the coast experience the problems of Norway implementing the EEA requirements for fishing in a more stringent way than any other country and causing some fishing practices to be closed down. We are going to meet even more stringent requirements in a number of areas. I think we could do well without the EEA Agreement. It was a shame that we got it, and that people were imagined that it was an agreement that had only good sides and that had no negative sides. We see every day that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e161	Research efforts are invaluable to industry in the future. A unanimous committee says that there is a long way to go before you have achieved the goal you have set for research. - And that's it. If one comes to that level, it still lacks approx. 4 billion kroner to achieve the goal we have set until 2005. This has repeatedly been said by Stortinget that it is actually going to be carried out, and I could imagine asking the Centre Party and the committee leader how the nutrition committee has taken some action to ensure that this objective of research is achieved that is absolutely essential for us to have a competitive, environmentally friendly and sustainable business life in the future. In addition to that, I could imagine asking the representative Lund about some of what he had to say in his answer instead, namely the need to strengthen our work and our efforts for clean food. SV has made a proposal today, asking to strengthen the control and control functions of the authorities in relation to measures against animal diseases, food safety and animal protection. And that means recognising – in the light of what is happening now both in the EU and in Norway – that there must be both stricter rules and a larger control apparatus in order to deal with these provisions and ensure that the provisions we have are actually complied with. Because there is not so much help in having strict laws if you know that you will never be looked at in the cards, never be checked and never be taken to do anything wrong. That means that we need to step up our efforts in these areas and not continue to believe that we are the best in the world in terms of food security and security in that area too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e170	Increased research efforts up to the OECD level in five years is a common objective for all parties on the Stortinget. And the question from Karin Andersen is a little like the question from Ivar Kristiansen: why haven't the central parties managed to correct everything that was missing in the Labour Party's draft budget? And I hope – no, I really hope not that the Right and SV will ever get in the position that they are going to join in and try to fix what someone else has presented. It was too difficult to reach as high a level of research funding as we wanted, and that is because we have to negotiate with another party and reach agreement within a framework that is also to be accepted in Stortinget. We hope that there will be a case for the Stortinget as soon as possible on the basis of the Hervik Committee's position, which relates to tax incentives to the companies that invest in research and development. In particular, it is the industry that is lagging behind, even though public spending on research has to go beyond what is being done today. I think there are good solutions for some industries now, with research fees on the products. Tomorrow we will deal with a matter of research fees for agricultural products, and we have dealt with a matter of such a charge on fishery products. The involvement of industry with common resources for research leads, inter alia, to: that it's not just the big ones who have good advice, who become owners of research results. I think it is a big problem today that so much of the public money goes to the shackles with the big companies, which then get some kind of ownership of research results. So for pure food, which is the big theme now a day. I think the first thing we have to do is make sure that we do not destroy the status we have today. We've removed a lot of control, which makes the new control extremely difficult for us, because we don't have border control anymore. The control we've had now is $640 million. kr, and it was planned for next year. We can risk doubling over the next year, it looks like right now. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e187	It is imperative to draw up and establish a budget at a time when Norwegian business is going for a full machine, we have full employment and a large surplus on the state budget. For Norwegian business, however, it is entirely decisive that the Government and the Stortinget have the power to carry out this job within a responsible framework. None of us have forgotten the developments in the 1980s, with increasing prices, increasing unemployment and huge difficulties for Norwegian business, a situation none of us want us to come back to. It is the second year in a row that the Centre Party and the Labour Party have found a settlement in budgetary work. In particular, this is not so strange, because the intersection of Norwegian policies is between the Labour Party and the Centre Party. But then the central parties in this debate have already, and in previous debates, stressed that they have had serious changes in the budget presented. And in isolation, they like to be able to claim this. But the big changes have come from the fact that a tax has been replaced by another tax, a tax has been replaced by another tax. And in the areas we're discussing today, the changes are collected at the base of two and a half percent. The profile of the total State budget and the budget chapters of the Economic and Social Committee is determined. I think there's reason to stress in this debate that the government has had an impact on its profile on the various budgets as far as they're finished here in the Storting, and as far as the financial situation is concerned. Furthermore, there is reason to stress that there is a broad consensus in the Business Committee on the priorities in these areas. I would like to highlight in particular that the majority has now laid the foundation for an investment company with a capital base of NOK 5 billion. There is no particular doubt that there is a need for innovative capital, and there is a need for long-term capital, and therefore what is now happening is the creation of an investment company at the size of this, very happy. So there's a job to do, and that's to get private to go in with its share of this capital, that is. $2,550 million. kr. But if the Norwegian business community wants us to move on in this area, I expect the private companies to set up. It is true that if we don't manage to make a transition in relation to what the oil fund currently stands for, largely investing out and in companies that to some extent compete with our own companies, I believe that the capital side of Norwegian business will get the harder in time to come. For this reason, I would like the Government, and the Minister of Industry in particular, to close down the work that is now to be done before the matter reaches the Stortingen for a new handling. I'm not going to say anything about which model to choose, but I just want to say that a company with some satellites within particularly important areas of Norwegian business, I hope it's seen more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e200	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e203	After all, it must be a victory for the representative Opseth that a basis has now been laid in cooperation with the intermediate parties in order to acquire an investment company. Similar attempts were made in 1997 in the context of the budget at that time, but the intermediate parties said no. One could be tempted to ask what has changed in Norway, which makes you today positive, but was negative at the time. But as I see it in the budget agreement, they have helped to increase taxes and taxes, and I'll mention someone. There has been a dividend tax of 11 p.m., an investment tax on manufacturing buildings, a general increase in VAT, a reduction in the possibility of depreciation for businesses, and all this contributes to an increase in the tax burden. So what you're actually doing is increasing taxes and taxes, and then public authorities have to resort to new means of remedying the damage they themselves are doing. The business itself does not want this construction. The NHO Finn Bergesen says that we want to harmonise industrial policy activities with them in Europe, and even Norwegian Business Associations say that we do not need more bureaucrats to scald and choose with us in such a new investment fund. So my question to the representative Opseth is: why don't you listen to what business and business organizations themselves want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e214	I will not disclaim the responsibility that we increase some taxes and taxes, including for Norwegian business. But in our view, it is a long way to go compared to shaving away important areas of the state budget that are involved and supporting innovation in Norwegian business. Norwegian business goes for a full machine, and I found it reasonable that it provides to the community, participates in a fairer distribution, to bet on school, education, etc. But we also need to listen to business when it comes to the investment company. We know that the NHO has said that they are against this, but if you talk to a single representative of the Norwegian business community, a relatively prominent representative of the Norwegian business community, you can get a very different picture. I'm rather overconfident that when the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party have gone a little by themselves, put a little of the noise behind them, maybe they will also find that it is a reasonable use of public resources to help Norwegian businesses in this way, as the majority in the Stortinget decided. And then I would like to welcome the representative Hedstrøm and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e221	The representative, Opseth, polished a part against the impression of the centre part, etc. have been created – that they have moved on so and so many billions of dollars. In particular, it is not the most fruitful debate in the world, but the reality is now there in numbers. What I wanted to follow up with vis-à-vis the representative Opseth is: Is not the representative Opseth saying that when it comes to a business that competes internationally, one must also see it in relation to taxes and taxes in an international context, and that this refurbishment was actually necessary? That's what the Committee says: ‘The majority have agreed that there is a need for risk capital in the innovative business sector in addition to the seed fund and other public tools that one currently has.’ On that background, there is a plurality, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, that goes for a model in relation to it. But the matter is to be brought back to Stortinget. I'll come back to that part of my post. The representative, Opseth, speaks of this as ‘the company’ in singular form, but I assume that the representative, Opseth, is in agreement with what we have written together, that a different model and different problem setting should be worked out, and that, therefore, it may be necessary to use the plural form in this context. That's these two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e235	I'm not going to take from the representative Lilletun or the centre party the pleasure that they've managed to move billions, but I'm going to insist that a tax is exchanged with another, and that one tax is exchanged with another, and that the profile of the state budget is so firm. That's the way it's going to be when you're going to have cooperation between multiple parties, and then everyone has to be prepared to find solutions. The most important thing for Norwegian business is that one has come up with a common solution, and one, as I said in my main post, has done within the responsible framework. So to the investment company. I finally tried in my post to sketch some sort of organization, where I said that maybe one could have a company with satellites within important areas for us in the future, whether it's now the marine sector, ICT or health. As we've been in the setting, I think it might be a reasonable model, and then it kind of becomes more companies, but under one hat. I am not sure if it is the final and correct model for which the Government will go in, but I have sketched it, and I believe it is well in accordance with the setting, as it stands before. And then we would be on common ground still.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e242	The draft budget is very marked by the fact that the government party takes a strong hand and then wants to sue the pill by giving something back with the other hand. This is by no means unusual from Opseth's point of view. He appears to be far more honest and sincere than I have seen that representatives from the middle parties perform when we discuss the consequences of the state budget, because Opseth acknowledges that the draft budget leads to a tightening of the Norwegian economy compared to tax increases. If we go back to the conditions around the transport sector, we will in many ways have to admire the magical qualities of Opseth in order to find solutions. We've seen how he's been an architect and a father to IT fornebu. A few weeks ago, we saw how Statkorn Holding was fed state-owned economic muscles, which are extremely extreme, to go in and make mainly national but also international purchases, and he is now running a new investment company. He has qualities to bring with him alliance partners – this time mainly Christian People's Party. I have not heard anyone other than representatives from the Investor Forum and Mr. Vigtel, who is a well-known representative from there, who has thought this was a good idea. What is contained in the guidelines for this investment fund is so unpresist that I must therefore ask: if we go back in history, would, for example, Freia, Dyno, Hydro Seafood or Aker Maritime could have been a company in which such an investment fund could have gone into and bought shares in?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e251	I would like to be allowed to make a statement once that a few things in this room need to be more about standing behind the different decisions. As the size is composed, it is not possible for one person and one party to get to large. It must be done in cooperation with others. That's what's happened in this budget and in other cases. Even when it concerns the investment company, it is. So ask the representative Kristiansen if one, if such an investment company had been on the rails, could have scared some of the companies that are now sold out of the country. It's supposed to be gentle to say something about it safely, but I'm aware that in that context, 5 billion kroner would probably have been too small to possibly put up with the competition for the purchase of these companies. But it is now that the Roma were not built in one year, and if one could manage to develop a company that could also take care of that kind of interest, it would not be against me. In some contexts, as you can see in this setting, it can also be a help in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e258	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e261	The Economic and Social Committee has a wide range of responsibilities. When the Committee was established during the previous enlargement period, fisheries and agriculture policies were also integrated and therefore represented something new. The idea was to see the whole of industrial policy in a wider context. Enterprises and innovation should be assessed independently of whether the income came from industrial activities, trade in goods, travel, agriculture, forestry, fishing and fishing. The intention was to shape a position in a comprehensive and comprehensive industrial policy perspective, with objectives, value creation and economic growth. The budget proposals that Stortinget is discussing today are the last in the current enlargement period. Then it might be tempting to see if something particularly closer to a comprehensive industrial policy has come into practice, which really means something. In some smaller areas, we are experiencing changes, and perhaps most of them in those areas where Norway has committed itself through international agreements. But mostly things go the way they did before. Government governance through public instruments remains dominant. Agricultural transfer thinking, regional, food and fisheries aid mostly follow the tracks that have gone up. For this reason, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy's budgetary positions during this large-scale period will hardly be remembered as an example of boldness or reinvigoration. It is only the Progress Party that is largely willing to settle with the old transfer thinking that the country's money bag will solve the problems of industries and districts. We clearly see it through the agricultural transfers and the allocations to the SND. For the Progress Party, it is very important that primary industries and district policies are subject to general industrial policy objectives to a far greater extent than so far, for whatever industry: sustainability over time only has activities that provide business profitability based on products that are priced so that the market demands them. It's not going to come by. It is unfortunate when public authorities play a central role in industrial development through political processes, which can replace the market. We risk encouraging activities that have low profitability, or become unprofitable in the long term, rather than more competitive projects that have greater prerequisites for creating a profitable business. The EU internal market with free movement of goods, services, labour and capital means more equal returns across Europe. This means that the income requirements in the districts also gradually approximate what we see in the rest of the country and in the EEA territory. Thus, in the age of globalisation, market orientation and competitiveness must be at the heart of the creation of winning companies. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that there should be a commitment to general district aid and personalised measures where permitted by the EEA Agreement, the WTO Agreement or other international agreements Norway is obliged to do so. So we need to find more effective solutions, while changing regional policy ambitions. In other words, we must adapt to the conditions of the south of Svinesund. A small country with many small industrial enterprises competing in the large markets outside can not differ significantly from other countries’ framework conditions. It should be one of the main objectives into a new millennium. It is important that the agricultural industry also follows suit. The allocation proposals of the other parties in the field of agriculture mean that huge transfers will continue to flow into a single industry. Developments are worrying. Nearly total protection from the market contributes to a weaker resilience to new needs and conditions. Significant revenues have been obtained through negotiations and lobbying. Therefore, the future adaptation to consumers and new rules of play will be tough. It's raised beyond doubt. The agricultural industry will be exposed to competition in the coming years. It's just questions of time. Therefore, it is important to facilitate the situation. The Progress Party believes that it is not necessary to wait to introduce a new agricultural policy which requires radical changes to the framework conditions for the overall business life of agriculture and rural areas. Support and subsidy schemes for the industry must be reduced so that primary producers in food production can be more closely compared to self-employed workers in other industries and industries exposed to competition in the long term. In parallel with subsidies reductions, other radical changes in the framework conditions for agriculture’s business, including: by liberalising the legislation, by removing all production restrictions and abolishing restrictions on the sale of land and forest property, by repealing concession, housing and compulsory employment provisions and the specific legislation of the agricultural cooperative, which restricts competition. If transfers are reduced in line with the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and efficient, the possibilities of triggering significant growth rates are increased. Deregulation and exposure to competition will be key words if Norwegian agriculture is to have the right of life to a greater extent. It will most likely mean some tough roofs and fewer operators in the industry. Of course, we want transitional arrangements for those who leave the profession as part of an improvement in the efficiency of Norwegian agriculture. The time is also favourable for this, given the considerable need for labour. In fact, there are also some areas in the districts where there is a significant need for free hands. A part of meeting the need for labour can be to free people from the agricultural bureaucracy and some farmers who, after training and retraining, may find jobs in enterprises with a need for labour. So the progress party is trying to pull up the loop and remove some old watering and some sacred cows. We had hoped that the other parties would more fully consider the appropriateness of large transfers to professionals within a single industry, a significant proportion of which are part-time or hobby farmers. It's sad that you give in to press groups. It will not help in the long run to make the Norwegian people believe that special interests are being realised because the authorities want to continue the Norwegian welfare, our rural culture and housing. If we continue to use oil money in this way, it can in the long run affect social protection and our most important goods of well-being. The alternative of the Progress Party means a settlement with this subsidy policy, which has resulted in a misguided agricultural policy. We find no possibility in our alternative budgets to provide a small and ever smaller group of job and income guarantees at the taxpayers' expense, a bill such as: Our companies and those who work there have to pay, which is estimated to be 20 billion kroner per year. years when subsidies, import protection and other aid are included. It has to be very clear: it is not farmers' associations that help humanity. They are the main opponents of a competitive, efficient, rational, profitable and consumer-friendly agricultural industry. Today's situation requires action, says the Progress Party. Finally, I would like to mention proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Party of Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 2-4 on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right and proposals No. 5 and 6 on behalf of the Progress Party, referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e297	Øystein Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e303	The Progress Party will rage overnight on all government grant schemes except a few. SND is going to go away, agriculture is going to get a $4.1 billion cut if I'm adding the right amount. And this is done in the context of the one-year budget. So it has to be implemented during 2001 if the Progress Party gets what they want. In addition, their economic policies mean a breakdown of the local economy. Everything must be left to the free game of cancer. Now, the business community itself wants a public commitment, not least to facilitate infrastructure etc. Then the municipalities are absolutely essential. So Hedstrom says that district policy ambitions need to be adapted to the conditions south of Svinesund, if I understood it correctly. It's quite eye-catching, and I want to ask Hedstrom if he's really thought about the overall impact of the Progress Party's policy. After all, the Progress Party is involved in good formulations in the field of agricultural policy: it wants to maintain its place of residence and take care of agriculture throughout the country, it wants a living cultural landscape, etc. Then he talks about having transitional arrangements for those affected. But where in the budget are the transitional arrangements for those who have to leave agriculture? I don't have the power to find them. My final question is: when will the Progress Party stop throwing blues at people's eyes when it comes to district policy, among other things?? There can be no doubt that their policies will mean a disaster in all district policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e308	There were many and central questions that the representative Breimo asked me, and it will be impossible to go into detail on all these questions. But let me take the general first: the policy that the other parties, perhaps partly with the exception of the Right, have pursued after the war, has led to the greatest movement of people from the districts to the central struts. From 1977 to 1996, only rural policy, which was linked to agriculture – which has a district profile – cost SEK 500 billion when we included the protection aid. In the same period, with the huge transfers, we've had such a great migration. So what we all have to note is that the policies that the other parties have pursued and that they still want to pursue have failed. That's why the Progress Party wants to change this. I saw a look in the nations on December 4th: ‘Norwegian quality for billions’, it says in the headlines, and ‘Norwegian food industry is sniffing on huge export markets after the enslavement has frightened Europe’. Now it is well time that the self-employed in the food production industry are starting to see the possibilities. Now that there's jealousy and people are startled by it, we have opportunities with our clean products to sell out. Well, that's just going to be 1 pst. of Europe's marketable population is willing to pay Norwegian prices, and we'll be able to sell out everything we can produce. For this reason, the Progress Party wants to open this gap so that agriculture can be competitive in the future, not continue with the old melodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e317	For SV, environmental policy is important, and it is actually so fundamental that we bow to the limit of tolerance of both nature and the environment when it turns out that man's activities go over it and it threatens the resource base and our livelihood. The progress party is probably those who have been far from this policy. They must almost be considered illiterate in this area and are not at all interested in listening to the researchers even when they prove quite clearly that here we have at least to be leading was. I have read this setting quite carefully, and to my amazement it is in point 2.2 a unanimous committee that agrees that «all human activity must be subordinate to the limit of tolerance of nature and the environment». I almost crossed the roof, because I wondered, Can this be true? But when you look back a little bit, I realize it's not. This is a saying from several of the parties, and among other things. to a particular extent from the Progress Party. Because when the representative Hedstrøm makes his contribution, he is not talking about adapting Norwegian business to nature and ecology and to the limit of tolerance of nature, he is talking about adapting it to the return requirements of the most greedy international capital available. How can this be related? In addition to that, he concludes his response to the previous line by urging Norwegian agriculture to enter the export market, because we are so clean and so environmentally friendly and so organic and beautiful, as European consumers would like it. I would like the representative Hedstrom to document the way in which the agricultural policy of the Progress Party would promote organic production, pure food and safe food. On the contrary, the agricultural policy of the Progress Party is based on the same principles as industrial agriculture in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e324	It is correct, as the representative Karin Andersen says, that we support the comment she refers to in the setting. Environmental policy is also a major theme. But let me give you an example of what is happening today: we have the so-called environmental taxes, which are very often fiscal taxes, i.e. they go into the big mill. First, these charges are levied and some of them go to agricultural transfers. And agriculture today is actually a big one, if not the biggest one, contaminating water and watercourses. So, first you charge environmental taxes that are fiscal, and then you distribute them to allow the operators to pollute. It's an example of how wrong this might be. And even if we want a more market-based agricultural policy, we naturally want framework requirements on the environment, safety, working environment, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e329	One of the main arguments of agriculture and the environmental movement internationally against free trade has just been the consideration of biological matters, as free trade and increased transport increase the risk of disease development. You increase the infection pressure, and you increase the risk of jealousy and its like. We have a situation today where no one can say for certain that there is no jealousy in Norway. That's the actual, real situation. This is a frightening development. The Progress Party will focus on the export of Norwegian agricultural products to European countries, but the Progress Party must also be sure that Norwegian agriculture will remain free of cow disease. My question to Hedstrøm is therefore: What kind of action will the Progress Party promote to ensure Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian consumers against cow disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e334	It is correct, as the representative Karlstrøm says, that more and more attention has been paid to the problem of infection. Indeed, the EU is at the forefront in some areas and introduces control mechanisms and bans, which the Norwegian Minister of Agriculture is now following up. And I think that's right. In the budgetary settings, the Progress Party has never opposed increased appropriations for the control apparatus, either on these issues or on other internal issues in Norway. I don't think any batch has a final prescription on how to design a control apparatus. Here we must learn from other countries. We also need to get in the way of some areas in Norway, but it does not conflict with the fact that we can export our pure products today and use them in international marketing to sell our products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e346	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e349	The Christian People's Party and Centre take seriously that it is the value creation and jobs of our Norwegian companies that provide the basis for funding our welfare society. The budget presented to the Stortinget early in October of this year was not a budget that created business activity. The centre party also made it clear that the business profile was one of the most important points for us to change. We've made that clear. The result is not good, but it is far better than what was presented by the Government. We can defend the budget we are now receiving. In spite of the fact that taxes and taxes are not on the business committee, tax policy and taxes are, of course, entirely decisive for business. They could be the difference between driving with excess and laying down. They could be what makes companies invest abroad instead of in Norway. The Centre Party had an impact on very large changes in the revenue side of the budget. We're securing a much smaller share of the tax increase in business, which the government is proposing. I'll take two important moments here. cyclical charges have been removed. The annual impact of the Government's proposal was just over 9 billion kroner, and over six of these were the businesses that were going to pay. We got this fee removed completely. We thus avoided increasing the employer's fee by 1.5 pst. We also ensure that the industry is not charged an electricity tax on the production. Instead, industry exempted from the electricity tax on production is required to pay electricity charges in line with others for its normal consumption of power for office supplies and the like. The last thing I want to say about taxes is that we have got multiple numbers to remove the investment tax from 2002. It will make Norway a much more interesting country to invest in. This highly peculiar fee is already paid with so many exceptions that there is hardly anyone who has an overview of everyone. The collection costs are also significant. Now we're getting rid of this fee, which business has been asking for for many years. In this context, I will also mention the sharing model, which has been a recurring theme. We have also received good arrangements in the budget of the nutrition committee. The Institute of Technology will increase its budget by $6 million. kr, and the Guidance Institute in North Norway receives 4 million. kr more than the government proposed. I would like to point out in particular that the Institute of Technology has an important task, and that the resources given to TI are to ensure that businesses with no great ability to pay should also be able to benefit from TI services. A user survey shows that customers are particularly satisfied with the services TI provides. The research message was the theme of Stortinget in ours. I am particularly pleased that the Christian People's Party, through the budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, has contributed to the strengthening of research efforts. This has been achieved through more funding to universities and universities, more funding for nutrition research and more resources for fisheries research. It will require considerable effort to achieve the objective of increasing research efforts in Norway on the OECD average, not least to require a strengthening of R & D efforts in industry. What the Government has proposed is a start in the form of 200 million. kr, and for next year there is a good solution. But we will soon introduce the Hervik selection recommended, i.e. a system of tax incentives for R & D activities in enterprises. The limitation may be around what the Government proposes, with a maximum R & D expenditure of 4 million. kr and a maximum tax deduction of 1 million. kr, and double the limits for cooperation projects with colleges, universities and research institutions. In the budget agreement with the Workers' Party, the Government will return to Stortinget with a case of further follow-up to secure R & D efforts, but I am already notifying you that we will support what is in the Hervik selection at that point. I think it's absolutely necessary if we're going to achieve our goal. I have to say that it is not in any area that we – both the different governments and the Stortinget – have more trouble doing what we are going to do. And I think it's absolutely necessary that this is now taken seriously. It is quite clear that what was in the budget was not at all consistent with what the Storting had put as a premise last year, and, to be honest, what the Stortinge now decides, is also not as good as it should have been. So we still have a job to do here. Travel nutrition is one of the industries we want to engage in in the future. Therefore, it is important that she has good framework conditions. The government submitted a proposal for 12 pst. VAT on, inter alia: overnight stays, while some of the businesses in the tourism industry were subject to full VAT. I am very pleased that we have ensured that the tourism industry will still be exempt from VAT. It gives a signal to those who are in the industry that we want to facilitate further development, and we avoid that a number of activities probably had to be dropped. I would also like to point out that we have the assurance that Alpine installations and pleasure boats should be exempt from VAT. The government proposed full VAT for these activities. It's hard for me to understand. In several parts of the country, such activities are the main cause of the tourism industry. Nightlife in Hemsedal or Gudbrandsdalen would wear without alpine facilities, and in the South the zoo is the main attraction for tourists. It is clear that VAT on these activities would exacerbate the conditions for the entire tourism industry in these regions. Through the budget agreement, we also have a little more resources for just travel measures. There is a slight increase in efforts in the marketing of Norway as a tourist destination. One of the major issues in this budget is the proposal to establish a private and state investment company. It's not like, as some say, that now the state is going to go into the enterprises on its own. There is a new type of company or company to do it. It has been said in the debate that if the private are not interested in it, it will not be worth anything. It's just like 51 pst. the capital must come from private investors. The projects must be so interesting that they are willing to go in there. Then my Christian People's Party for its part that the premises that are in this setting are a good starting point. Of course, I expect the government to do a thorough job on this. I'm not going to give myself to read from the settings now, but it's an exciting construction we can get here. It's not that this is a strange thing. I can see that one of the countries that have been the most closed when it comes to IT is Israel. It's the biggest IT bet going on there, except Silicon Valley. And what's the model there? If private is willing to go in with 60 pst. of the investments, the country enters by 40 pst. as a responsible loan, i.e. a model similar to this one. This is not a red tape. There's another way to raise risk capital. For this reason, the Christian People's Party is confident about what is in the setting of that company. I am also pleased that the majority have agreed that the reimbursement scheme for seafarers should continue as at present, until the Stortinget gets a comprehensive review. It was important to maintain consternation and stability. Randi Karlstrøm, the second member of the Business Committee of the Christian People's Party, will be involved in important areas within the Ministry of Agriculture. At the end, I'll tell you a little bit about marine nutrients. It is tragic that recently it has been revealed that there is a lot of fraud in the fishing industry. It's an important theme. I hope it's possible to discover the real scope of this. If the magnitude is as large as it's claimed from many, it's scary. A joint committee has asked the Government to brief the State on the situation and to propose measures to combat environmental crime, illegal fishing and the translation of fish. I would like to say that what the Minister for Fisheries has done so far seems absolutely credible, but I am looking forward to the Stortinget getting a comprehensive review of this, both on the analysis and on the action page. It must be possible in the marine sector that is at the top of the agenda when we are discussing this sector. It is impressive what both fisheries and aquaculture have so far been able to produce from acreage. There are great possibilities ahead. And for a moment to return to research: I am particularly disappointed that the Government does not have suggestions for permissions to initiate "G.O. Sars’» I think it's possible to find a solution here before Stortinget leaves each other. In view of the comments made in this budget setting, and what other committees are working on now, it should be possible to get it started. I believe that the review that should be will only lead to a loss of time, and that the money will still be added to an increase in contract prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e382	In the budget setting, the center with a wide pen writes about the growth of the stock of seals and whales. For several species, especially seals in the East and West, they now believe that the populations have become too large, and that is true. Furthermore, the Centre notes that these marine mammals reduce the potential exclusion of traditional fisheries. That is also very correct. The same central coalition says that sales and whales are a resource that needs to be exploited much better, and that this can provide value creation along the coast. Then it's a little tempting to ask if this means that the Christian People's Party and the rest of the centre will support the Document No of the Progress Party. Eight proposals, in which we ask the Government to abolish Norway's self-imposed export ban on wavy products, which are now under consideration in the Committee. Can we also assume that Lilletun on behalf of the same parties wants to grant more money to self-afraid? In that case, how much, for it seems unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e388	The representative Knudsen pointed out quite correctly that there is agreement between some of the premises he makes in relation to these marine mammals and what is in the center of his remark. In isolation, it is clear that these are resources that should be captured within the framework of the research for stock assessment, processing and exploitation in the best possible way. But it is also necessary to see this in an international context. If the lifting of this ban would create countermeasures in relation to the large industry of fisheries and aquaculture and the enormous exports of industry, the price would be very high. Therefore, we do not want to vote in favour of the proposal made by the Progress Party without knowing the negotiating cards with which it has its Government, and the negotiations that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e393	The President regrets that she has cut down the speaking time for the lines to one minute to both the representative and the responder. I hope I can be excused.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e396	During the financial debate, the leader of the Christian People's Party, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, made it one of his main points to claim that the Right stands for unsocial attitudes on the issue of sick pay and sick pay. She went so far as to express that it was difficult to relate to the Right Party with its position on these questions. Lilletun talked a lot about the situation of Norwegian alpine plants and was far within the zoo in Kristiansand. But he didn't say anything about the strange giant problem that goes on the huge sick pay payments that will now pass more than 50 billion kroner per. in the case of the Norwegian State and for the Norwegian industry. The increase in the state's hand alone will from this year to next year amount to 5 billion kroner in extra payments. The total problem of sick leave, which has had a strange increase in the last few years, today represents more than 200,000 annual works. In fact, the right of these questions is for one day of withdrawal plus half of the pay the next two days, and then the pay off of 90 pst. wages and salaries. The Christian People's Party has two full karendays in its major election program, then 90 pst. of full wages and salaries. This is more or less identical to the Right proposal, except for those many who have a sick leave of two days. These are more brutally affected by the Christian People's Party's proposals. My question to Lilletun is: does he share his party leader's position on the Right in her statement on the Right Policy in this area? Or is it the case that the Christian People's Party has sidelined its major election program for this important issue for the Norwegian state and for the Norwegian business community?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e403	I don't think I want to spend any particular time depicting the cold level of Right's policy. But I'm serious about what the representative of Kristiansen said, that it increases sick leave is a problem for both those who are in debt and for society. It deprives us of freedom of action. Of course, the announcement of the Christian People's Party's program is quite correct. What happened in the meantime, though, is that we've downloaded a wide-ranging selection to try to reach a consensus. Now it is quite long enough since the Right has been in the vicinity of the government offices, but I would still believe that if they think about it, they have a certain understanding that if you have seen a process in which the parties are heavily involved, do a small grip while that process is going on, before following what that process has resulted in. For its part, the Christian People's Party is ready to follow up its exciting and constructive proposals, where both parties – both employers and employees – must give, where we primarily stop the growth and hence will eventually also have a decline. It is necessary that a number of times actually take a political position that goes into an outline of what it is possible to get into, and not that things don't change, as in this case. I should have liked the right-hand side to have chosen the same angle of incidence. Then there could be a pressure to complete the Sandman selection's good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e414	Lilletun spent a lot of his time talking about how important research is, and that we haven't achieved the goals that have been agreed on in research. I asked a question about the same to Morten Lund of the Center Party, and was told that it was not so easy to reach in negotiations. But I have a little bit of trouble understanding why you can't achieve in negotiations between parties that actually agree. Everyone agrees. Those who were not in this agreement have also agreed. It makes me think that this area might not have the first priority anyway, and it's very serious. It is serious for Norway that we rely on this in research efforts, because it is the one who is going to develop the products and the business we are going to live on in the future. That's why I could imagine hearing a little better explanation than what we've been given now, about why you didn't get to this. So there's been very little talk about fish today, and it surprises me a little, because the fisheries are of the really big, important and forward-looking food routes we have in the country. It may be special that there is a lady from Hedmark who is going to put such great emphasis on it, but so it is. The Christian People's Party wants to have a high environmental profile and has joined the stance in key areas in terms of fish and quota withdrawals. But then I have to ask the representative Lilletun whether he is not aware that the quotas that have been taken up to now have actually been greater than the recommendations of the researchers, and that in addition to it, black fishing has been managed. And then I have to ask if the Christian People's Party is prepared to vote for the SV's proposal today that future fishing quotas should be set based on the recommendations of the researchers, the sentence – that there should be no longer any doubt about it, for this cannot continue any longer. This is too important to be destroyed by overfishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e425	To take the last one first, I actually put a lot of emphasis on what the fisheries and the marine sector actually meant. When it comes to setting quotas, it is ideally good to vote in favour of the SV proposal and the SV representative, Karin Andersen. But what could the consequences of that be? If one can't come to an agreement with Russia about these quotas, and we unilaterally set this quota, the consequences are likely to be a segregated quantity higher than what actually is the set quota. Here again, this is with real policy versus a principle, in which I agree with Andersen's representative. Therefore, I doubt that we can vote in favour of the proposal, but would like to make it as possible for us to get the most advice in the negotiations to be able to do so. So it turns out that what might be the biggest threat is not that we haven't managed to hit the right quantity, but the joke that's lying here. It has to be included in this context. So let's do research. Yes, I don't think anything at all has ever strengthened universities, colleges and research as much as this time. At the same time, I believe that the deal which has been in the Grand Duchy when it comes to research and development has never been adequately reflected in specific budgetary decisions. There I think we should have some audacity someone left. But I was more optimistic after we had dealt with the research message, than after the government gave its results both in the revised last year and now in the budget. At the same time, we have not managed to bring it far enough. We have to do even better next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e432	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e435	The tax increase of more than NOK 12 billion proposed by the Stoltenberg government, to which the centre parties have joined, actually lacks a parallel in Norwegian history. Opseth struck a reality that I think was quite right, where he said that although there had been some changes, one tax was replaced by another, and one tax was replaced by another. By attacking the value creation of small and large enterprises across the country, the Government itself undermines the basis for all private and public welfare. Instead of increasing labour supply and facilitating industrial development, tax proposals reduce the willingness to provide, invest and innovation in Norwegian business. At the end of the seventh year, tax increases affect each individual through higher prices, reduced wage growth and unsafe jobs. Combining this with measures to prevent the modernisation and outsourcing of the public sector means a serious setback for the necessary renewal of the Norwegian industry and society. The sum is a growth-killing and valueless budget. Not in one area alone does the government show Stolten-berg solutions to the many challenges facing society. I am disappointed that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties maintains the dramatic increase in the tax and tax level of a total of NOK 12 billion. There is one point of light, and that is that the government's proposed cyclical tax is not adopted. Unfortunately, a different business cycle tax will be introduced on investment in construction, and all enterprises will be subject to a strong tax tightening, among other things. due to reduced depreciation rates. Large parts of business are also affected by an increase in electricity and fuel oil taxes. The Workers' Party has also received an allowance for double taxation on dividends on shares. There is therefore no doubt that enterprises throughout the country are severely affected by the agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party. The letters of protest have not been omitted. The message is that the strong tax increases together with the plans to change the whole corporate tax system from 2002 weaken the competitiveness of businesses and make predictability zero. The fact that Norway is an attractive country for start-up and industrial investment is of the utmost importance to the right. However, with the proposed tax increases, Norway will enter into competition with Sweden to have the highest tax burden in Western Europe on shares and investments in business. The difference is that, like other European governments, the Swedish social-democratic government is reducing taxes, while the government of Stoltenberg is going the opposite way. As a result, ideas and innovation projects will be more widely realised in other countries. Right-wingers want to remove the regulations that make it more difficult for businesses and their own businesses to operate in Norway than in other countries. At the same time, it has to be easier and more attractive to work. One of the main challenges facing industry and the Norwegian economy is to increase access to labour. Despite the fact that there are very many areas where there is a shortage of labour, the Government does not promote any proposals for more people to work. The rules on voluntary overtime and temporary employment are examples of this. In the budget position of the Liaison Committee, one of the important points mentioned earlier in the debate is the creation of a State Investment Fund. What I've been wondering about is attitudes to the different parties in the committee and so far as the conciliation is concerned, is the changed attitude that I register with two of the centre parties. When Stortinget dealt with the announcement of ownership, there were quite clear boundaries between what I would call the bourgeois parties, and the Workers' Party. What has de facto happened since we dealt with the ownership message? There has been a change of government, which has led to the replacement of three of the four members of the Business Committee of the Centre Parties. The fourth, which is left, the Left's representative, is now leaving the majority of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Workers' Party. I am surprised at what has happened in this area, and like other speakers, I would like to congratulate Mr Opseth, who used the striking wording that «Rome was not built in one year». His ambition to have a fund of DKK 100 billion, I guess I'm standing by, and the germ is set for this. We know what has been the campaign for Opseth in these areas, we can read that in settings whether it's about IT Fornebu, Statkorn or what it might be. One of the industries that must be expected to play a major role in Norway in the future is fishing. It's the industry of opportunity. Priority research in the field of marine species should be continued – I want to say reinforced. I'm thinking about both aquaculture and traditional fishing. But I think there have been some dark clouds in the sky lately as regards claims of illegal fishing and the translation of fish. Many of the claims that have been served through the media over the past few weeks are in themselves so serious that it should call on the absolute attention of the Council of State to follow-up action. With action in this context, I am thinking of investigating both what has happened and what is happening today. I understand that there has been a meeting with relevant industry organisations to confirm, if necessary, the claims that have been made. Very serious accusations have been made, and that actually happens every day. In yesterday's Dagbladet, a trawler said that: ‘On my last trawl... more than 50 per cent of the catch was dumped’. We have seen allegations about cod that have been delivered as a seal. We've heard of snorers who in shelter of the night darkness are out and timbering fish because they have too many tons, and they're waiting for the control station the next morning. We have seen allegations of extensive cooperation between boats to avoid the Coast Guard. We've seen power disconnects to avoid satellite tracking, as the Storting decided not long ago, sorting deadlines blocked, etc. The list of claims made by people in the industry can be made several times longer. It has been reported in the media that the Council of State was shocked. I see that the Council of State has come after that shock, and that's good. On the other hand, the chairman of the Fischbootredens Bundesförbund told Dagbladet yesterday that: ‘Our boats are the most law-abiding in Fisheries-Norway’. The worst thing is whether both of these statements are correct, that they're far-reaching cheating, while the trawlers say, "We're the most law-abiding." That's really bad. However, I do not have a basis for saying that, but Norway cannot live with a state like this. We must take note that we must maintain a degree of credibility, then it must be acted upon. It must be acted on quickly, and it must be acted on resolutely. And in the setting we are dealing with today, the Right has a comment, which has also been repeated as a unanimous comitology comment: ‘The Committee asks the Government to brief the Government on the situation’. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary for the Minister of Fisheries to come to Stortinget as soon as possible to inform us about this matter. If the claims are correct, which I obviously should not decide, it is high time that all the alarm clocks started to ring. In the interests of fishermen and the fishing industry as well as the coastal population in general, it is time for forward-looking action. On the other hand, an overview of what has actually happened should be provided. Firstly, this has to do with the management of marine resources. We cannot live with a situation where it is actually likely that much more is being fished than the marine scientists recommend, even though the marine scientists are actually also putting in a not insignificant tangle for so-called 'unregistered fishing' when we are in international negotiations. In this country, we have previously fished down strains that have taken decades to rebuild, and it is the responsibility of the Council of State to put in place the necessary measures to avoid getting close to such a situation. Secondly, it has to do with Norway’s reputation, as a credible manager of common resources that we have with other countries. If we are to be a first country in terms of managing sustainable marine resources, we must have order in our own house. And it's actually with resentment I have to say that I don't feel sure that it's the condition per. today. That is why I would like the Minister for Fisheries from this chair today to confirm that he will come to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a statement to inform us of the situation in the broadest sense. Whether the Storting should take further initiatives in this matter will be assessed by the Right after such a possible explanation. The alternatives that Stortinget has to offer, I assume the Council of State is familiar with. I also mention the proposals that are in the setting and that are distributed on the tables.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e480	The representative Gabrielsen has taken up the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e485	Right-wing support for the subsidiary agricultural agreement this year. Half a year later, in next year’s budget, they cut over DKK 1.5 billion overnight. Like the Progress Party, the Right agrees with all the good formulations on the goal of Norwegian agriculture – it should help to ensure housing patterns, viable agriculture across the country, viable rural areas, beautiful cultural landscapes, etc. I have noticed in particular that the Right will in some way share the income base for the farmers. The State is required to pay for collective benefits, so-called ‘joint goods’, such as: maintenance of cultural landscapes. Then the food production itself is to be covered through the market. I want to ask Gabrielsen: how does he imagine that this system will be implemented in practice? Would the Right official employees have gardeners who hold the ground in claim where food production does not yield enough income? How much is the Right willing to spend on the State budget of the so-called ‘joint goods’? Personally, I'm afraid that right here will get the state budget's most used balancing post. In my view, there is only one realistic solution. It is that the state helps to make food production so profitable and agriculture so attractive that we get the ‘common good’ as a result of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e492	Norwegian agricultural policy and Norwegian agriculture as a whole are now changing. Typical is the following: the areas cultivated are constant, while the number of annual crops in agriculture is declining. In the year 1800 all farmers – minus 1,000 officials – were in 1900 there were 500,000, after the war 350,000, and now there are 70,000 farmers. In 15 years' time it will be that when we define the agricultural message to which the Workers' Party joined, after it was submitted by the Bondevik Government, the result will be 30,000-35,000 farmers. There's a 2 500 per take-off. years, and no one in this room has called for a different policy — none. So to the common good. Well, that's how agriculture produces something in addition to liters and kilograms, and it's common goods, which the representative was in, among other things. the cultural landscape. But it's quite obvious that overfocusing on the value of keeping a cultural landscape exactly as it is today is no reason. And the second, in relation to housing: in some municipalities, agriculture is crucial as a premise for people to live there. In many other municipalities, it is completely secondary. It was important, but it's not anymore. Nevertheless, we continue with a level of support as if nothing had happened, but we know that it has. When we know that the direct and indirect support measures for Norwegian agriculture correspond to the value of all wild fish and all farmed fish in this country, I think it is time for one to look at some corrections at least. The right makes an adjustment of 6-7 pst. in relation to the current level of aid and cut out support for what is most hobbyous. When people choose to have 10 to 15 sheep walking instead of using lawn mowers, there is no reason to maintain any particular involvement of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e502	The representative Gabrielsen was in his main post concerned with the unfortunateness of the budgetary agreement, which meant increased taxes and charges for individuals, businesses and organisations, and that of course the Progress Party agrees with the heart. But as far as I have seen in the budget setting, the Right is also involved in increasing some charges, and it is a bit breaking with the picture Right wants to draw itself as a tax and tax light party. This applies to the toaliser charge. When we dealt with the agricultural message in ours, it was a unanimous committee that said it was important that Norsk Rikstototo be competitive, because it stimulated the horse sport, breeding and support for the horse centres. However, as far as I can see from the setting, the Right supports the increase in fees that the Government has posted, and many in the Right are amazed. Isn't there a right-hand side of a tax lighter in this area? How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e509	As most people want to know, the threshold is not high to contact Gabrielsen over neither telephone nor letter nor e-mail – either above the doorstep. But the astonishment that Hedstrom has registered with some Right-People has not yet arrived. However, it was interesting to be made aware that there was some kind of charge somewhere where we have actually supported the increase of the Government. Whether it depends on an incurrency or a deliberate act, I can't actually stand here and now say. But in areas where there is an increase in important taxes and taxes, we have made conscious choices. Now, in fact, we have put forward an alternative – I would say responsible – budget, which involves a total tax relief of SEK 8.1 billion, and it consists of zeroing out most of the harmful that is in the agreement that we have already agreed in the Stortinget. I can't exactly say that I feel that the toalisator fee is absolutely crucial for the Norwegian business environment and the future. Those who play on a horse get to play, and those who play on other instruments get to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e514	When the representative Gabrielsen mentions this with an investment company – and the same has happened earlier today, when the representative Ivar Kristiansen mentioned it – it is referred to as a state company. So it's 51 pst. of the capital of that company which must be private. Is it a proper way, according to the representative Gabrielsen, to describe things in saying that what has 49 pst. State ownership, state government? I'm going to think that a multiple of private people would say that one should at least use both of these things. In addition, I would like to remind the representative Gabrielsen that the Right has reasonable positive attitudes when it comes to commercialisation associated with research. He reads the setting here, he'll see that this is kind of an approach to make sure that research results can actually be more commercialized. As we know, Torger Reve, headmaster at BI, has said that we're world champions of prototypes, but we can't commercialize them. So here's what we're trying to do. Now there were also wanted people who supported this. Torger Reve, who is actually the principal of one of the country's largest educational institutions within the economy, has said that this is a good idea, not least based on the model that is now leading, and that one should come back to the Stortinget. So a very simple question in the end: is it so that Gabrielsen's representative had just as much as he had seen that the government's original proposal had been agreed, as it is now in the agreement? I could probably give him some evidence that there aren't very many people in the business that think so, but it seemed like Gabrielsen's representative meant it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e527	For this purpose, the semi-state investment company. I agree with Lilletun that it would be the right name; but dear children have many names, and if one calls it one or the other, is not really crucial. What I want to point out is the change in attitude that has been in the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – and it is undeniable – that one can read out of the settings we have had regarding state ownership in Norwegian business. The parallel of Israel, which Lilletun made in his speech, is of great interest, but it does not strengthen his position, nor on the contrary. They have chosen not to go into the owner's side, just to not get all of these combinations of roles. That's some of the things that are the very king's idea of Opseth. It sees one if one reads the setting that Opseth was the leader of, and was investigated by the Workers' Party. It's a classic example of how to wear three hats at the same time. We know how it has been handled in the past, and there is reason to assume that one might have that as a goal in this case as well. So it's something that's supported this. It is clear that there are some people who support this, not least those who see the opportunity to manage or participate in these investments. The Norwegian Investor Forum, which we had consulted in the committee, saw a relatively central task of having a finger on the steering wheel in relation to this. What is promised and not promised, I don't know, but one will always find someone who supports this. The fact that one finds industry leaders in semi-state companies who think this is a good idea, and who have been involved in much of this, is not unnatural either. They have a career to attend to. In the case of the tax arrangements adopted in the agreement, it has a slightly different device from the original one. In total, it's equal to 12 billion more in taxes and taxes. It represents a slightly greater burden on employees than on business, so from the point of view of business, it will of course be positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e538	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e541	First, I want to address the SV's proposal, which is distributed. The main line of industrial policy is increased focus on research and education, more risk capital, a good local economy and good district policy. We want to convert from a black oil-dependent economy to a green knowledge-friendly economy. When I look at the general comments of the Committee – even unanimous – they contain approaches to many policy areas that are fully in line with the SV's policy. However, I wonder whether the Committee has intended this to be implemented, because there is no link between the instruments to be used and the objectives to be stated, see. what has been said about research before today. And when the Progress Party and the Right in general remarks are on a unanimous tribute to the government's economic policy and governance, there is reason for suspicion, cf. what has been said in the debate earlier today. In the real world, it is not that the majority will rule with nature's limit of tolerance as the main guide. In reality, the international capital giants, the Gutteklubben Grei, the trawler and food trade chief priests are allowed to govern development, regardless of beautiful promises about ecological and environmental objectives. Now one of the highest of them has also occupied one of the country’s pulpits – I have seen – to warn against the culture of greed. Longings between life and learning are hardly possible. SV therefore supports proposals that are fully in line with the general comments. We believe that this is necessary in order for these instruments to be put in place now. We do it because there should be no doubt that this has been the Stortinget's intention, and that this has the Government's back coverage to implement. So to fish: Fisheries are one of the most important areas we have, and SV is proposing both in terms of fraud, in terms of bringing the fleet together with the resource base it has, and not least in terms of how to set the quotas. The Committee makes a comment: «The Committee notes that with the quotas set, it will be possible to build up the gypsum stock for Norwegian-Arctic cod to the recommended 500 000 tonnes by the end of 2003.» It'll be a pious wish. I assume that the Committee is aware that the agreement is based on a take-off of 130 000 tonnes above the recommendations of the researchers, and that in a three-year agreement, and that no account has been taken of black fishing, a fish that has been calculated by the Marine Research Institute at 100 000 tonnes per year. Is this responsible resource management? It is at least not to be the leader was, take a maritime responsibility and not let himself be pushed on the home track to go beyond the limits of nature's tolerances. There is a need for a proposal on this point: Do you think that the basis should be based on the recommendations of the researchers, or do you not think so? Therefore SV promotes such a proposal. We also have – not today, but in a Document No. Previous 8-proposals – proposed measures to combat bullying and improve the protection of infectious diseases. In addition, today we are promoting proposals to improve the monitoring apparatus of the authorities. Unfortunately, Norway is no longer the best in terms of animal welfare and additives. But we should be. Nothing is happening here until the EU explodes. Only then will we, if the EU does it, sail if it's right. Norwegian agriculture is not the best in terms of purity and safety. It's going to be that. Unfortunately, the trust in Norwegian food is shocking. In organic farming, sprays, fertilizers and genetic modification of their contents are not permitted. Nevertheless, there's a widespread scepticism about this, and you get so little funds that there's no chance of reaching the goal of 10 pst. of the area cultivated for organic farming, as set by the Stortinget. That is why we have made proposals today. The authorities continue to allow the research community to use resources for genetic research rather than highlighting important market barriers to healthy Norwegian food or developing knowledge of food-health relationships. Will Norway continue to be an organic u-country? Or will Norway, as a future knowledge nation after the oil age, have a food production that can compete in terms of environment and quality? Then we need not only to set our goals, but also to provide us with the means to implement the policy we say we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e570	In recent years, all parties have spoken extensively about the need for innovation in Norwegian business and how to fill a larger value creation with new businesses and new jobs. Making Norway an attractive country for business and investment has been the review melody. Obviously, man's memory is short. This autumn, prominent representatives of the Government Party have said that it is possible to shift labour from competitive business to the public sector. Important district industries, such as travel life, were suggested hard hit, some actually talked about strupe roofs. Companies that did not tolerate VAT and short-term taxes could be perceived as not having the right to life. The budget for basic research and higher education was the worst in many years despite cross-political agreement on increased efforts in this area to ensure future value creation. It has therefore been a major and demanding effort to reach a 2001 budget agreement that provides a good budget for value creation and job security. I noticed that the Labour Party in the Committee setting is concerned about how small amounts have been transferred to the Ministry of Industry's budget. If such sums are so important, it should be considered that, as far as the tax side of the budget is concerned, which is, after all, the most important element of an overall industrial policy, the changes are record high. Over DKK 20 billion has been transferred, mainly to prevent harmful and dramatic proposals from the Workers' Party on, among others. an additional employer’s fee of 1,5 p.p., travel VAT, a tightening of the divisional model and a tightening of the property tax. I would like to mention in particular two important breakthroughs for the Left. One is the removal of the investment tax from 2002, which facilitates the business environment of about 200 000 people. DKK 6.5 billion. The investment fee is fragmented, randomly affected and incurs significant collection costs for the public. Removing the investment tax will also help to simplify the form field. The second is the agreement in the budget agreement that the sharing model, which penalises active owners in its own holding, should be removed. It will provide a long-awaited justice between the everyday wearers of the small businesses and those who live their lives in the boardrooms. In the case of the Workers' Party's proposals for State investment companies, a significantly improved version appears to have a majority. In the otherwise good cooperation in the center, however, the Left team separates with the Center Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. Opening up increased government purchases in private enterprises on the basis of highly unclear and discriminating criteria is to go in the wrong direction and threaten the private diversity of ownership in Norwegian enterprises. The left can't be on it. It is especially gratifying for the Left that the Centre has been given a boost for the Norway profiling of travel abroad. Travel is a key industry in the districts and now deserves long-term investment and stable framework conditions. The left gives a clear signal about our belief in the potential of Norway for the fastest growing industry in the world. Furthermore, it is important that the budget again gives signals that the coast as a workplace is being taken seriously. The return of funds to the rescue company, as well as the continuation of work on digital charting at sea, are important safety signals to provide to Coastal Norway. I am also pleased that the reimbursement system for seafarers continues as it is today. Large ferry costs are cost-effective for a value-creating business that has almost unnaturally dressed itself on the shoreline. It is gratifying that the budget agreement allocates 80 million. kr for the reduction of ferry tariffs. If it had been up to the Left alone, the funds in their entirety would have been used to reduce the cost of business vacations. The result available does not go that far, but is nevertheless very positive and shows a future direction. The left is very pleased that the Government's proposal for an auctioning system for breeding concessions, which would in practice have led to only the most wealthy having reached, has been rejected in cash by the Stortinget. However, it is disappointing that the Government does not follow up the majority’s decision in the context of the biggest notification of prospects for the development of the Norwegian fishing industry with regard to the tax disposal scheme for the renewal of the fishing fleet. I would like to inform you that the Left will not put the matter on the shelf even if the Workers' Party has obviously done so. A fishing fleet with an average age of 20 to 30 years is not good enough for the Norwegian fishing nation, and the country should be involved and speeding up a process of substitution through grants and conditioning schemes. Unfortunately, we haven't found room for this in the budget, but a modern fleet is also bound to do, it has to do with recruitment, and it has to do with better use of by-products, which in the future will provide a potential in the billions class. A historic shift towards the budget has led to a good budget for the innovative, knowledge-based and district-oriented working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e596	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e599	First, I want to pay tribute to Kongshaug and the Left for having managed to have the same position for both one and two years with regard to this semi-state investment company, and that in concrete action they do what they said in connection with the nutrition notification when we dealt with it one year ago. They shall have all the credit for that. In the budget agreement that has been concluded, and which Kongshaug was in, it has moved 20 billion kroner back and forth – I underline back and forth – for the sum is the same as that which existed from the Stoltenberg government: approx. NOK 12 billion in increased taxes and taxes. It is not the case that the economic cost has been abolished. It has been phased out on labour costs, but then it has been introduced into industry. It has been compensated for by lower depreciation rates, tightening the sharing model, etc. So this is kind of a zero-sum game, as it looks. This also applies to VAT, which, as far as I can see, has only been requested by the Norwegian Bond Team – it is not exactly the Left that should congratulate here, but to a greater extent the Senterpartiet. Then it's a flagship that's being pulled forward, and that's the investment fee. I think it makes a lot of sense to get a liquidation of this relatively strange affair as an investment fee, not least for those of us who have looted accounts – and what is inside and what is outside of it, I am not going to get into it. But what is my question — to the extent that the Left, and to the extent that the Centre, is thinking of continuing the logic of this agreement, of increasing some taxes and taxes in order to liquidate others — is: What taxes and taxes are intended to be increased by the liquidation of the investment tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e608	I thank you for your good words and respect for the fact that we have held a steady course in connection with the state investment company – the representative Gabrielsen had probably not expected anything else from us in that regard either. It is clear that through the budgetary agreement that has now taken place between the Labour Party and the Centre, the Left has had a significant impact on important issues, for the benefit of the business community in general and the industry in the districts in particular. There is reason to point out that the 2002 investment tax was abolished as a matter on which the Left stood firm and was implemented. There is one thing right-wing voters have always dreamed of getting through, but the Left in practice has made it clear in the Stortinget. And we're proud of that. Similarly, the divisional model of the tax system — which I was in the context of my contribution — which penalises active owners in their own enterprise will be discontinued from 2002. So I think that the Left, with its strength on the Stortinget, has got incredibly much through this budgetary agreement. With regard to the withdrawal of the investment levy, which is due from 2002, and how it is to be compensated, it may not be right to address it from this pulpit here and now. However, it is of course a matter for the Government to come back with in future cases and in the context of the 2002 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e625	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e628	If we are to pursue a future-oriented industrial policy – and we are to – it is necessary to understand the changes that are taking place in society. At the centre is the understanding of the relationship between technological change and the emergence of the new economy, which in turn means that industries – old and new – must be actively involved in the new technology. Furthermore, it is important to understand what these technological and economic changes mean for those framework conditions that are partly targeted at a different time but still living in the best of order and that have strong defenders. It is also important to be able to assess the choice of new solutions that allow us to capture the industries and their new needs, whether for the new industries or for the established industries. An example of established schemes has been the yard aid, which is now flattened out. Some will also mention the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, while less emphasis has been placed on stimulating perhaps the same industries to tackle changes and transitions in order to cope with increasingly aggressive international competition. The same applies to framework conditions for new industries, which require a new understanding, policy and organisation at different levels, but which are now partly met by instruments aimed at a different time. In this way, we can safely say that we're at a crossroads where we actually have to do more things at the same time. One of the things that happens is that the industrial society's contradictions between work and capital evolve in a different way than before. At the same time, there appears to be major differences in society in several areas — ‘the winner takes it all’. Successful people earn a lot of money because lack of skills makes employers willing to pay a lot to get this workforce. Another area is therefore education and competence. The demands of tearing technological development can mean increasing differences in society. Regionally, too, differences are growing, for example: removal of skilled labour from North Norway. Those with relevant training apply to competent professional environments. This is not something we can just decide away from. These challenges may seem great and are particularly demanding for a society where the idea of equality is stronger than in most other countries. At the same time, we have greater prerequisites than most other countries to carry out the steps that can combine innovation and value creation with a recognition that everyone needs to be helped into the new economy. Everyone must be involved, including the traditional industries must compete for skills. Our traditions of social unity can also be used as a competitive advantage. But all of this requires insight into the rules of the game that will shape the new economy. In the formulation of a forward-looking industrial policy, therefore, there are two questions that need to be answered at the same time: how to develop an industrial policy that contributes to new value creation to an extent that reduces dependence on oil revenues and ensures the welfare of the country in the long term? How do you ensure that this process takes place without large sections of society remaining outside but can take advantage of the opportunities created by the changes? Keywords will be: we need to reorganise many institutions in society, and thus the instruments. The state will have to have a new role, where the interaction between state and private will be important. Actions for innovation and innovation as a very important part of business policy, competence-building, development of knowledge and competences environments based on very important business clusters for our country will have to be central. A lot of this is painful, because we can't do more of everything, but we have to make choices to help with the conversions. As a result of the development we are in, the state will also change its roles. We have experienced this with the old Telecom, now Telenor, we see the challenges for the NRK, which also have to deal with market competition, like new alliances, we see it with the Post Office, where e-mail, e-commerce and other electronic solutions mean open international competition. The result is that the role that the state can and should play is changing. The requirements for state owners to demonstrate commercial considerations and to have commercial competence imply that the role of the State in many areas is more similar to that of the private owner. Although the State also has other instruments, such as: The acquisition law, standard requirements and quality assurance practices show that commercial competitive conditions are increasingly functioning because we are part of open international and intense competition. As the government sees it, there will be contexts where the state can also be a better owner than private because there are also important societal reasons to take, or that there may be particular long-term conditions that play. The interaction between state and private will then be important. The need for the state does not disappear, but the role becomes a different one. Let us see, for example: to Japan, we see that governments, through government funds, are involved in building strong innovation environments. We also see many other places – in the United States, in Singapore and – as the representative Lilletun rightly said – in Israel. The organisation of the seed funds, the start-up funds and now investment companies can be our examples of this. In the case of investment companies, all experience internationally and nationally shows that there are two key factors for success. One is that the company has a certain size and that it has a limited industry focus — a certain size because of its ability to risk, but also to gain a competent leadership. Norway is in a bad position in terms of innovation and knowledge-based business, but we have great opportunities. We have a very capitalist state, we have a well-educated population, we have a population that is advanced users of new technology, and we have a high level of competence in important business clusters and good cooperation relations in our working life. Thus, the most important instruments of industrial policy will be innovation and competence. This competition is also global. People move to where the conditions are best, where the professional environments are enriching and where it is possible to ensure that, for example. both parents have the ability to realize themselves. It is therefore increasingly true that during the job interview it is actually the jobseeker who interviews the employer, because he has to answer what he and the company are willing to do to get the workforce and keep it. Another competitive advantage Norway should exploit is that we are major users of high-tech products and solutions. Here, the broadband action plan will be central to stimulating more common users to invest in new technologies both at home and at work, so that we can continue to be an active test country, but even more ambitious: an active development area also for foreign and global businesses. Modernisation of the public sector is also central here. It comes partly because of people's needs for better, wider and more adapted services, but also as a result of the new technologies. This development will also provide the basis for new business activities. A policy for the next few years must be based on the fundamental changes that society is undergoing as a result of the technological revolution and globalisation of the economy. We have to clear up space for the new industries and the established clusters, the clusters, where we're good from before. It must be done through development of competences and knowledge environments, by renewing the public sector, but also by exploiting national capital support. I believe that the position on the table today for discussion provides a very good basis for a broad majority around these lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e675	I would like, on behalf of the Progress Party, to address the issue of the international marketing of Norway as a tourist country to the Council of States. I know that the Council of State has been confronted with that question a number of times, because in the last six months, the Government has reduced the appropriations twice. Developments are worrying because Norwegian tourism in broad segments is in stagnation or loses market share. There are great opportunities here, because we have available resources in Norway. What we're missing are the customers. The tourism industry is important for the districts, it creates many women's jobs, and it is forward-looking. The party of progress is the largest of all the parties in granting funds to the tourism industry, because we don't see it as a selective instrument, but generally, because it works too many industries and businesses across the country. We've spent 200 million on our foreign budget. kr for international marketing, e.g. through TV campaigns. Surveys show that Norway is very little known as a tourist country, and efforts are needed here. I would like to ask the Council of State: what is the reason why the Government has not wanted to give priority to this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e686	The government will follow up on what was in the Committee's position and on which there was broad agreement when discussing the tourism industry in our country. I have several times, also in response to the representative, Kongshaug, that we are prepared to make a promise, also with the organisations and the travel companies. The Tourism Council is now planning an Internet portal, where it will be easier to access the portal and get further instructions on the specific travel objectives and measures. But as I have also said in the past, this does not only apply to the Tourist Council. It is also the Council of Exports, that is, the whole international offensive made by Norway, also through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through our foreign stations. It's a heavy job to build a brand, and here we have a lot to go to be able to gather all these cancers into a more common offensive, so that the image that comes out might be much more unambiguous than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e693	With regard to the introduction of Telenor, the company has used considerable resources to market it both domestically and abroad, and it is natural that when a company of such size is to be introduced, it must be done on a basis which is proportionate to the size of the company. Now it is such that there have been some things going on, and in the newspaper today there is a chronological review of what has been going on for the last two or three days, while drawing was still going on. Expressions are used as being tricked; the brokers have exaggerated an explicit demand, which has led investors to overstep the belief that they would get a percentage of the shares that they really should have, and then it may turn out – to the extent that the newspaper's sources are correct – that that is not the case. My question to the Council of State is based on the fact that the Department has also had a ‘finger in the pie’ in these meetings that have taken place, and we have even seen the gentle glance of the Council of State at pictures along with the elite in Telenor. My question is whether the Council of State is satisfied with the handling that has been done by the mercenaries in the closing phase – then I am talking about the last two or three days – given that what appears in the newspaper today is correct. Does the Council of State understand the frustration that some buyers, especially on the Norwegian side, feel about this, and that some of them already on Monday chose to sell themselves out with significant losses? And finally, can the State Council confirm details that have passed on how much the State/Telenor has lost on the postponement of the stock market introduction due to the dividend tax, as proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e704	To answer the last first, the answer is no. I can't answer whether you've lost or what you've done, because the value that's now on the stock exchange is actually the value that the market gives. And then you could have many speculations about what it had been a month ago, two months ago, a year in the future, etc. When Stortinget has so clearly wanted Telenor to be on the stock exchange, we must also have confidence in the company based on a much longer-term arrangement. It is therefore not possible to respond to all the indications that have come, nor to some of the indications that come now after three days – three days. I have also seen this in the newspaper today. I have no reason to enter into a communication that has been between organisers and Norwegian investors. That's what the actors themselves have to account for, the ones who have been involved just in it. But I'm a little surprised that some people who think they're absolutely competent on the stock exchange, competent to do this, feel a little bad. It doesn't exactly harmonize. From our point of view, we have had a very trusting and very close relationship with the organizers. We have no reason to believe that they are responsible for any bad business practices. In addition to that, we have also brought with us consultants who have been completely independent, from the most competent international finance brokerage offices, and who themselves have not had anything to serve in the course of this transaction, and their advice has been unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e716	The centre party is in favour of having an active state, also as its owner, and an active state that wants something for the benefit of Norway. Of course, we think that with the capital force we have, the state must help. And there's nothing strange, not in any way. What might be a little strange is that there are so many people who are skeptical about the state that owns. We should also designate areas of activity, and we should invest our capital in research in those areas of activity. But also there must be the assumption that there should be values that remain in Norway, and that we then use the capital strength to build on Norway. The centre party is involved and supports the investment fund on that basis. And we fully agree with Mr. Thorbjørn Jagland when he, as Prime Minister, said that we must say no to the bit sales of Norway. At the last national meeting, he said that we must have countermeasures against the company's flames. He also said that it is the non-cancers that have taken over the direction of development in this country, and we need to do something about that. On the grassroots in the farms, people fully agree with this. But then they see that what is said to happen doesn't happen. There's no will behind it. And the most dangerous thing is that one says that one should do one thing, and then one doesn't do anything, like when people from Nycomed Pharma come and say that the department and they've been tricked. There was a plan to move the pharmacy from Oslo to the Øresund area, that plan was there – they said the opposite, that the acquisition was to strengthen the business in Oslo – and it's proven that it was, it had to be, and then the ministry won't do anything about it. So I want to ask if the Council of State Knudsen believes that the state would want the same thing as the owner and as authority, that we need a law, and we need our capital strength to secure national ownership in the areas we want the most to bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e727	I believe that the representative Morten Lund and I fully agree that we must ensure that the value creation takes place from and in Norway, and preferably with Norwegian practitioners. But of course, we also need to be open to foreign investors and owners finding it right to be in Norway. Many of our industrial communities have been built up with foreign capital and owners. But then, in my speech, I showed that some of the instruments that we have used, and of which we may still be strong defenders, do not work as well in this international market as both capital flows across borders and businesses move between countries. Norwegian businesses are also going out – Norwegian Forest, from the area to Morten Lund, is a very good example of going out and swallowing others. The question then is whether there are rigid laws that are right or whether we need to secure tools that stimulate knowledge, through innovation and by using the state – and state funds – as a commercial player in important industries. And it's precisely the investment company and the committee that facilitates, as I experience it, that there may be very specific areas where Norway can take advantage, and that a business idea is created in these areas to stimulate such a development. But otherwise it's very difficult if you haven't been very clear on the legal, to come back later and try to prove something when it's actually not possible. There I refer to the case with Nycomed – you might say, but here it is about being able to prove.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e740	The Council of State said in its speech that it was important to understand the changes and the new economy, and to deal actively with it. In the light of that, it is quite strange that you have moved on to the same timetable in terms of the stock exchange introduction of Telenor, for I am aware that Stortinget has not asked for this to happen right now. Now the Council of State says that they have received clear advice from their advisers on this matter. But is it that the Government has not at all assessed that one should have chosen a time that was more appropriate, not to lose as much in value as one has now done? It's true that we don't know how this goes in the future, but you've initially chosen what seems to be the worst possible time. So to another area that's important to the business community in the districts, and that's the differentiated employer's fee. It is now only provisionally approved until 2003 and the whole scheme will then be re-notification. This has this government and the previous government opposed coming to the Storting to tell about the consequences of, or to prepare. How are we going to deal with this? Are we going to be able to find another regulation, another system, that can maintain the level of support and geographical differentiation? Last night, the Stortinget was not willing to agree to that – the Center Party and SV made a proposal, we drew it, and we'll get back to it. But is it really the way the Minister of State wrote in a letter to the Municipal Committee that this has not yet been looked at by the Government? I think it's pretty scary. The whole point here is that we're going to be totally dependent on the government arguing well for the need for such arrangements, if we're going to be able to keep some of them in the future at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e747	First to Telenor, where SV has a different opinion – you have not wanted Telenor on the stock exchange. But at the same time there is also an SV with a problem: how does the company Telenor capitalize when there is no majority in the Stortinget for it? There is a reality that SV must also take inwards when one is completely negative to make this issue. Then it really boils down to what time it is right. And when it is now suggested that the company would like to have waited, I find it strange that SV is able to look into this glass clock and see that the possibilities half or a year later would be better both for the company's financial situation and for armstrokes, and that the conditions for the IT shares would be better in half or a year. All the advisors we've had – and the government – have assessed it, the board has assessed it, independent advisors and organizers have assessed it, and everyone has come to the conclusion that this was right for the company now, even on the basis of the reality that you relate to, according to the majority of Storting. Finally, with regard to the differentiated employer’s fee: I think that I would say that instead of established instruments, we need to find the new instruments. This is not about finding something that does not go in the right direction both for housing and to further develop our competence in the different regions, but it may be that some of the arrangements we have need to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e757	At one time, the Left's proposal in the budget position was not promoted in my main post, so I allow myself to do it here and now. The budget proposal details the investment company and its objectives. The purpose of the company is inter alia: focusing on clusters with the potential for future value creation. In the nations today, it is said to read: ‘The Government open to Norwegian gene bank’. In addition, it says: ‘The government will discuss the possibility of setting up a semi-state Norwegian company to conduct re-monitoring in Norway.’ Furthermore, the article states that the Minister for Economic Affairs has by letter stated that ‘the Minister for Health will convene a joint meeting on the matter’. In retrospect, there seem to be unclear signals from the Government about what is the reality of this. My questions to the Council of State will then be: Is re-monitoring part of an important business cluster with the potential for future value creation? Is it relevant to establish a new semi-stated company to conduct re-monitoring in Norway? Or is it the investment company that gets a majority today, intended to establish a semi-state Norwegian company for re-monitoring here to land?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e776	The representative of Kongshaug has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e779	The question of a gene bank I am going to refer to a letter that both the Minister of Health and I have received from the Erik Must group, where he mentions that he wants to discuss this further with us. It is clear that once we have received an enquiry, we have said that we would like to hear what the Must Group wants. There was no meeting, so I don't know what the Must group is thinking about, except that I see from the newspapers that one in the group is positive to an investment company. As regards the investment company, and whether it becomes a subsidiary or a business idea, the matter will be referred to the Stortinget, as requested by the Stortinget. The majority of the population, which is behind the investment company, has shown that important areas to address can be ICT, energy and environment, health and biotechnology. This is in line with what the whole Storting joined in the Research Communication, which has actually been repeated now on the part of the Economic and Social Committee. It'll be after the lines that we're now going to draw up the concrete proposal for an investment company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e791	The Progress Party believes that Norway has natural conditions that allow the harvesting of marine resources in a good and efficient way. Last year, fish and fish products were exported for a total of 30 billion kroner. We therefore believe that fish and marine products have the potential to develop into the most important export industry in the long term. It is therefore important to facilitate the sustainable exploitation of fish, crustaceans, marine mammals, shellfish, seaweed and algae. However, the Progress Party believes that the deregulation and liberalisation of the fishing industry are too slow. What should be an efficient and stand-alone industry is still characterised by a multitude of public measures, regulations and regulatory requirements. It is imperative for us to clarify this, even though we recognise that the fishing industry needs to be regulated to some extent, among other things. because no one has natural ownership of marine resources. Nevertheless, we believe that there is too much distance between sensible regulation based on ensuring freedom of competition in industry and the current amount of regulation, regulation and regulation. Marine mammals are part of the ecological system. Reasonable taxation will have a positive impact on the population of a number of fish species. The stock of seals, including: In the East and West, it has now become so big that it is becoming a serious threat to some fish stocks and has actually been so for quite some time. Therefore, the Progress Party will work towards an increase in self-afraid by establishing an agreement with Russia on this matter. In this connection, we will not avoid mentioning the Norwegian wave whale catch. This catch contributes to the creation of profitable jobs for prisoners, producers and associated industries along the coast. We would also like to remind you here of the document No. Eight proposals calling on the Government to immediately repeal Norway's self-imposed export ban on products from wave whales, a matter for consideration in the Committee. The Party considers that there are too strict conditions for the award of the concession for aquaculture/farming and that this is detrimental to the industry. We are primarily of the opinion that the concession arrangements should be removed and that the restrictions should only be those resulting from pollution and veterinary considerations. It is natural that municipalities with natural aquaculture/farming conditions should facilitate their regulatory plans for such activities. Furthermore, we believe that feed quotas in this industry are an premature intervention in the individual holding and therefore need to be brought to an end. If we are to achieve the growth in this industry that is being sought for the years to come, Norway must achieve a much better salmon agreement with the EU than is the case today. As you know, a new salmon agreement to be implemented in June 2002 will be negotiated in the autumn of 2001. Many aspects of the salmon agreement need to be reworked or removed in these renegotiations. In the case of the fisheries agreement, the Party will enter into negotiations for the conclusion of trade agreements and other selective use of the instrument, except in the case of self-anxious subsidies. We believe that even with changes in fishing quotas for species in 2001, there will be good conditions for the industry. So, as an alternative, we want to open up another organization and structure that can give us an improved return on what we can call fish wealth. The Party will also underline the importance of having a nutritional perspective on the fishing industry. We therefore believe that rural policy and empowerment must be pursued, inter alia. by means of the ordinary instrument and training institutions, irrespective of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e812	The future national welfare will depend on how we replace the decline in oil revenue in the coming years. The release of the value creation potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries will be of central importance to the possibilities of maintaining the level of welfare, so that Norway is also one of the world’s best countries to live in in the future. This is what lies in the vision Values from the sea – the future of Norway. Value growth and innovation do not come about by themselves; action is needed today to realize the value creation in 10, 20 or 30 years' time. I can therefore join in stressing the need to focus more offensively on the fisheries and aquaculture industry in the coming years. The Ministry of Fisheries's draft budget prioritises strengthening efforts in the fields of marine research, innovation, safe sea food, infrastructure and safety, which are important prerequisites for triggering the potential for value creation in industry. One of the main challenges ahead is to facilitate that we have enough people for all the jobs that will be created in the marine industries. We depend on the industry attracting young people and highly skilled labour from a wide range of disciplines. This will require the industry to have attractive jobs that provide room for personal development, leisure and family life, good pay and not least well-being. This will again make demands on living societies that make people want to live along the coast. The recent focus on cows' health, feed bone meal, etc. underlines the growing importance of safe food. The market requires increased official control and evidence that the inputs and products are safe. Of course, this also applies to seafood. The Government has therefore proposed a substantial strengthening of the appropriations for safe sea food under the Directorate of Fisheries and the Nutrition Institute. I am not aware that there are rumours and rumors that illegalities are taking place, both in the form of quota shocks and illegal discards. Such rumors have been going on for years, and the Coast Guard, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Sales Act, which are our control bodies, have, over these years, carried out a considerable effort to possibly verify these rumors. Good cooperation with tax and customs authorities has also been developed. To the extent that the control bodies have encountered irregularities, the cases have been left to the prosecution authority or decided by a hearing. It must be said that the control activities have revealed a number of irregularities, but not on such a scale as has been suggested in the past. The control effort of the Directorate of Fisheries has been concentrated in recent years on sales control, especially towards the buyer side. Furthermore, in recent years the possibility of having inspectors on board fishing vessels has been put into effect, and this year we have introduced the use of satellite tracking for the sea fishing fleet. The offences detected, and the experience acquired in this way by the control body, have provided the basis for the Fisheries Directorate to estimate the quota jack to be 5-15 pst. of the quotas established in the cod sector and of 10-20 pst. in the herring sector. Of course, the Ministry of Fisheries also takes well-founded allegations of illegalities seriously. However, the practice rules for this industry, with a diversity of actors in vast seas, cannot be based on rumors. It would be irresponsible of me. I have to rely on the information obtained from the activities of the control bodies and the prosecution and judicial authorities in this area. And these are drawing a slightly less dramatic picture than what we've been able to read out of the media in the last few days. The Ministry of Fisheries is now preparing, as soon as possible, the implementation of increased scope of control activities. The fishing sales laws, in cooperation with the control authorities, shall increase their own control activities and a landing note system shall be established. I have already instructed the Fisheries Director to implement a strict practice of suspending or withdrawing the acquisition permit or purchase registration when illegalities are detected. In addition, industry organisations shall draw up an ethics label and provide a wide-ranging discussion of attitudes and ethical awareness within their own organisations. To spring, the Ministry of Fisheries will promote a noble-thing proposition on changes in the Raw Fish Act and the Saltwater Fisheries Act with a view to achieving a more effective control activity. I note that the Committee is also concerned about overcapacity within the fishing fleet, and that sustained overcapacity appears – in addition to fraud and illegal fishing – to be a threat to scarce fish stocks. In recent years, the growth in the production of salmon and trout has been reduced in the form of increased feed quotas. However, I believe it is important that we use the whole coast and also exploit the potential that exists in unused sea areas. There is therefore a broad consensus that new concessions for salmon and trout production are now being awarded during 2001. On the basis of the raised doubts that salmon concessions represent large values, I believe it is reasonable for the State to take a remuneration for the exclusive right to operate the production of salmon and trout. Remuneration will therefore be required for the concessions to be awarded in 2001. The Ministry of Fisheries is now examining how a system of remuneration should be implemented. Proposals for the basis of the Breeding Act to charge fees for the award will be sent at general consultation, and the Government will promote an out-of-the-box proposal in this respect during the spring. Many have good reasons why they should be granted concessions. For me, however, it is important that we now do a thorough work on the preparation of the guidelines for the award of the new concessions. Our objective in concession awarding is to develop good projects to exploit the full potential of the coast. That is why we want to do a lot of work to create an allocation regulation that ensures this. As far as future strategies for the development of the aquaculture industry are concerned, I will come back to these in the agricultural policy statement that I will present to the Storting on 11 January next year. In the budget proposal, the Government has proposed to return to the Storting with a cost framework and progress plan for the construction of a new research vessel in the revised 2001 budget. I noticed that the majority in the committee agreed on the need for a new vessel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e853	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e856	I read an article by Frode Pleym from Greenpeace here by day with the heading «Fishing yokes + legal quota = black seas». We know what has happened in many sea areas outside the Norwegian jurisdiction area where one has not managed to regulate this rationally and have systems that govern itself. This has now been taken seriously by the Council of State with measures against fishing jacks. He sent out a press release on actions that could become relevant to implementation, and has also now announced that there will be propositions that will address these things in the spring. We have a big problem that I feel is not doing anything about. I also feel that it will be difficult to get good solutions through regulations and measures. Director Peter Gullestad said to the media this day: «The overcapacity of the fishing fleet is close to fifty percent.» This is a fundamental problem. We have a long-range coast, and we'll never be able to get effective control measures if we don't get systems that control themselves, that is, you do something about the overcapacity that really matters here. Does the Council agree that it is difficult to expect good results, which really means something, before something is done with this overcapacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e865	I agree with everyone who says that overcapacity in the fishing fleet is a very big problem. I agree with everyone who says that we need to take serious action both nationally and internationally to bring this problem to life. But I would also like to say that in the Norwegian fishing industry, a number of such measures have actually been carried out. Mostly so far it has been possible to implement this within the sea fishing fleet, where it can be said roughly that we have given vessels the opportunity to pool fishing capacity to increase the quota for each vessel. In addition to this, we will propose that this should also apply to boats down to 21 metres, and then we will have to tackle measures that have the same effect on the coastal fishing fleet as well. Here, it is much more difficult to carry out such activities, because these vessels fish to a large extent outside vessel quota-regulated fisheries. I would also draw attention to the fact that industry's organisations are also concerned about this, and I would like to point out that in the negotiations on the fisheries agreement for next year we have a separate protocol on this issue, in which it is agreed that industry's organisations and the authorities should explore the possibility of structural schemes financed by industry, by the public or by interaction between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e874	To ensure employment and housing, we cannot have a rights-based fisheries system that is blind to geography. There is a need to increase regional governance of fisheries resources and to link the rights of the regions. Sustainable resource management will certainly be an important contribution to ensuring sustainable fishing communities, but the opposite also applies equally strongly: sustainable fisheries require sustainable local communities. I don't think it helps so much with control and punishment if the fishing communities in Norway are confused socially, politically and morally. Over time, traders must see the point of complying with standards and rules, not the opposite, that it is about not to be taken. I have a question in relation to the fisheries negotiations. This has been dealt with with by multiannual quotas, and that is understandable given the need for predictability of fishing industries, which we all want. The last time Stortinget discussed this matter in connection with St. ermeld. No 51 for 1997-98, the Committee said: ‘The Ministry of Fisheries will contribute to the development of long-term management strategies, but cannot take account of the stability of allowances ahead of sustainable resource management. This means that, in the true sense of the word, a multi-annual quota is not realistic with the current level of knowledge of fluctuations in fisheries stocks. At the same time, stability is an objective of the fisheries management.» Then my question is: is the Norwegian authorities of the belief that such knowledge is available today — also in the light of the last month’s disclosure of fishing fraud? I would also like a comment from the Minister on how he had intended to explain to the Storting about how to deal with these questions about fish fraud, and about when he can come back with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e888	To take the last question first, about when to orientate the Storting. I am concerned that measures are being taken that work, and that they are being based on an analysis of their cause and effect. We have already notified the Stortinget proposal for changes to the Saltwater Fishing Act and the Raw Fish Act, which will be presented next March. With regard to fisheries agreements negotiations and the relationship to scientific advice and long-termity, I would say that the agreement we have reached for the current year represents an opportunity both to keep a relatively low yield and to ensure a long-term build-up of the stock and stability of the industry. I think it is right in this context to draw attention to the fact that the level chosen for this population is relatively low compared to what was the level if one goes back to 1997 and the next few years, where it was thought that there was a much stronger development. The agreement has clauses which state that if this does not evolve as intended, action may be taken in this respect. In the same way, the agreement has clauses that if the desired level of spawning stock is reached, i.e. 500,000 tonnes, before this, it must also be possible to take that into account. However, it is generally beneficial for the whole industry to be able to deal with something in the long term for its planning, not least for the structural measures that it is absolutely necessary to achieve the right balance between resources and fishing capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e896	We are talking about one of the largest industries in Norway – fisheries and aquaculture. We are talking about an industry that is believed to be far more important for employment and for districts than it is today. We have recently, as both I and the Council of State were in our posts, looked at this with cheating and detection of cheating, claims about it at least. Whether it's as large as it's claimed, whether it's smaller or larger, I don't have an exact formation about it, but I won't be surprised if it has an extent far beyond what we've seen so far. Having grown up in a fishing weather and been in the industry for some years, it won't surprise me. The state council pointed to a number of individual cases that had gone to the courts. What has been typical of the cases that have gone to the courts is that both those who have been on the sea and those who have been on the land have had a common interest, and that is one of the problems associated with this. And then, in my opinion, it is far from enough that the Council of State refers to the fact that the organisations of industry are concerned about this. It was just supposed to be missing that they weren't. And to the extent that the extent should be less than what is claimed, it is also very important for the industry to be cleaned for the claims made. I challenged the Council of State in my statement whether he could today from this pulpit confirm that he will come to the Stortinget as soon as possible with an oral statement from this pulpit. In his reply to Karlstrøm, he suggested something about the concrete proposals that are already in Stortinget and on his way to Stortinget, which he is planning. I do not think that is sufficient. Will the Council of State, or will he not, take an initiative to make a statement in the Storting as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e905	I agree with the representative Gabrielsen that there are many things about fish and fish jacks that give cause for concern. I also agree with the representative Gabrielsen that it is not enough for organisations to talk about this issue. But I actually believe that this is one of the things that you have to put in the industry, because it's because both the buyer and the seller are dealing with cases of the branch they're both sitting on, if they don't even realize that what they're doing is unreasonable. I think it is very important to come back to Stortinget with a statement about the situation. I think it is equally important to come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals on what to do to address this situation and make it better through changes in the law. The answer to the question from the representative Gabrielsen is quite clear, a statement will be made as soon as possible on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e912	There is a certain ambiguity about the Minister for Fisheries when he talks about rumors about fishing jacks in his main post. The Ministry of Fisheries produced a report in 1992 showing that it was then 36 pst. of the catch in the Barents Sea, 130 000 tonnes, black fishing — unregistered fishing. We could say that's a long time ago. But last year Odd Nakken went out – and he's not anyone in research – and said that the big problem they had was illegal fishing, it was draft and it was black, unregistered fishing. Is Odd Nak Just a Rumor? Can’t one rely on his statement that this is a reality? After what I hear, the Marine Research Institute has suggested 100,000 tonnes in black fishing. Has the council still heard only rumors, or is there not so much reality in this that there is reason to be surprised and shocked? The Committee then has an excellent unanimous comment: ‘The basis for setting quotas still needs to be based on the recommendations of the researchers.’ Now, the Council of State was absolutely right in saying that in 1997, the bomb was heavily bombed, had far too high quotas, and also in the years that followed. The father is that you can bomb again. With regard to the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, a catch of 130 000 tonnes has now been set up above what the researchers have recommended. At the same time, you have black fish. Yes, there is a barn championship in the eradication of the cod strain. And then my question to the Council of State is, is it that the quotas are set and based on the recommendations of the researchers, or is it actually far beyond what the researchers have recommended?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e923	Odd Neck is not a rumor spreader. Odd Nacken is a serious scientist, and all his recommendations and recommendations to do things to bring this fishy fox to life are taken very seriously. He is one of many who for over a number of years has pointed out that things are not related, who have pointed out the need to do things, and he is one of many secretaries of the measures that are actually taken. It is important that we remind each other that we are already carrying out a significant control of the fishing industry: the coastguard does it at sea, the Fisheries Directorate does it on the quay, they do it with documents, they cooperate with customs authorities, they cooperate with Ecokrim, they cooperate with the courts, and the sales laws do it. And we have to trust that the systems they have chosen, which actually expose people's illegalities and bring them to justice, work best with the total resources at their disposal. I agree that when it comes to fisheries management, this must be based on the recommendations of the researchers. I believe that in the very special case of Norwegian-Arctic cod, these recommendations have been followed, but they have chosen to arrive at the optimal result for a longer period than the one recommended by the researchers. They are on a higher level of taxation than is recommended, but in the long term it is hoped and believed that this will be balanced, and it will once again be a topic for next year's negotiations if not. I believe that this is important for industry, for stability and for the development of the potential of the overall fishing industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e932	The focus of the last days on irregularities, fraud, snuff and fantasy in the fishing industry is unfortunate and has a negative impact on the reputation of the industry. Nevertheless, I think it is right to say that it is important not to generalise – stamping an entire industry is wrong. Here you have to look at individual cases and look at them. Otherwise, I agree with the speakers who have said that it is important to address the problem. I would say that the Minister for Fisheries has taken hold of it in an offensive way already, and we are looking forward to the continuation. The proposal for a State budget provides for an increased commitment to research in the breeding of marine species. The expected growth in the breeding of new species raises issues of which the Left and the Committee are very concerned, and it goes on the line between traditional breeding and fattening of wild caught juveniles. Taking into account the control of the resource take-off, the fisheries authorities should focus on the borderline between marine farming and traditional fishing. The Economic and Social Committee asks the fisheries authorities to look at the gap between marine farming and traditional fishing, and my question to the Minister for Fisheries is: does the Minister for Fisheries take a positive view of that measure and will the Minister for Fisheries, in his follow-up, involve different bodies in this work, such as the Sales Act? The second question concerns farming concessions and education. I had a question earlier to the Council of State Giske, and he was very positive and said it was important in terms of recruitment and education that schools could also get farming concessions. Is the Minister for Fisheries as positive as the Minister for Church and Education that schools can have farming concessions in view of a better recruitment for aquaculture and fisheries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e941	I agree that these fish fraud problems have been covered offensively, and I believe that this should contribute significantly to things getting better than they are. In the case of new species, I think the representative Kongshaug points to things that it's very important to get fundamental clarifications. I'm convinced that there is a lot of positive business development in the dividing line between these two parts of our industry. I am absolutely sure that aquaculture as such can help create greater stability in employment based on wild resources, if we can get these parts of the industry to join together. I have e.g. said that I think it should be taken as a challenge in Finnmark to produce 50,000 tonnes of cod in breeding in a few years. I am convinced that it is possible to try and I am convinced that this will contribute positively to the stability of employment and lay the basis for increased value creation, for example. in Finnmark. And there are many of these examples. In the process of seeing where these boundaries are to be located, all those involved will be taken on board. This of course also applies to the sales teams. In the case of fish farming concessions to educational institutions, I also think this is positive and necessary. If we are to expect to attract skills to the industry in the future, we need to provide training that is relevant to practical training for people entering the industry. There are already educational concessions, and I'm positively committed to finding room for more of these concessions to make the recruitment of the industry as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e952	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e955	Naturally, as a representative of the Christian People's Party, I would like to draw up some important elements of the budgetary agreement between the Government Party and the Centre. For us, it was important that we have set up an appropriation to launch the realisation of a centre of expertise for Northern Norwegian agriculture. The Government shall assess the governance of the Centre on the basis of the objective of ownership of the industry in North Norway. The government will also assess how the University of Tromsø can be involved, and of course also how the University's competence can be involved in R & D work around small farms in agriculture, inland fishing and reindeer farming in the rural district. I see it as natural that the issue of higher education in Arctic agriculture and natural uses, as the Business Committee asked the Government to assess in spring in the context of the agricultural notification, will be a natural follow-up when the Centre of Competence is realised. Small enterprises in the primary industry will then be able to start joint programmes for both competence and value creation. There is an important national investment in a region. The Committee has also clarified that the Centre should have a strong focus on women as innovation and entrepreneurs and on those who are entering new paths in old traditions. The budget agreement also increased the appropriations for the Norwegian Tourism Council by 7.5 million. kr. The Committee refers here to the focus of agri-food and food culture on the notification of agricultural and travel life. The entire Committee believes that good and appropriate branding around Norwegian rural tourism will also be important to enable businesses to realise their ambitions both in the agricultural and tourism notices. Farms in Norway are an exciting business base for entrepreneurs, and the demand for farms is also high for nutritional purposes. It is gratifying that a majority of the Committee sees it as important that the Internet portal ‘Meetingplace — Free use of the garden on the network’ be ensured to provide funds for the future operation and development of the portal and for the development of competences in the municipalities. I am excited about the follow-up from the Government regarding this matter. The Christian People's Party believes that investing in competence is also investing in children and young people's commitment. Norwegian 4H is the only children’s and youth organisation that is conscious and competent to develop the entrepreneurial spirit of children and young people’s leisure interests. For the past ten years, Norwegian 4H has been particularly active in coastal industries, and is probably the only voluntary organisation that engages young people with what is to be the nation’s future industry number one. Reverseing the cut in the allocation of this organisation was important to us. As far as fish fraud is concerned, it is important that the Minister makes a statement on its scope. The seriousness of this case can be so big that we have to think through the whole administration and our quota system. Then I don't think there are enough changes in the saltwater fishing law and the raw fish law and increased control. My claim is that the more the rights and benefits of fisheries are linked to the region and local communities, the greater the temptation will be to cheat. The looser the rights are in the community, the less interested they are in acting as administrators, and thus also as inspectors. Bringing down fishing capacity in the fishing industry as the main measure of reducing fraud, I believe, is a short-circuit policy. Rather, give local communities and regions greater responsibility for administration. A awake population is the best controllers. In my view, it is very important to see the link between skills and insight into the main activity and the ability to realise nutrient projects in the further work on value creation both in agriculture and in reindustry. Structuralisation, which is strongly driven by the state, could destroy some of the motivation and opportunities for innovation and also the multi-functional importance of agriculture in Norwegian society. In the meantime, I want to warn the Government against being too hard on the structure, precisely because of the ambitions of the value creation program. Starting a business takes three to five years, and if the land under the company in traditional production sinks into the camp while running value creation, it is not very motivating. There have been several signals from actors outside who feel a fear around this. I would rather recommend that it be focused on ceilings on transfers per. use, and that output in addition to traditional production and new production becomes market-based.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e983	The Government has submitted a budget to the Ministry of Agriculture for 2001 with a focus on ensuring safe food for consumers and measures to ensure a more consumer-oriented agriculture. Important objectives of agricultural policy have been achieved through cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. I am also pleased with the cooperation within the Committee which has led to the adoption of important reforms in relation to the proposal to change the organisation of the Land Change Agency and the proposal relating to veterinary preparedness. We have carried out a process aimed at changing the organisation of the Land Change Agency. It is added to lay down six offices and move four offices. With this reorganization, we want inter alia: to give the judges more time for judicial work; we want more cost-effective operation of the land change rights; and to simplify the organisation by removing the land change chief posts. The sum of the measures shall provide better service. The proposal relating to veterinary preparedness facilitates the establishment of watchkeeping systems throughout the country. This shall contribute to strengthening animal protection and preparedness for serious transmissible animal diseases, including: BSE, or jealousy, in order to use a more familiar concept. By letter of 5 December 2000, the Norwegian Veterinary Association informed the Ministry that they do not consider it appropriate to conclude an agreement establishing new watch arrangements within the given financial framework. I would like to point out that a clear increase has been proposed in the allocation of clinical guards. I assume that the Norwegian Veterinary Association is continuing to negotiate on the basis that the Stortinge determines. The government's budget proposal shows that we focus significantly on food. Here the objective is clear: the country’s inhabitants will have access to enough food, the food will have the right quality, and it will be safe and good. Based on some statistics, I would say that we in Norway are very well placed in relation to the objective. However, many and more seem to experience reality differently. The debate on jealousy in Europe over the last few weeks is characteristic in this way. Consumers experience the situation as a threat. I'll say a little bit about how we'll meet this situation. It is natural to take as a starting point the recent weeks of debate on the problem of cow disease. New cases of this disease in Spain and Germany give rise to fears and concerns among consumers and in industries far beyond central Europe. The decision on new decisions is lifted to the top. The so-called food scandals we've had in Europe in recent years have some common features. There are often new and hitherto unknown states. The risk of each individual being affected is small, but the damage if anything happens is very serious. Authorities face two clear challenges. Firstly, risk-based monitoring is required throughout the food chain based on the latest and best available knowledge. In the word risk-based, I suggest that, based on objective knowledge, professionals should be able to demonstrate the level of protection of different measures. Then it's important to be aware that zero risk does not exist. Therefore, it is up to policy authorities to determine which level is considered acceptable and what it costs to manage the risk at the given level. The result shall be an objectively trusted oversight. And then the second principle: there must be full transparency towards consumers, and consumers must be given influence in both professional and decision-making forums. It's about trust. In the field of food policy, as Minister of Agriculture, I will try to meet two demands I know consumers have, namely the right to know and the right to choose. That is why I have speeded up the labelling of beef as one of many measures in a new plan to correct food policy. In the case of BSE, our control measures have been assessed by the Scientific Committee in the EU. Here we were placed as best of all EEA countries. Nevertheless, when the EU Minister of Agriculture decided on Monday to temporarily prohibit the use of meat and bone meal, preliminary to a six-month period, the Government’s decision was clear. There has to be a corresponding tightening here. This is about taking consumers seriously and dealing with the perceived risk. These measures shall demonstrate that the authorities wish to maintain the safety margin. Such measures cost. The measures cannot be covered within the 2001 budget. We do not yet have a full overview of the increase in costs. It was originally planned to test about 2,000 animals per. years. As a result of the decision, we will increase the testing to about 6,700 animals. Depending on the result of the first six months of testing, animals over 30 months of age may have to be tested for slaughter before the meat can be authorised. The temporary ban on the use of meat-and-bone meal in the power-feed production will entail high additional costs in the livestock that will arrive quickly and from 1 January onwards. It is therefore a basis for requiring negotiations on the part of agriculture under the Agreement on Agriculture. These costs will need to be further identified. These costs may, in principle, be covered by either increased prices in the market, state budget appropriations, and by a proportion of the industry or a combination of these three possibilities. We also need to look at how these issues will be addressed in our neighbouring countries. I intend to start negotiations as soon as necessary. In addition, costs related to the establishment of a bovine health database at individual level are included. As soon as the consequences of the new requirements are clear, I will return to Stortinget with proposals for the necessary additional appropriations in 2001. Agricultural policy is an active regional policy instrument. For the agricultural sector in 2001, the government will commit itself to continuing the main principles of the agricultural settlement of the year. Use where agriculture makes a significant contribution to employment and income will therefore be prioritised. The same applies to measures that can contribute to cost reductions and transformations throughout the food chain. Agriculture must adapt to the same situation as other industries. In order to stimulate innovation and market correction, a value creation programme for Norwegian food production is established. This programme shall support good models for the development and production of new products, good ideas for product development, production and marketing, and other measures to produce and sell products that increase local and regional value creation based on Norwegian raw materials. We have a similar program on the forest side. I welcome the Committee's agreement to the Government's prioritisation of value creation measures in forestry and forestry. I have also noticed that the Committee is concerned that the level of investment in forestry should be increased. I share the Committee's concern about today's level of investment, and in this context I have recently invited the industry to a broad discussion on how we can jointly address these challenges. First of all, the Ministry of Agriculture will have a clear investigation into the forest culture activity in forestry. This gives us the opportunity for a broad review of these questions. The budget agreement has provided for the establishment of a North Norwegian Centre of Competence. This leads to the establishment of a Northern Norway Centre of Competence for Agriculture and Inland Fisheries in 2001. The Competence Centre shall be a knowledge base for the development, coordination and dissemination of competences. This will contribute to the innovation and strengthening of agricultural, natural, inland fishing and related industries in the rural area. The aim is to reduce the price difference between some Norwegian agricultural products and similar products in our neighbouring countries. From the state side, we have laid the groundwork for lowering food prices by reducing the target prices in the agricultural settlement of the year. Half of the VAT on food will be an important contribution to reducing border trade, strengthening the income base of Norwegian producers and providing cheaper food to consumers. I am pleased that the Committee supports the Government's policy of achieving a more ecologically sustainable clean-up. The situation of heavy losses and thus reduced production is a major challenge in the policy of reindeer management. Therefore, reducing the imbalance between purity and resource base is a high priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1027	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1031	The Council of State said that half of the food tax would be an important tool to reduce borderline leakage. Yeah, I guess so, we're going to hope it works that way. But in the age of the cowry, Kari and Ola Nordmann are more than ever in Sweden, so it seems as if they have faith in the Swedish control apparatus, Swedish meat and partly also imported meat into Sweden. I want to quote Dagbladet today, which has a heading where it says: «Good to trade Swedish». There is one who says, ‘It’s a shame that we have to go to Sweden to make Norway cheaper. I fully agree with that. But now we're going to get half the food moms. First, VAT should go up 1 pst, to 24 pst, on 1 January, to go down to food on 1 July next year. But the government's proposal for lower alcohol charges was nothing of the kind, it was 17.5 pst. which was proposed. A lot of people who have knowledge of this, and who are relatively neutral, believe that we come out with the status quo. So I feel that if we're going to be able to do something real to reduce the borderline leakage, we also have to have some other tools than just to wait until we get halved food moms. Nor does it know how much will benefit consumers. In 1996, the Swedishs halved the food tax, and relatively much benefited consumers. But there is a real difference, for the Swedes simultaneously opened up to greater internal competition, which meant that consumers got better out. My question to the Council of State is, what else does the Ministry have in mind to do something real? Now I hear that agricultural teams are also considering stopping the border trade by stopping imports of meat from Sweden. What are the views of the Council of State on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1040	What is important in relation to the problems of border trade is that if we do not manage to deal with those problems, an increasing proportion of the Norwegian market for Norwegian agricultural products will disappear. Then we get an industry with a lower and lower economy, so that there is a growing need for state transfers in order to have a satisfactory level of income. It is therefore important that the Norwegian market be withdrawn, in the sense that we take market shares from Swedish trade. What has been important for the Government is to say that there is not one particular reason why we have a situation with quite large price differences between Norway and Sweden on some important products — and it is important to stress that not all products but some important products are involved. It's a causal relationship, which is something about the way we produce food, something about the way we slaughter and process food, something about the way we trade it, and also some about the state's tax policy. For this reason, it has been important for the Government to say that we now want to start work to get an effect where the sum of measures reduces the price difference between Norwegian and Swedish food. And it's a good thing that we have reduced target prices and established a steady, stable lower price level of raw materials. We have worked with the slaughterhouse industry, which means that we know that the price of half-and-a-half of the slaughter has gone down. And we are now pushing and pressing in relation to the processing industry and trade in goods to make sure that the reduced commodity prices come to consumers in terms of reduced consumer prices. And then from the next summer we're going to have a few reduced food moms. The sum of this effort will, in my opinion, lead to a reduction in price differences, and then we are in the process of an important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1047	I notice that the representative Hedstrøm now has also found that it is madness to act in Sweden, and I understand that he has arrived at it. But to reality. What I, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, can give strong support to what the Council of State said, is that there is a need for a good deal in relation to food prices and border trade. I would like to know more about what measures the Council of State intends to take in relation to trade in goods. So far we've seen that making Norway cheaper pretty much has been to increase its own wealth for those who own these chains. There, the Council of State has full support from the Christian People's Party to put in place effective measures, but I have heard no more than general remarks about it so far. Then I perceive the Council of State so that he accepted a third of the costs that now come with measures that need to be started because of the situation in Europe when it comes to jealousy. Did you get that right? There is a section for a new veterinary watch system in the configuration. There's also just a letter from the Veterinary Unit. I would like a confirmation from the Council of State that he will follow up what the Committee has said, that a new watch regime should be put in place on the basis of the premises put in place by the Committee and, as the majority say, that it should not be set in motion until an agreement is reached. It's important that the state councils here and now follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1058	There were three comprehensive questions. I get to start from the top: what can be done in relation to the trade in goods? As the representative Lilletun says, what we have experienced so far is that the target price, that is, the farmer's price, has fallen, the price of whole and half slaughter has fallen, but the consumer price has not fallen. And there's two terms in between. It is the cutting and processing industry and the trade in goods. So some of them now use reduced prices to the farmer in order to take out increased margins in their business. We now need to see whether it is the cutting and processing industry or the trade in goods that takes out increased margins, or whether it is both. That is why we now have a major project going on together with the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research and ECON Centres for Economic Analysis, which is due to be completed in a very short time and which is just about to follow half the pig until the carcass. And then we'll see what happens. And it is clear that once the investigations have been completed, I will have the basis to take action against those who are now eating off the load. I do not think there should be any particularly strong measures, because both the processing industry and the trade in goods have said that they should ensure that reduced commodity prices benefit the consumer. Such a study would probably be an excellent opportunity to remind them of their own promises, and I have faith in that. I have not said that I accept a third of the costs. I neither accept nor accept anything per. today. I say that, in principle, there are three possible sources of funding: increased prices in the market, allocations of the state budget and prostheses from the industry, or a combination of these. That's what we're going to do. Moreover, it is always the case that the majority of the Committee's comments must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1069	First, commend the Minister of Agriculture for his rapid reaction to the origin labelling of meat. I think consumers will appreciate that – the ability to choose and choose from quality. And when newspapers every day bring messages that safe food is demanded, cost what it will cost, I also think that in such a situation, consumers will have a great understanding of other measures that allow us to keep the good animal health that we have. I hope the investigations that are now being carried out on cattle can confirm that we have so good animal health that we can gradually step down the costly testing of the meat and have a lower level of testing in Norway than elsewhere. I think we have a basis for that. But equally important for people's health is that the industrial product is equally healthy. And then we get the food makeup directive sent from the government in the middle of a time when the newspapers are full of people's concern for their health and what they can be charged with. That directive – and we have to assume that the limits set by the authorities are in force – is an increase in allergy and asthma, especially among children, and an increase in cancer risk. The EU Scientific Committee has said about the cancer risk due to nitrosamines that they are ‘carcinogenic to the extent that there is no safe minimum level of health’. My question to the Minister of Agriculture is linked to this with risk-based supervision: have any estimates been made of the risk of dying of cancer due to nitrate in food compared to the risk of dying of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease due to bovine meat infection?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1080	This matter of the Food Mining Directive has been forwarded from the Government to the Stortingen and is under consideration in the Food Committee, and as far as I have been informed, the Committee also plans to conduct open consultations on this issue. A number of hearing bodies will be called up/invited, and there will be ample opportunity to fully address the directive. Morten Lund asks whether some studies have been carried out on the risk of cancer associated with certain specific substances. It might be done, but I don't know. So I don't have enough knowledge to say whether it's done or not, and at least not whether it's been assessed against the risk of illness as a result of the illness. So what must be the starting point is that these are absolutely current issues that should be addressed in the open hearings, but otherwise, of course, we from the Government will be able to explain it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1089	Governments had many interesting considerations in their articles. I took particular note of his statements when it came to half the food tax. Now I was in the happy situation that I was traveling around with the then nutritionist spokesperson in the Workers' Party in advance of the processing of the agricultural message and has his many good posts on why you should not introduce half of the food tax, in fresh memory. But time is changing, and we must take note of that. I think what he said about the right to know and the right to choose is very well formulated, and I have full confidence in the way in which the Council of State has dealt with the difficult issue of cow disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease. I think it's very important that we do the measures that are necessary in order for us to have an advantage in terms of the safety of the meat that de facto is on the disk in Norway. I am quite convinced that the Stortinget will also be willing to grant what is necessary in relation to taking care of it. Now, I guess it's not like it was said, that consumers say, "Cost what it costs." But that'll show up. It has not been indicative to at least now. One of the reasons people travel to Sweden is that they do not accept ‘cost what it will’. However, my question to the Council of State is something that stands in the nation today, which I suppose he has read. This concerns the fee levied on the two independent dairies, the Gausdalmeieriet and the Jären Gardsmeieri. In other words, the State Agriculture Administration has made demands for fees to be paid to such an extent that it de facto means termination of these two competing dairies. After all, the state councils have previously had actions related to this, and my question is: Does he still feel the same in this area as regards the need to have competition, and will he take the consequences of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1100	First of all, I would like to stress that my very clear reminder from the meetings of the agricultural communications that the representative Gabrielsen mentioned was that neither Gabrielsen nor I expressed any clear position in the food tax case. These are arguments for, and these are arguments against, and we wanted to see the Government's budget proposal before we finally took a position on it. So if there's an underflow here because today I mean something quite different about that question than what I've expressed before, that's not true. So the question that goes on the private dairies. There it is that the Storting has provided guidance on how we will work with them. We had a large working group working on the balancing charge in front of the agricultural settlement. The new system was accepted and adopted by the Stortinget in connection with the Stortingen processing of agricultural holdings in the spring. We then set new balancing charges, both in terms of product balancing and geographical cohesion. Of course, I have to assume that the system applies, and we want to use our device to try to collect the fees. I think that the new system that has been put in place takes due account of the disadvantages experienced by many small businesses that want to establish competition with TINE. So the starting point, of course, is that the decisions that are taken are to be implemented. Now I have also – although I have not read the Nations today – recorded that there is a debate on this. I will now have a meeting with these two small daisies on Friday, and at least until the meeting is held, the starting point is that the decision will be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1107	Now both the EU and the Council of State have turned on the blue light and have announced major changes in the infectious and feed policy due to the BSE problem. All the measures are unfortunately a little late. If it's the case that we still have to bet on being better than the European Union, as the Council of State says, it must mean that sometimes we have to go a little bit ahead, that sometimes we have to dry up to do what we actually think is right, that first you have to figure out what is right and wrong, and then you have to look at what is right in what we're going to do. Some of the whole psychology around Swedish trade is also that if you can't clearly show that Norwegian food is actually better, but more expensive, people travel to Sweden and trade. The main strategy here must be that we can really prove with our heart that it is better. It's pure food, and it's safe food. Then «Good Norwegian» is not good enough. SV has made proposals to increase capacity in relation to control activities in relation to animal diseases, food safety and animal protection. And I want to ask the Council of State if he doesn't agree with SV that the consequence of the measures that are coming now is that you actually need to improve and strengthen the control apparatus as well. So finally, organic farming, which is to be a spearhead in the market strategies. So this year's agricultural settlement was 0.6 pst. of the framework used for this purpose. To achieve a 10 pst goal. in 2010, the speed has to be set significantly. One part of what it will be important to get a different grip on will be market organisations, so now those who are going to produce traditional Norwegian food will also be allowed to market organic food – and things are going bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1116	I just have to admit that I am a little surprised at both this line and the post from Karin Andersen in relation to safe food. What she's saying now is that if we're going to be better than the others, we sometimes have to go ahead and dry. The situation is that the EU has now assessed all countries in Europe in relation to the problem of BSE and asked what is the risk of BSE infection in the different countries. Of all EEA countries, one country is classified at the top, using the concept that there is ‘highly unequal’ — most unlikely — the infection is found here. There are no other countries classified in that category. It must be because for many years we have dared to go ahead, that we have implemented measures with a greater degree of effort than what the EU has done. What the EU is now experiencing is that in order to recover from old sins, it is necessary to reinforce them. We don't have any old sins to take up again because we've been working very well on that issue for many years. However, when we say that we are going to implement the measures that the European Union is now implementing, it is not to achieve the same level of safety as the European Union, but it is to take care of the safety advantage we have – that is, to ensure that we now do exactly the same in order to take care of the advantage we have, so that we can continue to go out to Norwegian consumers and say that to the extent that we want to eat beef anywhere in Europe, it is not a single country throughout Europe where it is safer to do so than in Norway, based on the EU's own assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1121	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1125	I am pleased that the theme of fish fraud has received some attention in today's debate. We also have a report on the fisheries agreements concluded with other countries, where we look back. I think it is high time that the Storting took time and got attention around dealing with these issues, because we are today in a situation of resource and management that we should not be in. We have equipped ourselves with an advisory corps, a research corps, with the ability to control to ensure the sustainable management of resources that probably no other country in the world has. But we have, in spite of all that we've equipped ourselves with in research, monitoring and control, the power to end up in a situation where very many of the species of fish that we're going to live on and base growth, settlement and development along the coast are placed closest to the list of endangered species. There is a great weakness in the debate and also in the communication that is being launched and that we are dealing with today, that there is no mention of the expectations that have been set for withdrawals, among others. The Barents Sea, far from having turned on. We see that in 1998 there were expectations of growth in the spawning population of 600 000 tonnes, while the real figure was 280 000 tonnes. We see in 1999 that the expectations of research teams, which were the basis of the Norwegian-Russian negotiations, were 400 000 tonnes, that growth was well above half. Given that we have a gap between expectations and resources that we allocate to ourselves and other nations that we negotiate with, we now need to tear down our sails and learn from what is the actual situation. For it is just as bad as it was in the early 1990s, and it also carries the picture and messages from the Norwegian fishing industry clear bids today. Also take into account that we have a huge overcapacity within the fishing line – it has been mentioned earlier today at 50 pst. – we must ensure that we have a fleet capacity that, in future, harmonises more with the resource access we have. Because this is serious. It is serious in this way that this weakens Norway’s credibility, among other things. with regard to the more or less self-imposed role in which we have put ourselves, to be at the forefront of the range of nations that are responsible for monitoring, control and sustainable development that have the ecological balance as the starting point for withdrawals. It is therefore gratifying to note that the Minister for Fisheries – as a matter of course – promised to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a statement on the allegations of fish fraud. At first, I think it was a very strong inaction over the position of the Minister for Fisheries, but I appreciate that he concluded on the line of the representative Gabrielsen that he would come back «as soon as possible». We'll appreciate that. But when, as the Council of State itself states, such rumors of fish fraud have been coming up for several years, there must be some reason to ask the question: Why has the ministry not taken the initiative to try to get the debate in advance? Now I'm not going to blame the current Minister of Fisheries, there are several people in front of him who should have acted, but that hasn't happened. There is also no particular reason to be reassured when the Minister of Fisheries today says that the picture is ‘less dramatic’ than what has been claimed. It's far from showing any evidence of the situation we're in. What is less dramatic? Are there 100000 tonnes more in withdrawals than the allocated quota? There we have to get clear answers, and we have to get a statement. We also need to be informed of the measures the Council of State is taking, which must be implemented in order to bring us back to the position we had internationally, that Norway was a nation with little to do on these issues, and that was able to take care of the reprehensible situation we are seeing today as regards the North Sea and the contact with the vis-à-vis the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1142	In the last year, there has been a growing awareness of the issue of safe food. Outbreaks of serious animal diseases in other European countries have mainly raised these debates. This applies both to swine fever in England during the summer and to cow disease in several countries, now last in Germany. In the general remarks in the setting of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, we find comments on food safety. Many ask: When does the first serious case of such animal diseases also occur in Norway? This cannot be answered with confidence by anyone. Hopefully it's right that Norway has and has had better and safer systems to prevent serious, contagious animal diseases from appearing here with us. Governments have been called by some to the Minister of Consumer Affairs rather than to the Minister of Agriculture. The latest events underline that the attention of the Council of State to both the producer and the consumer has been right, and the Council of State deserves commendation to be able to see the producer and the consumer in an overall perspective. Safe Norwegian food is most consumers concerned because we want to be sure that the products offered are safe and manufactured in a safe way. Without consumers who trust that the food produced is not harmful to health, a few very difficult situations will arise for Norwegian food production. Several of the issues that the Economic and Social Committee has recently addressed and will be dealing with have a bearing on food safety. This concerns the notification of agro-agriculture «About Norwegian agriculture and food production», the Plant Health Act, the Animal Health Administration Act, the Animal Disease Action Act and the Research Fee on certain agricultural products. In all these cases, measures against animal diseases and measures to produce safe food have been treated relatively thoroughly. It clearly shows that agriculture itself, with all its producers, agricultural organisations and authorities, is very concerned about food security. Veterinary and control systems have a key role in many ways to ensure good quality in the production of safe food from domestic animals. During the treatment of St.prp. No 54 for 1999-2000, On the technical, legal and economic framework for the management of animal health and the activities of veterinarians and other animal health professionals, this was strongly underlined. So we now know that yesterday the Norwegian Veterinary Association broke the negotiations with the State Animal Health Authority on the practical solutions to the veterinary watch systems. This is to be regretted, as the intention behind the new system was to get a better system, not least for food security. In addition, it was suggested that the new watch regimes be evaluated after a relatively short period of time to see whether the intentions of the Stortinge’s decision were met. So to a slightly different matter, a comment on the main priorities and primary positions of the centre party, where it says: ‘A forward-looking agriculture depends on young people finding it attractive to enter the industry. In this context, the possibilities of income are crucial.’ This is, of course, a statement that many people can agree to. And then it goes on to say: ‘These members point out that in both 1998 and 1999, agreement was reached between the Government and the agricultural organisations in the agricultural negotiations, but unfortunately no agreement was reached in 2000.’ One thing is to agree on agreements, something else is what the agreements bring with them in the practical everyday life, and that's probably the last thing that needs to be interesting for those who are going to have their incomes from agriculture. It is the agreements in 1998 and 1999 that provide the framework for the income of agriculture for the 1999 income year. The Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research has found that the income per The annual work sank from 18 900 kroner to 133 900 kroner in 1999. From this point of view, the centre parties should rather try to analyse the figures and find out what went wrong despite recommended agreements and promises from the centre parties on the development of income in line with other professional groups. There is at least little reason to hope that the Workers' Party did not agree with the organisations in 2000. If the Labour Party had negotiated the agreements in 1998 and 1999 with the financial result we are now seeing, it is not difficult to predict what comments this would have produced from the centre parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1180	An important innovation and innovation tool is the State Enterprise and District Development Fund. The SND shall contribute to the development, modernisation, conversion, product development and re-establishment of the country as a whole. SND also has an important role to play in industrial development both through participation in research and development and commercialisation of research results. The Government's draft budget includes: a marine sector investment aimed at contributing to the growth of the fisheries and aquaculture industries and to the realisation of the potential of the value added for the industry. ‘Renewal programme for the commercial exploitation of marine resources’, this is called. Marine resources may form the basis for the development of one of the strongest Norwegian business clusters in the Norwegian economy. The company may be associated with fishing, fishing, farming, processing and export based on Norwegian technology. In addition, we have a monthly potential based on the development of new industries such as biotechnology, bio-prospecting, better use of by-product, and not least the potential that is hidden in the sea, which we can only expect to exist at the source of life on earth. Research and development efforts and long-term resource management are key steps in triggering the value creation potential of this industry. In later times, it has once again been focused on fish fraud. There is reason to follow closely in this matter. There is not a problem with a new date, however, there is a reason to realize that the size is probably larger than what you thought up until now. The matter is very serious, as the allowance recommendations may have to be wrong when the marine scientists lack significant data in their calculation models because an extraction based on cheating does not appear to be sufficient. It is easy to criticise the researchers for their recommendations, but the cause hangs have to be presented. The short-term gain is great for those who cheat, but for the community and in the long run this is a dramatic situation for everyone. Here it is about financial crime, and then it has to be handled. There is a need to look at different tools. Extended use of inspectors on board fishing vessels is one, frequent change of control regime another. Here it has to be cleaned up. I am pleased with the Minister for Fisheries' presentation of measures in this context. It's embarrassing that bookkeeping across a selection of fish recipients showed larger sales from the facility than what was recorded in the enterprise. We need to bring forward a simplified and transparent regulation in the fisheries sector, and then the response must be strong if fraud is to be detected. It doesn't make sense to me with fines on my own. If you really want to benefit from the reaction, you need to get rid of the fishing rights. If you look cynical about it, there may be a common interest in cheating and being discovered – we can reduce overcapacity by allowing those who cheat to leave the fish for good. The situation that has now come for a day should be the basis for looking closer to today's concession system. Do we have any idea that the concessions are almost assigned in an eternity perspective? Would it give us better control to distribute the concessions before fishing and aquaculture for a limited period of time, let it be possible and the willingness of a resilient management and respect for the conditions to govern whether there is a basis for letting that fisherman or that company get the concession on? In my view, the introduction of a dot tax system is worth doing more closely, so that there are reactions along the way and so that there is a possibility of changing an undesirable management, practice or exploitation of the granted concession or quotas. We need to build a fisheries policy that will ensure that we stay in a long-term perspective, otherwise there will be little cluster building based on the marine sector. Research, research and research. All underline the importance of research in order to get a better overview of the development potential and the extent to which it can be exploited. In this context, the Committee stressed the importance of building a new research ship to replace ‘G’. O. Sars, which is now 30 years old. In view of the importance of the fisheries sector for Norway now and in the future, there is every reason to make progress in this matter. Finally, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to present the Committee's call for the Ministry of Fisheries to take an active part in the establishment of a national museum network for Fisheries Norway. Such a situation today is on the museum side, one could believe that Coast Norway has not contributed to the creation, development and prosperity of our country, in relation to other economic areas, such as the United States. agriculture, oil osb.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1206	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1209	Although this should not be a reprisal to the financial debate, I will first express a wish that cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties should be strengthened in the time to come. There are especially two reasons for that. Firstly, more predictability is needed in policy. In addition, there is a need to take some heavy political promises that require an overall majority to stand behind them. The need for predictability is demonstrated by every budgetary procedure in this House. It concerns both the ordinary budget and the revised budget. The predictability of creating new jobs and securing existing jobs is particularly important. In particular, it concerns SND. The importance of this body — which is our absolute priority in this area — knowing what means it is going to take for more than six months at a time — must be obvious. Not least the rural policy role of the SND indicates this. Equally small as labour market funds should be a balancing object, SND should be. Also in the case of our seafarers, predictability is a keyword. It is therefore very positive that the Government will present an assessment of grant schemes in this area, starting from the fact that Norwegian seafarers will be competitive. Much may suggest that the current grant scheme is not sufficient to ensure it. It is also important that the scheme be as effective as possible so that it has the intended effect. As an agricultural policy spokesman for the Workers' Party, I would like to express my satisfaction that there is still a great deal of agreement on agricultural policy between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties. In my view, it is confirmed by the budgetary procedure, where the Labour Party naturally follows up the agricultural agreement. The fact that the committee leader expressed disappointment that the Workers' Party received subsidiary support from the Right on the agricultural agreement does not change my opinion. Because if in any area there are miles between the Labour Party and the Centre on the one hand and the Advance Party and the Right on the other, it is precisely in agricultural policy. The Progress Party is proposing a cut of a total of SEK 4.1 billion, while the Right proposes a cut of about DKK 1.5 billion. How the same parties should be able to achieve the goal of viable agriculture and viable settlements across the country is a mystery that they themselves do not have the answer to. As far as agriculture is concerned, I am also particularly pleased that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre resulted in the start-up of the Nordic Centre for Agricultural and Inland Fisheries Competence. Of course, the ideal thing would be to create a powerful center with economic muscles from the start. Unfortunately, this could not be done within the framework available. However, the fact that we are now getting to a relatively cautious start-up is with pleasure across the country. The expectations were and are great. The challenges facing Norwegian agriculture will become more and more tactful in the northern part of the country. There's no reason to believe anything else. Competence and cooperation will be key words in order to achieve a positive development. This is primarily what the Centre of Competence should contribute to. And if we are to be able to follow the goal of the majority of the population that North Norway should maintain its relative share of primary production and processing, the continent must adhere to in terms of knowledge and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1227	For the Workers' Party, one of the most important elements in the formulation of industrial policy and the protection of the welfare country is having safe and meaningful jobs. Fisheries already add enormous values to society, despite cheating. However, districts also have a high potential for development both in the fishing industry and in the farming industry, in oil and gas and in IT. Here, too, the Workers' Party will in future be a driving force for a development that will benefit society as a whole, and here we have concrete arrangements aimed at this. The settlement along the whole coast has one thing in common. That's the fish that provides the basis for us to stay there. Fishing activities will be the most important factor in coastal communities. Another area of high development potential is aquaculture and shellfish production. Demand for seafood is growing on the world market. It is then important that Norwegian aquaculture industry is able to meet this market. The public, in cooperation with the industry, has a responsibility to create a framework that provides the industry with development opportunities. Technology, quality and the market currently require considerable competence in both the fishing industry and the aquaculture industry. Competence enhancement will also contribute to status-enhancing. And then we might be able to stop the flow of the thousands of high-educated young people moving from North Norway to enter more challenging professional environments, as the Minister of Industry said. Another area with great potential for growth is travel. More than 100,000 people are employed in this industry, of which a significant proportion are women living in districts. Travel life depends, in particular, on what is happening in the international travel market, and therefore also needs the country’s instruments. Prioritisation of regional and local development, infrastructure, networking, marketing and cross-sectoral cooperation could increase this industry’s value creation in the future. An essential element to be closely followed up is education and research. Many parts of Norway are missing, inter alia: health and safety at work. The need for an upgrade of the education page is clearly present in an increasingly strong international competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1242	The Labour Party will maintain that the different parts of our country have important functions in the national division of labour and are interdependent. By using the entire country's resources, we can ensure access to raw materials, create diversity in business and thus provide a good basis for our common well-being. Therefore, the main features of the housing pattern and the objective of equivalent living conditions must be firm. We want to use the possibilities like, for example, new technologies and knowledge. The Workers' Party will stimulate innovation and creativity. In the development of new activities, we must primarily build on the skills and business environments we already have. An important instrument for innovation and innovation is the State's Enterprise and District Development Fund. Here, an important agreement has been reached between the SND and the Society for Industrial Growth. The task of SIVA is, among other things, the development and long-term ownership and operation of corporate infrastructure for a strong value-added environment. The purpose of this agreement is to improve the performance of the parties in their national innovation efforts, to strengthen regional work, inter alia. developing and exploiting common competences, networks and resources, achieving mutual development of competences and learning through concrete and practical cooperation. The Labour Party has a forward-looking, long-term and creative industrial policy. This is not least reflected in the Government's proposals for a government investment company and for an e-commerce programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1251	Let me first express my joy at the fact that the Storting has rejected the attack on the reimbursement aid which was added to the No. 7 to the State budget. I am also pleased that there is now a call for a follow-up to the decision taken by the Stortinget on 16 June, and I hope that a communication on the framework conditions for maritime industries in general and for seafarers in particular will be presented to the Stortinget during the spring. Otherwise, I'm busy with a little bit of things other than maritime industries, also in this debate, and I want to focus a little bit on the great potential that lies in aquaculture, that more people have had. There we have a very high level of competence and experience in salmon, while we have less competence in shellfish. Shield has a larger yield per. the input unit, in terms of both economic resource and area, than salmon has. So it's necessary to focus on shellfish research, on which of the marine species can live and grow close to each other, and which must be kept separate. We know, among other things: blueshell purifies where salmon contaminates. It may be said that they are complementary to marine ecology, but research in this area, how to use land resources, and how to make the best use of economic resources, and also research into the logistics of the shellfish industry, is very necessary. Then I want to focus a little on the radiation industry in South Norway. We have an average age of Southern Norwegian trawlers over 40 years. It is difficult to recruit to a fleet that is so old and that eventually has such an unsafe and poor operational base. The trawler fleet in South Norway primarily covers species on the basis of which feed is produced for the farming industry. It is therefore a very important part of our fishing fleet that we must not deprioritize. It is now necessary to focus on how to prepare the fisheries operated in South Norway, where traditional fishing is largely based on salmon production with the high value creation potential lying there. These industries are interdependent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1260	I listened to the representative, Mr. Breimo, when, in his three-minute post, he devoted little attention to the agricultural settlement in the spring of 2000. The idea that struck me was that no matter how old the representative Breimo will be, I think he will never forget the agricultural settlement in 2000. I think he felt a certain discomfort at the substitutive vote at the time, and I'm going to remember that in relation to the farming that comes to spring, so that you don't cause any unnecessary suffering. I have a question for the Minister of Industry – whom I asked for the floor – to which she might be able to give an answer. We are now in the situation that the Danes have changed their framework conditions for ferry operations, and the Swedes are doing so. We have two Norwegian ferry companies operating between Norway and, in particular, Denmark, but also England. I have recorded that the Council of State has said that she will look at this. What is the question is when she will go over to the next stage, from looking to possibly doing something, and whether she sees the need to make changes to the framework conditions. I would like to say to the Minister for Fisheries that I am pleased with the answer he gave in his reply. It has never been my opinion – I have never been able to see it this way either – that today's fisheries minister has a special responsibility for what has happened. It has to be divided by a lot of people. In such a context, no one really goes free. However, what is undeniable is that the Council of State is responsible for bringing this to an end. We have a common responsibility for that. I think we all feel that what needs to be done here is to safeguard the general interest of the fishermen, the fishing industry and the coastal population. Yeah, that's all Norway's reputation it can be on in the end. I don't think anything would please the fishermen and the fishing industry more than that one could say that now it's untied away. I think we'd all be good at that. But in any case, I think a round in the Stortinget on this is absolutely necessary in addition to any concrete measures that have already been proposed and will be proposed. So I really thank you for meeting the demand for a statement from the pulpit of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1269	It looks like we have a big contest in black paint in terms of irregularities in the fishing industry, as I experience parts of the debate. I would like to draw attention to the fact that if you took a simple calculation and combined the increase in quotas in addition to what has been the recommendations of the researchers in recent years, and what some claim is overfishing, we would have cleared up the entire cod population in the last five years. Those who are in the industry know that that of course is not the case. Gypsies, also according to researchers, continue to increase. The Barent Sea is in good balance. Lodda is in good condition and provides a good grazing basis for several species of fish, including in particular cod. For the purpose of measuring allowances for weights to be landed, account has also been taken of the fact that there is to be food both for cod and for sales, etc., before fixing the final quota. Clearly, we should take them as cheats, but we cannot stamp an entire diet. It's kind of like stamping the whole size of the prom if one is taken for prom drive, and we can't have such conditions. In all industries there are both white and black sheep, you can see that by just following in the newspapers, and we don't have to go further into such a debate. But we must agree that the objective must be that the risk of being taken must be so great and the punishment so severe that no one takes the chance of cheating. These measures may be, as some have said, the loss of fishing rights. It is that, in most cases, there must be two parties to cheat, and then, of course, licenses can be in danger, etc. But I look forward to the measures that the Minister for Fisheries will take if not for very long. There's a different situation in all of this, and there's today's legislation on the practice of fishing. I would say that the measures that are coming must not be of such a nature that it does not allow legitimate fishing. It's not always the fish you think you get when you put use and tools in the ocean. The legislation is difficult enough today. We must not create lawbreakers by serious professionals. It seems to me that some organisations have to operate crisis maximisation in order to justify their own justification. It may also appear that some wholesalers follow the same recipe. But it won't serve the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1283	I've got two questions. One was from the representative, Stolt-Nielsen. It seemed to her post that the ministry has proposed a reduction in the reimbursement scheme for the seafarers. That's not right. What is right is that a review showed that some of the ships do not have transport as their main activity. They have something else as their main activity that is not covered by the scheme. That's why we went through the arrangement and took out those that actually shouldn't be there. However, the Committee has now said that we should not have this certainty at present, so that the system will still apply to those ships which do not have transport as their main activity until revised. Of course, I take note of that and will come back with a more thorough review – because nothing has come up here that we should change the rules of the reimbursement scheme. I will also come back to other matters that Stolt-Nielsen was involved in, in particular, our short sea shipping. It now has a threat of many bankruptcies hanging over it. It's an old fleet. But we can't wait until we make a message. Because we've now added, with the new maritime group that we've established, to go in with interim reports, because part of this industry can't actually be seen together. Different arrangements may need to be made. We see that the short sea shipping, which Stolt-Nielsen also works for, should receive tax credits, is not in a tax position, so they do not benefit from those tax credits. Then we have to find out other arrangements that are accurate to them. That's what we're trying to do now by establishing a group that can just go into and look at those conditions, so that we can solve it. We also know that in the fierce, tough competition we see outside of us, the important competitive advantages for Norwegian shipping will be competence, quality, safety and the environment. We also know from what has been reported by the Norwegian School of Economics that this industry is putting too little emphasis on competence. It has to change, and we have to be involved and contribute to that change. As for the question from Gabrielsen, it's quite right that I've had rounds with Color Line, I'll do the same with Fjord Line, and I'll now present this matter to the Government in the near future. Therefore, I cannot point out any action that would be necessary. It's not just about the Danes, and the Swedes are also now considering changing their system, it's also about getting tougher competition compared to all our port calls. It's an additional challenge for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1292	I have a explanation of vote on behalf of the centre parties, but first of all, a few comments – first of all, that we have a premise on animal health in relation to other countries and that we are all pleased with. The main reason for this is that, unlike other countries, we haven't dealt with animals until the Workers' Party and the Right a few years ago said that's what we're going to do. My uncertainty about whether we really have that leap is related to the animals that we've gotten into at this time. I hope there's an extra attention to the health status of the herds that got those animals in. The representative Gunnar Breimo said that the agricultural policy of the Right is ‘milewise’ from the Labour Party. That's what I meant. But it was the Workers' Party itself who chose the Right as a partner, and who said it was okay for us to turn the policy in the Right direction instead of towards the Centre. It was a hard blow for Norwegian agriculture - and it was also for the Labour Party's credibility in terms of agricultural policy, in relation to the centre. It's a fact that we just have to live with. So to the proposals that have been put forward. Mr Andersen has tabled several proposals. I hope that they will be sent to the Government without a trial of reality, so that we do not vote them down, because a number of the things that stand here, have previously been said by the Storting, said earlier by a committee, without me thinking it is necessary that we make a decision on it. Then it's Gabrielsen's proposal on Telenor shares. We will vote against that. For my part, I would like to say that I am concerned that we are going to have more private savings on the stock market, and I am very disappointed that when selling the Telenor shares it was not non-discriminatory, that it was not given the same information at the same time, and correct information to the small shareholders as to the large ones. It should have been possible to do that. It has to be a minimum if you first want to encourage the purchase, and at least if you call it a public share, that there is no disclosure of a different price to the private than to the large institutions. Otherwise, as one has been in the past, it is now asking whether it has actually been given incorrect information to many of the others. That's what I hope to be examined by the stock exchange, that one comes to the bottom of it, because it shouldn't be Telenor that the company should be familiar with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1305	I have to repeat what I said in the financial debate, that according to the negotiated assumptions underlying the reimbursement support, there was no requirement for the ship to carry cargo – not at all. The guidelines for the reimbursement aid are based on the points on which all three parties agreed, according to the record dated 14 February 1994. There is nothing here about ships carrying cargo. On the other hand, what the 1994 agreement says is that the Government undertakes to go in with 340 million. kr. When the 2001 government will reduce the already reduced amount, down to 290 million. So it's $50 million. kr below what was the entry package in 1994. During the same period, companies have significantly increased their efforts, so there is no doubt that the social partners have delivered, and so on, in relation to the commitments they assumed, while the country has reduced its obligations. It's not going to pass; the numbers can't be explained out. As far as competence is concerned, it is clear that we in maritime industries need competence across a wide range. One needs competence in the associated industries on land, and one needs top-notch competence at sea. That there is a potential for improvement in the skills of the associated industries on land that do not have a direct seafaring connection, I do not doubt for a moment, but Norway has very high competence on its sea officers and its seafarers, nor is there any doubt. If you want a few tips, you have to have the width. That's why it's worrying when we now see these shocks that are given to the industry every six months, when an attack on the reimbursement support of seafarers. It's choking the effect of the recruitment campaign that was in place, and that everyone had joined. One sees that the industry no longer manages to take away the apprentices, because the overall change in the framework conditions, with reduced reimbursement aid and increased fleet charges, no longer allows it to be realised within a competitive framework. I am also pleased that the Council of State will provide interim reports, because what we have just requested is competitively correct measures for the different fleet types.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1316	It is a reality in R & D activities that there are some in the maritime industry that are active in R & D activities, but the overall picture is very poor. There's also some reason why the maritime group has concentrated on it. I do not believe that there are any individual industries that are good at research and development and that they take their competence very seriously. But the general picture needs to be changed, and the industry also needs to move in, in line with the research reports that they include. I have ordered myself. As far as the reimbursement system is concerned, as I said, I come back with a concrete statement, but we have not interpreted it by the department so that the boat that is completely at ease with seismics will also come under the same scheme. So I take note that we are going to come back to that arrangement in the revised national budget. So there's a response to Morten Lund regarding information related to Telenor's issue. We went out with a very broad campaign to make it a crowd. In connection with the last public stock, when we were dealing with the credit fund, we got 17 000. Now we've got over 53,000. We are very pleased with that. With regard to the next last day – really the last day – Thursday, when we had come so far that we would like to go for a round and also use Friday, there was a big difference between going out with information to 53,000 people and going out to the few hundred who were investors. We would also have a responsibility to go out with information to the entire EEA area, while we would have a very concrete practical problem dealing with being registered at Oslo Stock Exchange from Monday morning. So there were both legal, formal and practical considerations, but the overwhelming thing was that we actually had practical problems implementing just that on Friday. But beyond that, this is a broader campaign than we've ever gone out with, precisely because everyone should be really informed about both the disadvantages and the benefits of drawing shares, and to the greatest extent about the uncertainty that leads to being on the stock exchange, for some people each.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1325	Inger Stolt-Nielsen has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1328	I can't help noticing that the Council of State, which calls for point competence, will put outside those seafarers who have competence that goes beyond the ordinary certificates of navigation. Those operating these special ships have additional training which goes beyond the usual maritime certificates. It is a costly additional training, which is partly paid by the seafarers themselves in some shipping companies; other shipping companies have cost the entire training. Then it's very strange that it's those who have the tipping skills, the government tried to put outside, by shutting out this entire fleet group. There will be a mismatch between the demand for point competence and the way in which a person deals with competence. But it has its parallel when someone now asks for patient, long-term, risk capital, how risk-taking means that one should be willing to risk loss, but not have the chance of profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1347	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1361	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1375	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1389	The communication we are discussing today is an overview of the fisheries agreements we have concluded with other central fishing nations. The aim of these agreements is to establish a fair balance in all fisheries. The fishing resources represent the most important resource we have, and are a valuable part of the natural base on which the Norwegian society is based. The value creation based on fisheries resources is increasing, and we want this to continue. Good resource management is a prerequisite for such development. Of course, this also applies to other coastal countries where fishing is an essential part of the nutritional basis. In order to ensure positive development also for the future, Norway has to impose strict requirements on the documentation of the status of fish stocks. Norway is one of the world’s most resourced countries in marine research and population surveys. This is also the responsibility of Norway to follow up on the fisheries agreements we conclude with other countries. The Committee believes that we have the knowledge and the fisheries policy that Stortinget, among other things, has entered St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, is a good starting point for the negotiations and decisions to be taken on behalf of Norway in the international context. The Committee is concerned about the situation of several populations. In the light of the agreements previously concluded with other countries, the Committee considers that the conservation and reconstruction of several important stocks must be a major factor in future fisheries negotiations. Norway has to work hard to accept the priority of resource building. This also calls for increased attention and cooperation in areas such as monitoring and control. The size has also said in the past that increasing the clarity and security of stock estimates must be a priority task, which will improve the planning framework for operators in the industry, while improving resource management. Another aspect of the size of the population has been underlined is that some populations have had too large withdrawals, so that several important populations cannot provide optimal resource harvests. The policy underpinning fisheries cooperation must be such that the management of fisheries resources must take place within a sustainable framework. A central part of the Norwegian control and enforcement system is physical control of all fishing activities. Cooperation on control of the resource take-off of common fish stocks has been undertaken with several important fishing nations. In recent years, Norwegian authorities have introduced a number of measures to attack illegal and unregulated fishing. Following recent evidence of fish fraud, it is essential to follow up on this as outlined by the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1410	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1423	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1455	I would ask the SV's group to vote against all minority proposals included in the vote and for the majority frames. With regard to my own proposals, I have been invited to turn them into a transmission proposal. I don't think I can do that. On the other hand, I intend to draw the proposals No. 17, 18 and 19. They will meet Stortinget again as Document No. Eight proposals. The other proposals are directly quoted from what is in the vote, and it is remarkable that the Stortinget cannot join them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1462	The President will first take the minority proposals up to voting time. The proposal for a decision under the Framework Areas 9, 10 and 11 shall then be put to the vote and the proposal for a decision outside the Framework Areas shall be put to the vote. The President shall start with proposal No. 12, from Left: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case to the Storting on how the State can contribute to strengthening access to risk capital in the innovative research-based industry. The possibility of setting up funds or commercialisation companies within the strategic areas of the Research Communication in an interaction between State and private capital, localised regional or national, needs to be assessed in this context.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1476	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 14–16, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for action against environmental crime, illegal fishing and the placing on the market of fish.’ Proposal No 15 reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that future fishing quotas be set by the Government on the basis of the recommendations of the researchers.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for measures that will balance the fleet with the resource base.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1500	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7-11 and Nos. 13 from the right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to sell the remaining shares of Arcus AS’. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The decision requires the Government to liquidate SND Invest’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘1. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the Breeding Act in order to replace the existing concession schemes for the breeding of trout, shellfish and marine fish with an approval code setting out environmental, animal health and competence requirements.2. The Government requests the extension of the concession volume for salmon and trout concessions from 12000 to 18000 m3.3. The size requests the Government to extend the feed quotas for existing farms in parallel with the allocation of new salmon concessions.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 8.2.2a of the Tax Act so that the tax advantage of the Forest Tax Scheme is removed and the tax advantage increased to 50 pst.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the sale of parts of the SF’s productive coniferous forests.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the future sale of State shares in Telenor ASA to include a preference and discount scheme for household customers.’ The President has understood that the Progress Party will support these proposals – it is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1548	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5 and 6 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the level of support for the reimbursement scheme for seafarers to 20 pst. of gross wage and salary costs and include Norwegian foreign ferry companies, bow loads for the transport of crude oil and training positions in NIS in the scheme.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the winding-up of concessional limits granted under the Law on Acquired Livestock.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1569	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-4, from the Advance Party and the Right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to adapt the fee revenue to the operation of the Brønn Island Health Registers by incorporating the level of fees in line with the principle of self-financing over a 2-year period for the budgets of 2002 and 2003 in order to accommodate industry in the form of reduced fees.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission by the Government of a case concerning the introduction of tax incentives for business-led research in line with the multiple proposal in the Hervik selection’.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a degressive plan for the state’s interests in the Norwegian business community. The proposal should include a decommissioning plan for all enterprises in which the State holds interests, where appropriate an assessment of the specific considerations that should remain State ownership.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e1595	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a plan for the sale of the State’s holdings in NOAH AS.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e4875	The President has understood that the Progress Party and the Right will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e4911	The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind the second position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e5224	The President has understood that the Party of Advancement and the Right will vote against the Cape. 943 and cap. 966 under I – it is confirmed. So it's going to be over these chapters first, then over the remaining chapters and Roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-06.ana.ud510e5632	There is no record.
