ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e125	The representative Steinar Bastisen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e128	I would like to put forward a proposal for the examination of a legislative proposal on protection in and at sea areas and the implementation of provisions on the impact of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e133	The representative of May Britt Vihovde will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e136	On behalf of Jorunn Ringstad, Jan Sahl and myself, I would like to propose that the fire and rescue services at the Aviation Training Centre be co-located with the Norwegian Fire School.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e141	Olav Gunnar Ballo will make two private proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e144	I would like to propose that amendments to the 2000 budget be adopted. 2790, Item 72, Health treatment abroad, can be disposed of under certain conditions for medical treatment in Norway. Furthermore, I would like to propose the regulation of legal rights for transsexuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e151	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1-6 is dealt with as a whole – and considers this to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e210	There are no limits to the way in which the debate is conducted other than those mentioned in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e213	It has not been common that there has been much discussion related to what is case no. 1 on today's agenda, re-balancing of the current year's budget. It's too bad, because there's a lot of numbers there, and the new age says a lot about how economic governance has been during the year that's about to end. This time, there's also a lot of movement. There's an increase of NOK 6 billion when we keep the extra funding for the Gardermoban and increased interest outside. It refers in part to the changes made in the revised budget and contained therein, but also to the measures subsequently taken to compensate municipalities for provisions on the basis of extended holidays and the particularly good pay structure for teachers. In addition, there are also significant amounts of money as a result of the growth in the expenditure of the population. We have reduced revenues because income from the sale of bank shares is only booked until next year, but on the other hand we also have large increases in income. The tax estimate will be increased by 17.2 billion kroner. That's a huge amount, and some people might wonder why in the world we have to keep the levels we have on taxes and charges in Norway. But the reason why the revenue has increased is not that the tax or tax system has changed, but that we have received more money than calculated with the rates and levels that we have. This is partly due to the fact that the 1999 accounts were higher than we expected when we dealt with the national budget for 2000, i.e. that the year’s entry was higher than calculated, partly because the result for the 1999 payables equation was the same, i.e. that it was higher than the estimated and income this year, and – not least – because the price and salary developments this year have been slightly higher than what was assumed. Of course, when wages and salaries increase, tax revenue also increases. The sum total ends this time with our strengthening of the budget balance by DKK 3.8 billion, that is. that the oil-corrected deficit is reduced by DKK 3.8 billion. Last year, when we discussed the ejaculation, it was the other way around. Then it was a crack. There was an increase in the use of oil money of NOK 5.1 billion. In the new age this year, we see that the underlying expenditure growth, which was calculated at 2 1⁄2 pst., can now be calculated at 2 1⁄4 pst. expenditure growth is slightly reduced. This means that the difference in relation to last year’s debate – as there were quite a number of who made contributions to the ageing process for once – is quite considerable. Last year, a clear majority in Stortinget was critical of the Government’s new aging proposition, partly because the government’s annual management had reduced the tightening effect of the budget from 1 pst. to 1⁄2 p.m., partly because the underlying expenditure growth increased from 1 to 2 p.m., and partly because, in the view of many, the new aging was used to fill in what had not been achieved for the following year’s budget. It was in this area that the strongest criticism came. Both the representative Foss, the representative Hill-Marta Solberg and others were in their speeches last year on the importance this had for the implementation of the adopted budgetary reform of 1997, and there were quite correct and timely comments. For the purpose of the accountability underpinned by the budgetary reform as we are now doing it must be realistic, of course, assuming that we do not use the new age to fill what we were unable to find in the ordinary budgetary procedure. So this year we have kept a neutral budget, as adopted. Underlying expenditure growth has been reduced, and in recent years there is no attempt to fill what was not allocated to the ordinary 2000 budgetary procedure, i.e. to look at appropriations made transferable, in order to get around the tight budgetary frameworks to which negotiations are trying to deal. There's a comment in the setting that could indicate the opposite. This concerns the Air Force and the 123 million allocation. NOK for the purchase of fuel, which we buy from our allies. But there will be a totally wrong comparison, because it is actually an allocation for the current year, it is an allocation used in the current year, and it is an allocation that was planned and would come independently of the adopted budget for 2001. There are two exceptions to the budget this time. One is what the Government proposed in the case of the use of non-used funds for the construction of new research ships. A majority proposes that the appropriations be made available. But this is an item that is transferable, and everyone is aware that that amount is not going to be used in the current year. The second is the much-mentioned item relating to operations abroad. At the time this was discussed, there were quite a number of people who realized that the funds could not be used in full by the year 2000, as estimates in the accounts also show. These means have been made transferable. However, at least this time it is such that no new measures and proposals for appropriations have been submitted by the Government in the case of a new ageing process, followed by the comment ‘can be transferred’. As I said, I agree that there was a lot of criticism against the round we had in the effusion last year. When you have it as a background, there is reason to pay tribute to the Government for both the implementation of the economic structure and the effusion and the proposition, as it now exists. Had it been the same government that had so much difference from the proposal last year to the proposal this year, I would congratulate the development. The main explanation of the more solid new-age proposition that we have this year is probably that we have replaced the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e234	The 1999 credit notification provides a good overview of the situation of financial institutions, the securities trading situation in 1999, the competitive situation of the local services pension market, the activities of the Banking Authority and the operations of Norway Bank, the State Bank Insurance Fund and the State Bank Investment Fund. The Committee has taken most of these information for information without having any further comments. There are a few areas I would like to mention in this article: the first is competition for community service pension schemes. I have noticed that, on a general basis, the Ministry attaches great importance to adequate competition in all parts of the insurance market and that a well-functioning market should also be ensured for municipal service pension schemes, taking into account the main tariff agreement. A particular relationship with municipal pension schemes is the transfer agreement. I have noticed that the transfer selection was reduced in February 1999 to review different aspects of this agreement. One of the primary tasks of this selection has been to set the criteria for who can join the transfer agreement. I expect the department to review the transfer selection settings and give feedback to Stortinget as soon as possible for the actions to be taken in this context. The area to which the Committee has concentrated in this Recommendation is the follow-up to the Competition Surface Selection. There is a joint committee that considers financial industry to be a very important industry in itself, which at the same time has much to say for the development of business in general. No one has noticed that the structure of the Norwegian financial industry is changing rapidly, and that some financial institutions operating in Norway in recent years have been subsidiaries or branches of foreign financial institutions. This, in the Committee's view, underlines the importance of following up the Hope Selection's recommendations. That the committee is so clever in its comments on this is probably also due to the collusion of the Hope Committee's recommendations. The rule of law and framework conditions for the financial industries in Norway must be consistent with those in other countries and, in particular, with the countries with which they compete most. This is also reflected in the comments of the Committee. I do not want to mention that the specific areas to which the Committee or the majority of the Committee has referred, as it has, of course, the Ministry of Finance. It may be a little special that the Committee is so concrete in its comments in individual areas, but the Ministry has to take this as an expression of the commitment of the Committee in order to establish legislation and arrangements for this industry, which allows the financial industries to develop further and to carry out the important function it has in our society. The operation of Norway Bank has received a comprehensive and transparent review of this message. The Committee shall take this information for information purposes. There are two areas of administrative scope which can be identified. One is that the Royal Coin is separated as a limited liability company under Norway's Bank. The Bank's notice of 5 September 2000 states that the conversion takes place on the basis of the fact that the Royal Coin has had a high commercial activity over the last ten years in addition to the production of coins, and therefore it was natural that this was separated as a company owned by Norway Bank. This was also mentioned in the Stortinge in ours. I mean to think it was in connection with the revised national budget. The second area in administrative context is a new departmental structure where one of Norway's Bank's banks has decided to close some departments. These departments will be wound up in the first half of 2001. These are administrative changes that Norway Bank itself is responsible for implementing. When it comes to the operation of Noregs Bank, I see the annual report of Noregs Bank, which provides an additional review of the operation. In addition, I would like to point out to Norway Bank its work on limiting the risk of problems associated with payment systems. Norway’s Bank has been given greater power to ensure that payment systems are organised in such a way as to ensure that financial stability is maintained by the law on payment systems, which was annexed to the Storting last year. Norway Bank has responsibility for the licensing and supervision of the establishment and operation of interbank systems, which are systems based on a joint agreement for the settlement, supply or transfer of money between credit institutions. The message has done some good for the work on means of payment and payment. The same is true of the Bank's tasks as advisers in monetary, credit and currency policy and the statistical work and control tasks carried out by the Bank. I would like to recommend the setting from the committee. So a few comments related to case no. 1st@item: inlistbox In her review, the committee leader made a point of the difference between the new aging last year and the new aging this year. I believe that the difference can be relatively easily reduced to the difference in the price of oil last year and this year. This explains a lot of the big changes that exist between these two new age settings and settings. So there's an area that I want to talk about a little bit, and it was also the committee leader inside. This applies to the Committee's observations on pages 11 and 12 in the case of fishing research and the construction of a new marine research vessel. The Committee here refers to what a collective church, education and research committee said. Citation: ‘... the construction of G.O. is essential for fisheries research. Sars shall not be exposed.» They also said, ‘Any delay is unlikely to result in a total savings’. When there is a joint research committee that says this, and a majority of the financial committee now repeats it and wants the amount to stand, it is precisely so as not to deter the possibility of contracting in the existing bidding round. We did not find it necessary to order the Government to sign a contract, but they now have the right to do so, and I ask them to bear in mind that it is a strong wish that this project be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e266	Dag Terje Andersen has asked for the word out of the way to make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e269	Thank you for that, President. It's really not that I've asked for it, but I've been strongly encouraged to take the word. That's why I'm going to deal with the minority proposal that's in the new age setting, the minority proposal that's just about the topic that the representative Lie was now dealing with related to the research ship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e274	Language is like this in the house, that's how it turned out now. Although it is quite true that Dag Terje Andersen was strongly encouraged to present his proposal, he has thus asked in the big language ‘to get the word’. Day Terje Andersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e279	The Progress Party was part of the Committee majority which, in its report of the Hope Committee in the setting up of the revised National Budget 2000, stressed the importance of follow-up to the recommendations of the sample as soon as possible, as asked by the Government to give top priority to the work of the Competition Board report, and also asked the Government, by the end of 2001, to present a statement on the changes of rules and progress in its work on the report. No such statement was made in the national budget, but the brief presentation in the credit notification shows that, after the revision of the national budget, only one rule change has been made that could be linked to the follow-up to the Competition Board report. Both the scope and the content of the report are disappointing in the view of the Progress Party, and show that the ministry's statements in the credit statement that the Ministry focuses on rapid follow-up, and that the work is given high priority in the ministry, are, to say the least, extremely cautious, somewhat exaggerated. The Progress Party has therefore seen the need, together with the Right, to propose that the Government present cases in four different areas during March 2001. The EU has set 2005 as a deadline for the creation of a more integrated financial market in Europe and has made a comprehensive action plan of more than 40 points, which will bring about major changes in existing EU legislation, or new legislation. This has been done in order to reduce existing barriers to cross-border activities while respecting consumer concerns. It is appropriate to allow this activity to take place to a greater extent on the basis of the rules of the home Member State. The probability suggests that within a short time, as much as one third of the Norwegian banking market will be covered by institutions anchored in the international financial group. They will be able to adapt their activities to non-Norwegian framework conditions and supervision. The Progress Party therefore considers that it is necessary to adapt Norwegian legislation and supervisory practices as quickly as possible to what is common in other EEA countries, in order to allow Norwegian-based funding to be competitive in an increasingly competitive international competition market. So some brief comments on case No. 6 on the agenda. Document No 8:25 is a proposal to instruct the Equation Offices to set an Equation Rate on Housing for a maximum of 30 pst. of technical value or observable market price. The background to the proposal is the current system of taxation, which provides for large and arbitrary differences in the rate of equation, even for similar dwellings within the same residential area, and that, by increasing the basis of the rate as a result of a percentage estimate, injustice is further increased. The majority of the Committee refers to letters from the Minister of Finance, including: states that the Ministry of Finance is working on the follow-up to the Storting decision on new taxation rules but has not yet taken a decision on the new rules. The majority recommended that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. The minority, the Progress Party, the Right and the representative of Bastesen agree with the opinions of the proposers and recommend the adoption of the proposal. I allow myself to include the minority proposal in the vote on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e305	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e308	The temperature in the Norwegian economy has remained high throughout the year. That is why it is good that budgetary policy has been maintained through the financial year, that we have been dealing with a neutral budget, and that this is also the result that we now have on the table today. But it seems that today's high oil revenues cover most underlying weaknesses in the Norwegian economy, while creating unrealistic expectations about what oil money can accomplish. As world trade grows by 13-14 pst. this year, exports from the Norwegian mainland are likely to increase by only 4 pst. in volume. The result is the loss of market shares. Exports from mainland Norway have an increase, but the volume increase is not in line with the increase in world trade, showing estimates from the Council of Exports that have now arrived. In particular, stagnation in exports of technology products for the second year is a matter of concern. And we know that in the European context, Norway is completely at the bottom. While this share of total exports now accounts for nearly 50 pst. in Sweden and Finland, it is 10 pst. in Norway. It's jumbo space, and of course this has to do something about it. Our competitive sector has a weaker market development than in other countries, and next year may be even more difficult for Norway. These underlying problems have not been addressed by the Government. As the Government itself writes in St. pp. No 32: ‘The improvement in the budgetary balance sheet is mainly attributable to SEK 17.2 billion in increased tax and tax allocations since the budgetary clearance.’ Now taxes and charges are 48 pst. of the economy of mainland Norway. We are at the top of Europe, together with others. Sweden. I think in the years to come, it's the big challenge if we're going to be able to keep the growth force in the Norwegian economy. We have to do something about structural policy. Of course, it's important that we manage to keep a neutral budget, but taking the economics tighter by increasing taxes and taxes, which the majority have also chosen for next year, is the wrong strategy. Supply and structural policies need to be addressed, labour supply increased and public sector efficiency increased. Private sector tightening when we see market shares and the competitiveness of the private sector weakening for the third consecutive year is the wrong strategy. In Stortinget, we talk very nicely about the neutral budget, and the committee leader is very pleased that the government managed to maintain neutrality, but I did not hear one word about Norway's export share increasing less than in Europe, and that the share of high-tech exports falls sharply. What strategy does the Government have to meet the kind of challenges that will weaken our welfare base in the longer term? It might be interesting to hear something more about. In the case of case No. 6, which is about housing taxes, I am very disappointed that the majority are not willing to create a safety valve for those who are being treated very unfairly in the current housing tax system. In the spring of 1997, when Stortinget examined proposals for a new housing tax system, it was the intention of the then government to base the new tax system for the 2000 Equation Year. The reason why there was a hurry to get a new tax system in place was as the committee wrote in Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97: ‘The majority indicate that there is therefore an urgent need to clarify the tariff base so that similar dwellings across the country are valued somewhat equally. Today's taxiing system is highly unsatisfactory and must be replaced by a better system.» It was an arbitrary system, where equal dwellings were treated differently within the same residential area. What has happened since the Stortinge came up with this setting in the spring of 1997? Well, the tariff base has increased further, so that the inequalities have also increased. It is a difficult task to create a new and fair tax system. From the Right, we have been in favour of abolishing the benefit tax by living in an owner-occupied dwelling, and I have to say that I am very surprised and disappointed that, after post-yearly exposure to this, there is no willingness to enter a small safety valve, that no one should have a tariff base exceeding 30 pst. the market value. We have seen examples, for example: on the NRK in the fall, which shows that an apartment in Trygstad may have a tariff of 130 pst. of the market value of the apartment, while we see other examples with a tariff base of 10 pst. of the real value. Why isn't the majority willing to say at least that no one should have an equation rate exceeding 30 pst. of the market value, until we have a new tariff base in place? It is as simple as voting in favour of the proposal here on an instruction to the Equation Offices, so that you can have a right to appeal. I can't believe and understand that the bulk of the population with open eyes wants to maintain a system where identical dwellings are treated differently within the same residential area. Performance must have been achieved in this case when one now refuses to submit for such a cautious proposal, a safety valve, pending the new taxiing system. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the proposal behind the Left and Christian People's Party, which has been endorsed by the Advance Party and the Right, that the Government is given a deadline to submit a new housing tax system. I think it is a sensible proposal, and therefore I am surprised that no more could join it. It's okay to get a new housing tax system proposed by the Government before the elections, so that you know what you're dealing with, and so that we can get a real discussion about it in Stortinget during the spring. The fact that the centre party has obviously jumped off from the proposals of the other two centre parties, I think it is disappointing, because if the centre party had not done so, there would have been a majority in Stortingen to get a new tax system in place before the election. In any case, the state council may come with the housing tax system anyway – of course it is hoped – so that we can see the cards and get a fairer tax system in place. But I would warn you against thinking that through a millimeter justice and Lundtigen model, you can solve all the problems that lie in today's housing tax system. The easiest thing is, of course, to abolish the entire unreasonable tax burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e339	I noticed that the committee's head said that the effusion was primarily an expression of the financial management of the ministry and government, and that it had now become significantly better since the last government we had, because it now shows a significant plus, while the last one showed a significant minus. This is, to put it mildly, a significant exaggeration, and that is not what this matter is really about. What the recent ageing shows is that the situation in the Norwegian economy is very good. So we have increased revenue from the oil and gas sector only in the form of taxes and charges of over NOK 26 billion, and in addition we have increased income from mainland Norway, including in the form of taxes and taxes, of NOK 17 billion. So we've got 43 billion extra dollars from the same tax and tax regime during the year we're in. That means, and it's a good thing, that Norwegian economy is going well. We have a high level of activity in the economy, and most people are fairly good at it. But what this shows is that a couple of the big challenges facing the Norwegian economy, the wealth of money that we have, are, of course, the ones that, to the seventh and last of all, are actually a problem, because we can't spend this money in the Norwegian economy if we don't want to get too high, as it's called. And one of the biggest challenges we're facing is how we're going to get more available hands to work, so that more of this money can be phased into the Norwegian economy to create well-being, so we don't have to put so much money into foreign bank accounts. So the main challenges of this government, from the point of view of SV, are: how do we make sure that many of those who do not have work today get work? And how do we ensure that many of those currently underemployed get more employment? How do we manage to free resources at all, either through labour immigration, to the extent that Norway can absorb it, or otherwise ensure that we are able to meet the major welfare reforms adopted by the Stortinge? The problem is not little money; on the contrary, the problem is too few hands, and it is a much bigger problem, which I hope the Ministry of Finance and the Government are taking seriously. The new age at least shows that the wealth of money is great. Only in one year, as I said, there's another NOK 43 billion in addition to the large revenues coming from oil, outside this budget. And it shows first and foremost one thing, that financial management as a concept is very difficult. Here, almost all of the items on the tax and tax estimates have changed in relation to what was the government's estimate, so it's a good thing to take a little too fully to say that this has something to do with financial management. This is primarily about a high dollar price and a high commodity price on oil, which the Committee's member Lars Gunnar Lie was also involved in. Mostly because of the additional 26 billion kroner we have received from the oil sector, precisely these two individual circumstances. What I also see as evidence is that we have an unwarrantedly high rate of oil extraction, on which, for economic reasons and not least, we should have slacked down. Because when this high rate of oil extraction with the high oil price we have contributes so much to the pressure in the Norwegian economy, it is in itself a very unhealthy thing. It is now recently said from the Statistical Central Bureau that one of the reasons why the Norwegian economy was lagging behind just a few years ago was that we had an investment level in the oil sector of over SEK 70 billion in a year. Oil extraction rates and investment rates are very closely linked so that a lower rate of oil extraction will also contribute to a lower rate of investment, which would be very healthy for the Norwegian mainland economy. Let me just also link a few comments to the credit notification, and touch on one point that the few others have affected, namely the sale of DnB shares, which the Stortinget has previously decided. What has happened this year is that Norway has become a branch country to a greater extent than before, and it is sad. Especially of the credit institutions, we now have only one big commercial bank left, and that's DnB. Last night the approved department, as I understand it, Merita's sale of the credit fund, which makes us once again a branch country for a large credit institution. In the past, Focus Bank has also been sold abroad, which in my opinion has also been a tragedy for Norway. This means that the shares owned by the State in DnB should be held by the State. This is a sensible money placement, but also a sensible way to ensure that the head office and the glory to come remains in Norway. The credit fund was therefore sold abroad, in this case to a Swedish-Finnish bank – without the bank being sold at all. So it was a Swedish-Finnish bank that simply submitted a bid to a bank that was not for sale, and the bulk of the money was thus put to the knees of a tempting bid. This makes me very worried, because it could mean in the next round that just some foreign institution comes and cities at DnB, and the bulk of the population here would also say that this bank is for sale -- let's just sell it out. So financial institutions are not ordinary sausage arches. It is important for a nation to have nationally anchored financial institutions. And to the extent that we had private capitalists who could have played this role, so much for me, but we don't, and that's why the state has to play that role to ensure a national ownership of large credit institutions. SV therefore does not want the DnB to be sold. We want DnB to remain on the government's hands as a standard commercial commercial bank with long-term secure ownership managed by the state. DnB can act commercially today in exactly the same way as any other institution, but it has the long-termity of its share structure that SV believes makes sense. I would also like to make a few comments on ‘G. O. Sars, which has been visited by more people. ‘G. O. Sars’ is an important research vessel, which must be built. This should have been realized a long time ago. For various reasons, this has not been done. This is important both for Norwegian maritime research and for the environments we have in maritime research in the various university and research institutions. The transferability of this appropriation is important, but it is particularly important that the Ministry now conclude a contract relating to the construction of ‘G’. O. Sars, because that's what's most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e366	I had not intended to take a line at all on Mr. Deep pedal. But I became very curious when he said in his post that the sale of Focus Bank has been a tragedy for Norway. I wonder if the representative of Djupedal can explain the tragic consequences for Norway that Focus Bank has acquired a Danish owner, has still had its head office in Trondheim, has expanded as an important commercial bank and has increased competition in the Norwegian market. I would also like to ask the representative, Mr. Djupedal, whether he is not a little concerned about an inflation of the term «tragedie» through his comment. What vocabulary, then, will he reserve for the truly tragic events?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e371	I think it is a tragedy that this rich, diverse country we have is being tapped for important head office functions in important business activities, including banking and finance. Three years ago, there was a Consensus Magnification that meant that we would have three different business banking environments, one even located outside Oslo. We've had Focus Bank in Trondheim, and we've had DnB and the Bank of Credit here in Oslo. After that time, the bulk of the population has been reunited. First, we sold Focus Bank to the Danish Bank, which means that Trondheim no longer has the head office of an important financial institution, but on the contrary has a branch of a Danish bank. Then – as I was in my main post – we sold the credit card, which now made the credit card a branch of another Nordic bank. The only thing we have left in the business banking structure of banks of a small size is DnB. What has happened after the Danish Bank took over Focus Bank, is that Focus Bank is now down-staffing in Trondheim, which is because the head office in Denmark believes that the result is too bad. That means we're getting a slowdown of this for the Middle Norway important bank and of all the functions it fills. For it kind of fills a function where the credit fund and DnB are not as strong. Although Børge Burnde does not like the word tragedy, I must say that I think this is a tragedy. But what is primarily tragic is that this is just one example of a development over time, where Norway loses more and more of its important industrial and business locomotives, which are bought up by foreigners and moved out. Then we're left here, without having the important decision-making structures in Norway. This is a development that should worry much more than SV, because it's actually a tragic development. Since we're discussing banking and finance right now, this has been the topic. But if we look at what has happened in Norwegian business only in the last year, we will see that Norway is increasingly becoming a branch country. The last example was that Pharma, who has been a Norwegian pharmaceutical locomotive for years, is now allowed, through the concession provisions we have, to move the head office away from Oslo. So once again we get a clean factory in Norway – for a few years, until it is moved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e384	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e387	I'd like to start there where the previous speaker was relaxed. It concerns the construction of ‘G.O. Sars’» In the view of the Left, it is very important that the construction of this marine research vessel is now under way as soon as possible. After we've seen that the North Sea quotas are halved and there's a huge conflict with the Barents Sea population, it should be obvious that Norway, not least with its financial resources, is building this ship as soon as possible. I just want to point out what the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, said here – he thought it would be a postponement because the contract could not be concluded this year, as the central government had supposed – that in that case it would be a bloody sin, because if you don't sign a contract now, it could lead to the marine research vessel not being built for years. The situation in Norwegian shipyards is now completely different from the one in which the central government intervened. My request to the Government is to consider the tender available and to try to sign a contract now, while you have time. It is true that the ship was approx. One hundred million. kr more expensive than intended. On the other hand, I am pretty sure that if you send it out on a new bidding round, it will at least not be cheaper, rather on the contrary. So a little bit about the credit sign. Several proposals have been made by the Right and the Advance Party for the follow-up of the Competition Board. On behalf of the Left, I can say that we largely agree with much of what the Hope Committee has proposed, but we will wait until the Government now submit its proposals. I would ask the Minister of Finance not to sit and wait until everything from the Banking Law Commission and the Hope Committee has been investigated, and then to present it collectively. It brings me back to the posts of the representative, Djupedal, where he talked about Norway and the branch. He is quite right that the financial industry is the blood vessel system in Norwegian business, and that we must have a living and competitive financial system in Norway, with headquarters in Norway. As the rapporteur for the merger between DnB and Postbanken, I have to say that some of the intention behind the merger was to get a strong Norwegian unit while retaining 33 1/3 pst. ownership by the State to ensure the head office function. That other single banks come on foreign hands, the Left does not consider to be a tragedy, on the contrary, secures the competition, which we believe Norwegian business is well off. But one thing was a little surprising in the credit statement: the government doesn't mention the savings banks and mutual Nor's application for conversion into a limited liability company with a single word. I have to say that I find a little disappointing, because the government knows that it has a majority in this big thing to say no to an application for transformation into AS. When you don't suggest saying no, I wonder if you think differently. But I would strongly warn against that, because at the moment you transform Mutual NOR – and I would say that for competition reasons, you can not only make it applicable to Mutual NOR, but to the entire savings banking system – you have made savings banks the objects of possible ‘takeovers’, which it is called in good financial language. It will be the great tragedy of Norwegian business. This is perhaps the matter that matters most to the decentralised business community we have in Norway, of all the issues we have faced in the financial industry in the future. So I would strongly ask the Minister of Finance to bring this matter forward as soon as possible, so that we can calm down on this, because if the Workers' Party wants to be taken seriously when they talk about districts, district development and decentralised business, they should make sure that this matter comes up while they know they have a majority in this Chamber. So a few words about the benefit tax for owner-occupied dwellings. The left has had the aim of ‘removing the benefit tax’, and we will continue to have it, but when we do not go into the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, it is because we have expected that the housing tax proposal from the Government will come before summer. Then to start making interim rules, I must say that I found no reason, especially when the Government does not want to do so itself. We have a little respect for being in government. The refusal by the Labour Party to go into setting a deadline is a bit strange, for I am aware that this proposal was rather close to being dealt with in the Ministry of Finance. The fact that you can't bring it up before the election makes me a little suspicious, because it might indicate that there is a bit of an ugly animal lying there. Now I remember the animal that Lundtigen created, and I understand to the extent that it should not be released into the open air immediately, but it should be possible to get this case before the Stortinget before the elections, so that people know what they have to do in terms of taxing houses and homes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e406	First a few words about the credit notification. The representative, Øystein Djupedal, clearly has a good point in relation to the structural change we have seen in the Norwegian financial sector in recent years, where we have had a significant branching, a branching that I also believe in the long term will be unfortunate for Norwegian business. I feel absolutely convinced that with a business life that looked to those degrees as both resource- and cyclical, a banking system that depends on decisions in other countries will not be able to deal with the challenges such as: the fishing industry receives at regular intervals in poor resource access situations. In this way, Terje Johansen also points out that Norwegian savings banks are the main contributor to crediting in areas where a vulnerable business life is exposed to precisely this type of thing, and where local knowledge, local anchoring and not least knowledge of the business to be served is crucial to finding solutions that business can live with. But the changes we now see in the banking structure make it necessary to look at the conditions of competition. Initially, the Central Party also wants to have a strong national ownership of the banks, and I therefore support the proposal to look particularly closely at some aspects of the Competition Board’s decision-making precisely in view of not further exacerbating the competitive conditions of the Norwegian banks compared to those that are branched or have become foreign owned. That is why the Centre Party supports the majority comment to address in detail some aspects of the call for an opinion of the Committee on Competition. So a few words about case no. 6th@item: inlistbox It is a complicated matter that has been going on for a long time, and it is quite correct, as the representative Johansen says, that the matter of housing taxing more or less was done by the central government in the spring. I assume that it would therefore not be necessary for the Government to spend a very long time submitting this matter. I assume that there has certainly been no desire on the part of the Labour Party to push this beyond the elections, and I would therefore just like to ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that the issue of a new tax system will be put forward in the spring of 2001. Of course, the centre party's starting point is still that you do not have to pay house taxes for ordinary dwellings. It is still a principle for us to have equal treatment wherever housing is located, and the basis on which the decision of spring 1997 was based is, of course, still at our side. This means significant tax relief for most people. It also means that dwellings with normal standards will not be taxed, and I assume that these are also the principles underlying the follow-up from the Government. Now, as I said, this matter should finally be dealt with in Stortinget – hopefully not too long. The Central Party has therefore found it possible to join the Workers' Party in a comment, both because it accepts the premises made by the majority vote in 1997, and because I assume and assume that the proposal will be presented with the very first when the Minister of Finance has also confirmed in the letter sent to the Financial Committee that new rules on taxation are being drawn up in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e415	In this fall's last big debate, I see that part of the press has already pushed the conclusion of the debate by saying that there has been a 'disturbed session in an exciting time'. What is used as an example is that even the ageing of the current year's budget is becoming less exciting. It must be said then that precisely the so-called effusion, i.e. the aging of the budget for the year we are in, has rarely been a major political exercise, so that exactly that example was little strikingly chosen. With respect to reporting, there may be a lot of new aging, but as a measuring instrument for political governance, it is not appropriate in one direction or another. What the recent ageing actually shows is that the ability of politicians or the ability tofinish economic cycle is very limited. If the oil price goes up or goes down, there's something that we can look at pretty much. Our ability to influence it is limited. If the upturn in the economy gives some more tax revenue as a result of people buying more cars or paying something more tax than expected in the Ministry of Finance, there is something we can register, but barely do anything about it at this point in time. From this point of view, recent ageing is not an exciting starting point for an economic debate. At the same time, however, I have to give the lead writer – in this case in the evening post – right in saying that the new budgetary system has in a way brought the debate on the budget out of the big room, because when the negotiations on a majority settlement are over, everyone is happy with it, and the effort in the debate is probably after that. Most of it has been removed from excitement, debate and debate. We have not really, either during the budget debate itself or during other economic debates in the autumn, experienced a particularly wide-ranging debate on the economic strategy. For example, the fact that our country is going completely different from other countries in similar cyclical situations has been observed. to a small extent a debate theme. I'm sorry, it could have been done differently. But the chairman of the Finance Committee is glad that we have got a new government and that the new government is not using the old government's tricks, that is, at the end of the year, to fill in the items that have been cut in the budget agreement for the coming year, so that possible pain can be compensated in a way. It happened last year, and we were among the parties that criticized it. The fact that this government doesn't repeat that trick and doesn't criticise the majority of the population for it, I think maybe it's a small plus point. But it's probably very few outside this hall who notice it as a political shift. What's true is that it's the same parties that praise each other in the autumn, that praised each other last year – they've only exchanged chairs. They praise each other for a policy that they want more of. However, there are doubts about this, for those who have only followed the debate of the Grand Hall get the impression that the economic cost of construction has been decided. It is, in fact, formally, but, as far as I understand, the majority of the population have already come to the realization that this was, I'm sorry to say, quite foolishly done – it could have been used stronger terms too, they are usually used in the press – and you're on the verge of finding something new. It is as the former head of the Finance Committee, Lars Gunnar Lie, expressed it in today's newspapers: it may well have happened a little too quickly at a hotel here in late hours of the night. But in the auditorium, you give the impression that this is a reality. It comes, you're going to pretend that Norwegian work is going to take place after that, but you're always saying when you have a hearing with the same business interests in this house, but outside this room, that you take it easy, we're going to make sure that this is fixed. I guess that's not exactly what interests the big debate. I hardly think it creates respect for politics. In good Norwegian, this is called a double game, and it's probably not something that's right among the most important exercises in politics, to say it carefully. I will make further comments on the ejaculation in connection with case No. 1 lie with it, I just want to show that it's actually relatively unusual that the Storting changes suggestions during the ejaculation. The fact that it is now happening in an area that is important for Norwegian research, I actually think it is a pretty good and symbolic expression. It's a small amount, but it's a symbolic expression that the bulk of the population is impatient with the government's commitment to research. Case No. 2 concerns the credit notification. You could use a lot of words to define what's going on here. I do not participate in the howling that says that everything has gotten worse in relation to the past, neither in this nor in other areas. We are in the midst of a development in which financial markets in Europe – and for that matter worldwide – change. Markets are subject to quite strong structural changes; the banks and financial institutions that were there ten years ago are not the same today. They're bigger, they're stronger, they're fewer. Norway is part of this world. We can do that like that or not, but to report ourselves out of such a development I think will lead to the very opposite result, namely that we are further branched. There is also a rather dramatic change in legislation internationally, but perhaps especially in Europe, in this area. Here's reason to call a warning, and that's what a majority actually does in the situation. A majority expresses considerable impatience with the follow-up by the Government to the position of the Hope Committee, a professional selection with a unanimous recommendation which can be characterised in a short way by the following: a desire to bring Norwegian legislation on the financial industry into line with the legislation in force in Europe. The term «financial industry» means banking and insurance and associated glory – although «glory» may not be the most striking expression, although I now heard the SV representative mention the bank headquarters as part of the «present glory», and then perhaps some ideological dividing lines are broken. In any case, however, the industries most often covered by the terms «bank» and «insurance» apply. In this work, I think the government is making unnecessary payments, because we now feel that international institutions in some areas have better working conditions in Norway than the Norwegian institutions they are competing with. At the same time, you can't complain that foreigners take over more and more when you've actually given differences in the legislation. That's what's going on in this area today. That the central parties in this area will not follow the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party, in the vote on page 10, we will only take note, but verbally we express the same impatience and, in reality, follow these proposals to the very last vote. I take up the proposal on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party in five points on page 10 of the vote – it concerns case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I do not ignore the fact that they are right to say that there is reason to worry if development leads to all Norwegian financial institutions coming entirely on foreign hands with significant ownership. Now the importance of ownership should not be exaggerated, but it is important that there is also capacity for Norwegian ownership in Norwegian financial institutions. I think a mixed ownership has significant benefits in itself. The fact that one of the major Norwegian business banks, the credit fund, is still the credit fund or K-bank in Norway, but owned by the Nordic largest financial unit, I think in many ways can be a strength. One should not prejudge the events, but as far as we know what the bank will do, the bank will invest significantly in Norway, and it will be a tougher competitor to Norwegian banks than K-bank has so far been able to. It now has a greater strength behind it. It's become part of a much larger bank, the largest bank in the Nordic region, and it may have advantages. We have a banking unit attached to the Norwegian Bank that is probably somewhat uncertain about its future. I think the bank and many people in the financial community are excited about what the majority of people thought about investing in the Norwegian Bank as the Norwegian financial unit. This has not happened much since it was pronounced, except that the name is still the Norwegian Bank. However, it was not exactly intended to avoid renaming, but to coordinate Norwegian interests related to the Norwegian Bank. The country that owns has probably not shown any significant strategic ability to do anything that owns to follow up the majority of population so far. But we still await with excitement what the Bank Investment Fund will do on behalf of the state. The third Norwegian unit is linked to the association of the largest proportion of Norwegian savings banks and the old insurance company Mutual, now Mutual NOR. The right does not share the view expressed by the Left, possibly on behalf of the centre parties, that the request for a partial share company model for that group should be rejected. The concert itself has stated that this transformation, this desire to also use the AS model to raise capital in the market, is a prerequisite for further growth. It seems to me that considerable emphasis should be given to this, because this has gradually become a very large Norwegian bank, the only one that has essentially its relation to the savings bank structure. I think it's important that this banking unit get development opportunities to also compete with the other two big business banks. Substantial emphasis should be given. To simply make a clear rejection of it before the matter has been dealt with further, I actually think that I would be irresponsible as to what the bank itself expresses as its desire to compete. Finally, a few comments to Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The representative, Brende, has mentioned the issue of the housing tax system in more detail. Let me just play up to the finance minister, who has signed up on the list of speakers after me, to confirm what I understand is an under-hand agreement between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, namely that the housing tax notice is to be submitted to the spring so that it can also be addressed to the spring. The taxation system was exposed to considerable political interest when it was addressed by Stortinget in the spring of 1997. The suspension was issued on March 1997, by a majority consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party. Per Olaf Lundtegen was the case rapporteur. His taxiing system was characterised by the majority and the case rapporteur himself as ready-to-do. So only technical adjustments were to be made in the department before the system could be put into operation, or at least presented as a real pricing system in the form of the Billing. My impression was that the impression of potting skills faded as the setting approached the department, not least under the then central party council Restad's management. He sat on the case for two and a half years without the potting skill being anything but frozen, to say it like that. Nothing ever came out of it. I have a certain understanding that the department under different management has spent time interpreting what's really in the position. For the majority position, when it was given, by professionals, lawyers on taxation, and not least on economics, it was described as incomprehensible and contradictory, to say the least. But after four years, the ministry should at least have been able to interpret what they themselves think, possibly with certain belongings in the then majority position. I think it would be an advantage to get the system out for two reasons. One is that the present system is poor and unfair, and injustice is increasing. The second reason is that it is clarifying for the parties in front of a choice to say what they think about the taxing of houses and homes. It has something to do with openness and honesty, so that this doesn't still lie down like a mist until after the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e460	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e465	It is always interesting to listen to representatives of the Norwegian right-hand side when discussing structural development in business. You can get a kind of impression that many things are naturalistic, that the evolution that's going on internationally, in a way is a non-stoppable development, an irreversible development, that makes us as a nation or as a magnification not have a role to play in how we want things to be. If you follow the international debate on the structure of the financial industry, there is one important point that underlies the right-hand side here. It is that internationally it is the conservatives who are most aware that national ownership of financial institutions is crucial for the development of business. This means that in Italy, France, Spain, Portugal and Germany, the national anchoring of financial institutions is important, precisely because it is so incredibly important for the development of a country. What we've seen is that in Norway we have fewer of these, fewer and fewer, we're just left with DnB. My point is not to ask the representative Foss about what he thinks about it, because he does think it is natural that if someone might want to go to DnB, it could also be part of Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank or any bank that has the financial strength to buy it. I don't mean that. I believe that as a small nation, we have very special reasons and reasons for wanting to protect our national banking system: because it is important, and because there are no private capitalists in Norway who are able to play that role. They sell out only they get a bid. It even does the Storting just come up with a bid. That is why my challenge to the representative Foss, who expressed some concern about the branching of the Norwegian financial industry, is how should we do it? If it's the market alone that's going to crash in this field, we won't be left with commercial Norwegian commercial banks over time. What, then, are we going to do, unless the Greatness through concession policy or ownership is going to make sure that this function is fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e476	I do not know if I will in the first place be completely beaten into hard grain with all the so-called conservative parties mentioned by the representative from southern Europe. I think it is important here to distinguish between parties with elements of stronger nationalist culture and parties with liberal conservative thinking in economic policy. But now leave it. If a country is to be part of a global economy and enjoy the benefits of it, I don't think you can totally isolate yourself from developments in the global economy, even when they enter the financial industry. I think it would have been impossible to imagine that politicians would freeze a structure from the 1950s to the 1970s into this century, when the framework conditions change so strongly. But at the same time, I agree with the representative that just lying flat for development and believing that you can't control is wrong. I believe that it is mainly possible to manage by strengthening the possibility of Norwegian ownership capacity, providing Norwegian financial institutions with good conditions of competition, and to some extent through concession policy. That's why we have a concession policy. But just saying no to any change of ownership that is based on Norwegian units entering larger units, among other things. The Nordic unit that we have now talked about in several articles, I think, is going to stick my head in the sand in comparison to the fact that development will nevertheless push, as it has done in every country. In Sweden, some of the largest banks have become part of a Nordic unit, including in Finland, in Denmark – the trends are the same across the Nordic region. I think this is a wise way to curb purchases from Europe, otherwise, to think about the Nordic market and not just the Norwegian market. At the same time, however, some institutions must also belong to Norway — therefore, my care includes: for the savings bank structure, which I understand will affect the next replicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e488	The representative Foss and I agree on several important things, firstly that capital knows no limits, and that having a national ownership of at least one large financial institution is important. What makes me feel that the Left is not irresponsible in any way when we are able to take a position quite quickly on the application from Mutual NOR for conversion to AS, is that in the process of restructuring the financial industry, as the Storting actually did in this period, from the disasters ten years back to a modern forward-looking financial system serving Norway – a Norway that is a bundle of money – we convert the oil into financial assets. And that would be bloody sin, not to say shame, if we weren't going to use this commodity to create a cluster, a financial industry, in Norway. In fact, we have gone in and said that one large commercial bank we need in Norway, in Norwegian hands, with head office in Norway. It has become the DnB/Postbank with an insurance company in addition. However, in the view of the Left, savings banks have always been there as an assurance that there is a backbone of decentralised banking throughout Norway. And I have to say that the owners – by the way, it's not the owners, it's the administration – feel that they have to grow further in Mutual NOR, is okay enough. But the question that needs to be asked is whether we politicians think it is necessary. There is evidence here that there is enough capacity to compete effectively in Norway. And the second thing, believing that this is going to be an unattainable fixation that can't be bought by others, I don't believe. I've seen enough examples of when the money pile gets big enough, even the most immeasurable fastening is scratching.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e497	Yes, I agree with the last speaker that one should be careful to predict a permanent and always inexhaustible fixation in business and finance. They can easily become monuments and museums more than dynamic institutions. When you use expressions such as the conversion of Mutual NOR into a limited liability company, it's not that precise. It's just a partial use of the AS form. The company will have an ownership structure after the conversion with significant elements of foundations, which means that the company – I think – will have a solid Norwegian-based ownership structure. I record that a bank that has evolved from being a series of smaller regional savings banks to becoming a nationwide savings bank with commercial banking offers, believes that the basic funds certificates are not a sufficient instrument to raise capital. So they're saying that with this we can't grow, and it's a growing market. If an institution refuses to grow, the institution is at risk of stagnating and unable to compete. I think that's a danger. I do not want savings banks to be frozen in such a structure, this actually for the benefit of savings banks, because they have a significant role that business banks have not quite had, and will not have, either, I think, to serve small and medium-sized businesses in Norway as well as private customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e506	Mutual NOR wants the best of two worlds, and you can't get it. Either you have to say that you want to become a business bank, or you have to say that you want to be a savings bank. To think that you can get the best of both of these codes is naive to me. But that's not what I wanted to bring up with the representative Foss, because the discussion that the representative Foss is taking part in is essentially a very interesting discussion. The representative Foss says that only Norwegian banks will have competitive conditions comparable to those of the other countries’ financial institutions, and that there will automatically be a greater degree of head office functions in Norway. This is not right, and it has never been right. For Norway, initially, is a small country, with a small capital market with relatively few financial institutions, and if we stack all Norwegian financial institutions on top of each other, they do not reach the knees of the big European banks. This means that it's only at the time that a bank has an interesting volume and earnings, that the foreign banks start sniffing on the Norwegian market to see if there's no more profit. We do not, therefore, go in and buy Norwegian banks because we are engaged in Norwegian business or because fish farms up the coast have to have capital base to expand. You go in to pick up the profits that the bank has. And we've seen that over and over again. This means that when foreign banks have bought Norwegian financial institutions, it is not of idealism – no one has to believe it. You buy for purely commercial reasons, which means you have to cut it down, of course you cut it first where it's the furthest away from the head office, where the load with cuts is the least. That will mean in Norway. That means that if we're going to have a national ownership, that's not enough. And that's where my challenge to the representative Foss comes in. Had we had large Norwegian capitalists à la Wallenberg, who had provided long-term ownership, it might have been more reasonable. But we don't have it. Norwegian capitalists are simply too bad. Then the state has to play that role, and we have more than enough money. And that's my challenge to the representative Foss: does he think it makes sense that the state plays this role?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e515	We have come a long way when SV wants more Wallenbergers. That's what I do, too, in the sense that I want more Norwegian private capitalists who are active, long-term, as the Wallenberg family has been in Sweden. But it must be added that it had been up to the Swedish sister party of the representative Djupedal, I guess Wallenberg had no longer lived in Sweden. Sir. Wallenberg has existed as a major capitalist in Swedish social-democratic societies because he has always received exemptions, has always been able to live by rules other than those that have generally worked. And it's been a sensible pragmatic policy, but at least it hasn't happened with the support of the Swedish far left side. No, I actually want to increase the Norwegian ownership capacity, among other things. by facilitating Norwegian capitalists to remain in the country. That is why I strongly disagree with rules such as: means that we tax Norwegian capitalists in such a way – in total taxes on wealth and income that exceed income – that they have to sell themselves into the country to pay taxes or move out to pay less taxes. I have no sense of that. I have the sense to facilitate a wide Norwegian private ownership environment as well. I don't think the state can play a role in taking over private stakeholders. The state has actually tried it now. The result of the country's ownership is exactly what the representative, Djupedal, now stands out and describes as terrible. It's the state that's had ownership of the three banks we're talking about, and in one of them, the state is actually still in a majority position. The representative of Djupedal's attempt to say that we can counteract buying-in, i.e. foreign capital in Norway, by making Norwegian industry and Norwegian financial industry earn less than others, I have little faith – rather the opposite. I think that's a medicine to just stimulate buying. What you can see is that Norwegian institutions are being lowered, that real values in the company are not coming up. What are they? Well, they're very cheap buying-in items. And I don't have a naive attitude about international capital. They don't buy to be nice or because they're stupid, they buy because it's cheap. And unfortunately, it's our framework conditions that have actually made it cheap.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e524	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e527	On the last day of the Great Britain's harvest session, it may be useful, as the representative Foss said, to sum up that there has been a relatively broad consensus on the broad lines of economic policy during the budgetary procedure in the autumn, on the broad line of balancing fluctuations in the economy, not strengthening them. In this respect, it can be said quite frankly that all parties outside the Progress Party are in front of the first line, while the Progress Party is in front of the second. And that is in a way the main dividing line of economic policy. Then we have other dividing lines related to the distribution policy, where the right parties are on one side and the Working Party and the center on the other. In other words, we have adopted a budget that is adapted to the economic situation, which has avoided strengthening the pressure, and on the part of the Government, I am pleased that the main objectives that we set out in the budgetary process have been broadly agreed, both in terms of strengthening the common good, in terms of achieving a fairer distribution and in terms of ensuring the security of the individual's economy. Then there are changes within the budgets, but these overall objectives stand firm. I just want to make a few comments on the various issues that are being dealt with today. First briefly about the ejaculation, where I just want to comment on one question. That is the issue of fishing research vessels. The Workers' Party has been a party that has committed itself strongly to building a new marine research vessel. So the government has seen the need to go further into the matter after having received a significant increase in the cost of this investment. I take note of the Storting's decision not to reduce the allocation to the research vessel in 2000, to the extent that it is also confirmed by the vote later today. I have also noticed that both the majority of the Committee on Finance and Minorities here also refer to the remarks made by the Committee on Churches, Education and Research at the beginning of the Budget. S. No 2 for 2000-2001, where the Committee points out that it is essential for fisheries research to build a new sea research vessel "G.O. Sars’ shall not be exposed. I also interpret the comment of the majority of the committee where they link their resistance to putting down the allocation, among other things. that the withdrawal of the funds will cut off the possibility of concluding a contract before 1 January 2001, as an expression of the desire of the majority to conclude such a contract. The government, as announced, has worked on the non-contracting for the construction of a new research vessel in 2000, but has agreed to return to Stortinget with a review of the project in 2001, as a result of significantly higher costs. There are now 12 days left until the deadline to accept the offer for the construction of the ship expires. The Government will examine the adequacy of the conclusion of a contract within the short time remaining and, where appropriate, will also examine the possibility of extending the offer. If it turns out to be irresponsible to enter into a contract before the end of 2000, and the time limit for the consent has not been postponed, the Government will have to come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the progress of the case. If the Government considers it appropriate to conclude a contract, I see the comment as an agreement that it can be done. So briefly about the credit notification: the credit notification is now more than a document dealing with current issues on the financial market. In this year's report, the following are set out: for the follow-up to the Competition Surface Selection, as has been the case with several speakers. The government has chosen to place great emphasis on the follow-up to that work based on the circumstances of the investigation. At the same time, it is important for me to stress the fact that the setting of the Competition Board is not a finished investigation that is only to be carried out. Rather, there is an indication of a further need for investigation in key areas that indicate a direction. I am concerned that we should follow up as quickly as possible, and I refer to the fact that, in a letter dated 13 July 2000, the Ministry forwarded to the Banking Law Commission a revised mandate for the work of the Commission to ensure the follow-up to the recommendations of the Competition Board in a number of areas requiring a wider review, while at the same time having been given a deadline to submit its opinion until 1 July 2001. The Ministry will give priority to the follow-up to the inquiry. Some other questions were raised in the revised National Budget 2000, provided that they were followed up in the Ministry. At most of these points, action is either taken or under assessment. As the Committee points out in the notice, the issue of fixed-term subordinated loan capital and the weighting of mortgages in the capital adequacy code has been sent to consultation with a deadline of January 2001. I also refer to the work on new capital adequacy legislation under the auspices of the EU and the Basel Committee, which will be followed up in the Norwegian legislation. With regard to the comments of the majority relating to the possibility of coordinated competence and administrative activity within the financial group, I would like to point out that a proposal is now being made on changes in the law on unit trusts, which includes parts of the so-called expenditure law. Finally, some comments on housing taxing and the proposal by representatives Børge Brende and Erna Solberg. I record positively that also the Right now sees a clear need for new taxation rules. The pressure to do so was not as strong the last time the matter was dealt with in Stortinget. The Ministry of Finance is now working on the follow-up of the financial committee's draft for new taxation rules. Although some time has passed since Stortinget dealt with the housing tax cancellation in 1997, I am asking for an understanding that the new government has had limited time on such a large matter. Therefore, important considerations remain until the case is sufficiently prepared. Here I must also ask to make it clear that a fundamental condition of our regime is that whether a matter is prepared by a government that has resigned does not mean that that basis is at the disposal of the new government. And then you start over. Otherwise, there could have been a lot of interesting recordings that had been to the new government when it took over. I can assure Storting that we focus on keeping a rapid progress in the matter. But the important thing is that we find that we have a sufficient basis to present it to the Storting. I do not want to give any assurances today as to when such a basis will be clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e556	For the sake of order, I would just like to correct the Minister of Finance on one point. When he expresses a broad consensus on the broad lines of economic policy, it is right to say that it is a majority of the broad lines of economic policy, and that majority is made up of the outgoing government parties and the current government party. Besides, there's no broad consensus. I also note – I add that on my own account, because the Minister of Finance did not touch it in one word – that it has rarely been more unpredictable at the turn of the year about what kind of framework conditions for Norwegian business will live with in the coming year than at this year's turn of the year. What I have said is what the representative in today's newspapers calls something hasty nightly negotiations at this oslo hotel. I think that's regrettable, but it's a result that there's nothing to do with now until next year's start, and we understand everything then should be able to change again. When it comes to housing taxing, I would like to say that there must be someone here who does not tell me what it really is, because representatives of the government that has resigned say that in the Ministry of Finance there was a professionally investigated proposal for housing taxing system that was ready to be promoted. I understand it so that it is a professional work, it is the work of the civil service, that an abducted government not only takes with it and puts it in a new safe. So it's in the Ministry of Finance. The current government of the Minister of Finance says that there is a considerable amount of work to do, and you can't say when you want to finish. Then I have to say that the majority cracks, because the Central Party has based its support to the Government that this will be promoted in ours. That's what Enoch said in his post. The Minister of Finance does not confirm this. My question, then, is whether this is a majority that is concurred, or whether it is a majority that has the sole purpose of concealing what they think about housing taxing until after the big shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e565	First, the use of the word ‘principal’. Of course, with regard to the opening-up of the Government's budget line, there is a majority, consisting of those who have entered into the budgetary agreement, behind it. What was my point is that in a substantial part of economic policy, namely, on the question of the budget to be used to balance the fluctuations in the economy or to increase the pressure and increase the fluctuations, there is a rather co-ordinated increase, with the exception of the Progress Party, which believes that the budget should be used to mitigate the fluctuations rather than to reinforce them and to boost interest rates, which would be the consequence of the policies of the Progress Party. With regard to the question of the short-term charge on non-residential buildings that I thought were implicit in the reply, I have previously stated that the Government takes note of the decision made by the Stortinget. I see that it has weaknesses, and I am of course prepared to follow up in the best possible way. But it's obvious that there are some remaining issues related to the fee. Of course, on the issue of housing taxing and the preparation of the agency, there is an investigation at the level of the office, but there is a reason for a department to have political leadership, and a government must also carry out the political assessment of what proposals it considers are sufficiently prepared. It is not that we have a sufficient basis today to say that we have a prepared proposal for a housing tax. We are working to get the matter out, but I am not prepared to say today at what time we are ready to present it. The important thing is that we get a proposal that we think is good, sound and well prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e574	The Minister of Finance did not say anything about the application of Mutual NOR at this time. I respect that to the extent that I see well that during the treatment you would rather not express yourself. But when the representative Foss drew up the reason for this application, namely that the basic fund certificates provide a handicap in the acquisition of equity on competitive terms, then of course we in the Left also see that. What I want to ask the Minister of Finance for is that in the work he is doing now, he considers whether there are other possibilities in terms of the framework conditions for savings banks that can compensate for the difference in interest rates that arises between basic funds and shares in the Norwegian equity market. One thing I would like to stress is that the whole problem of converting savings banks into AS, as I understand it, gives me a fear that savings banks will eventually be bought up. It may take three years, it may take ten years, and it may take longer. Firstly, the larger the Norwegian units become, as in the case of Mutual Norse, the easier it becomes to take over a large part of the Norwegian market and the more attractive these units become. And that's how the non-resident financial institutions look at things like, for example, The representative Foss described, i.e. differences in the framework conditions, is the price of half. Which means that foreigners have enormous purchasing power. In addition, there are actually no structures that allow owners not to be persuaded by money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e581	I did not find it natural to comment on a matter that is dealt with in the administration. But when I am asked to do so, I would like to say that I perceive the question related to the application that exists from Mutual NOR, as very complicated and difficult. There are clearly arguments in both directions. I have great respect for the fact that a large financial institution does not have a good enough basis for further development, while also respecting the points of view that the nature of savings banks may change if the application is made. It is also the case that the question has been assessed by the Banking Commission, where a majority has gone to open up the form of a limited liability company, while it is not immaterial – to say it carefully – that a large majority in the savings banking industry itself, with the exception of Mutual NOR, opposes such an opening. I have already had a meeting with the Sparebank Association, and before Christmas I will also have meetings with Mutual NOR and with the Sparebank 1 Group, which is the other big group. I want to hear the industry to get an overview of the views and possibilities that might exist. I wish we could make a relatively quick decision. However, the savings bank association has set up a very broad process which means that it will not be ready for its assessment until April. I wish we could make a decision before that, but I have great respect for the association that represents the industry to carry out its process. I am therefore aiming to await the views that come from the process of the Savings Bank Association before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e589	First, the exchange of lines between the Minister of Finance and the representative of Foss. The finance minister said there is a broad consensus that we will also have a neutral budget until next year. Of course, he's right about that, but the problem is that the budget doesn't work neutrally in relation to what we're going to live on, that's the value creation of business. In this way, the budget adopted is one of the worst budgets in very many years, and it also contains the biggest tax increases in a human age. We do not take that into account in the Right. But having a sensible stabilisation policy is right. The Minister of Finance also said that he has registered that the Right now also sees the need for a new tax system. It is true that the Right continues to point out the major weaknesses of today’s tax system, but as the Right’s policy is to eliminate the tax on housing and wealth taxes, there is no need for a tax system. Why do you have to tax something that is not to be taxed? In a very large number of municipalities, the Right is also for the liquidation of the property tax, that is to say. What is there reason to ask for the Minister of Finance's posts, as he does not want to fix time when a new tax system comes on the table, is: why can't you go for a temporary safety valve in the system? Why can't the Minister of Finance accept that equal housing should be treated equally, not unlike today, within the same residential area? When within one residential area you can get a tax rate on a dwelling that is 100 pst. of the market value, and another dwelling may be taxed to 8 pst. of the market value, why is it not possible to make a safety valve until a new housing taxiing system is in place, so that no dwelling shall have an equation tariff of more than 30 pst. of the market value? Doesn't that have anything to do with predictability? Does it not have any legal certainty to do that equal cases should be treated equally? And all the time he apologizes for saying that the housing tax system is just around the corner. That was the reason for rejecting the proposal in ours, and that was the reason for rejecting the proposal a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e598	Not until next year's budget impact on business. I believe quite clearly that the budget that is now being adopted is well suited to meeting the challenges facing Norwegian business. I don't have any problems seeing some of the tax changes that are made, in isolation, have negative effects. But my clear view is that the alternative would have been a lot worse. One of the most important things for Norwegian business in order to ensure its cost competitiveness is that we avoid a new increase in prices and costs, and then the Government, with the support of a majority in Stortinget, has argued that if we are to manage to increase efforts in important welfare areas, without at the same time becoming a stronger pressure in the Norwegian economy that will drive prices and costs and, to the extent that interest is also raised, we need to dampen the pressure in the private sector of the economy. The government had its proposal to use the cyclical tax on employee income and entrepreneurial income to meet it. The majority in Stortinget have designed a different set of instruments, but the main point is that by reducing this pressure, we avoid speeding up price and cost growth in Norwegian society, and we avoid increasing pressure on interest rates. I believe that this is crucial for Norwegian business as well. Then the representative raises questions about why we do not want to go in relation to the housing tax for a proposal of 30 p.m. the market value. But one of the core issues here is what is market value — it is one of the core issues that a taxing system might reveal to the extent it wishes. Now Stortinget has said that you should not have a tax system based on the market value, but on the value of production. The government will adjust to that. But there is just uncertainty about these types of concepts that make it so important to have a tax system that provides clear guidelines on how to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e605	The Minister of Finance makes me somewhat concerned about the way he answers the question of the timing of the presentation of a new housing tax system. In the light of the debate that has taken place over a long period of time, I have taken it for granted and also interpreted the signals given by the Workers' Party's people, in the sense that the matter would be brought forward in the first half of 2001. And I have to say that I see few reasons why that should not happen. In a number of other contexts, the Workers' Party's people, including the Government's people, have referred to the basic material of the Bondevik government, and to the starting point of what was prepared by the Bondevik government when matters were put forward. This is not least the case with the VAT reform, where it has still been pointed out that it is in line with the Bondevik Government's proposal. Nor is it unusual that matters which are almost ready to be dealt with by one government are decided by a new government, as was done by both the government of Stoltenberg and the government of Bondevik in its time, not just in political controversial issues, but nevertheless. I also noted that the Minister of Finance was an active participant in the debate on housing taxes this summer and had clear political views on the issue. And if it cannot be confirmed by the Minister of Finance that a new proposal for housing tax will be submitted before spring, it must be borne in mind that the Government is unable to decide on the issue. I have to say that in that case I have hurt to believe, because there are other governments you have chosen to characterize as weak in relation to being able to make decisions, so that should hardly be the problem for this government, you should think what they have said before. Reasons other than internal dispute over the design of the tax base are difficult for me to see, so I want a confirmation from the Council of State as to whether the matter will be submitted for the first six months or not. Because if there is no political ability to make a decision on the matter, it could be crucial for the way in which the Central Party will have to vote here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e614	Of course, the government has the ambition that the matter will be presented in the spring. But I have a healthy delivery gel if never to promise more than what I am absolutely sure to keep, and then it can be all the more joy to be able to keep more than what you have promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e619	Yeah, it's a healthy delivery gel. I also hope the Minister of Finance remembers what he said about the Bjørvika tunnel as a transport policy spokesman: it should not be on money. So it's a healthy delivery gel: you shouldn't say more than you can keep, but you have to keep it in return. Finally, I will just concentrate on the housing tax. This is not a question of capacity in the ministry, this is a question of political will. I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party in Innst. S. No 143 for 1996-97 were involved in characterising the tax system we still have, as follows: ‘The majority indicate that there is therefore an urgent need for clarification of the tariff base, so that similar dwellings throughout the country are valued fairly equally.’ In other words, ‘an urgent need’ — and the political assessment of this does not stop because of opposition. I assume that the Workers' Party in opposition is also thinking about government power, at least there has been a kind of tradition in the Workers' Party, and I think that once the professional basis has been laid in the Department, it should be possible to obtain a political assessment of what kind of housing tax system you want, in particular taking into account that the sitting government party was also part of the majority that has given the Government a mandate. So you've given yourself a job that you're now going to need more time to think about. So my question really goes to the Center Party, which in this context is tricked. They are part of a majority that presupposes the matter presented during the spring, but the government has not shown the will to confirm it. I assume, therefore, that the Centre Party agrees with the Centre Parties otherwise to oblige the Government to present it, as the Center Party has foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e633	It's hard to answer a line that's really to others. As I said instead, it is of course the Government's ambition to present the matter, but I assume that we agree that the essential thing is that the matter is well prepared when it is presented, and it is my clear ambition to attend to both parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e638	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e641	In the case of cases No. 3 and 5, for which I am rapporteur, there has been very little activity by the other representatives of the Committee in commenting on the two positions. They have not created the big debate in the committee, so I assume they will be handled very well here in Stortinget. We are debating an important issue today. In my opinion, the credit message is one of the most important issues for the future of Finance-Norway and District-Norway. We have a great oil wealth that grows every day, and most of it is placed in funds abroad. It is said that it is a result of globalisation – we have to spend the money, we can't spend it in Norway, they have to be placed abroad, we don't have room for them here. In the case of banking, the commercial banks are merged, they are merged, they are sold abroad and the money is sent after. They can't be here in Norway either, we don't have enough room for money. There's talk of financial clusters, and it's going to be so good, because we need big units to be able to operate the customers. Already now there is a number of postcodes from which it is not applicable for the Credit Bank/MeritaNordbank to process loan requests. It is frightening and, to the extent that no unexpected development occurs, that there are some areas in this country that are uninteresting as an investment object. We also discuss the access of insurance companies to become a limited liability company. The background to our restrictive fiscal policies and in relation to insurance companies and credit institutions has been the experience we had in the 1930s. So now it has to be opened so that insurance companies can also be transformed into limited liability companies. The next shot on the stem is the savings banks, the savings banks must become a limited liability company, because capital is to be provided. Who is it that has the advantage that all of these financial curvatures, as I would call it? When people in the savings banking community are satisfied with basic funds certificates and are able to serve their customers, especially in the districts, who is dissatisfied? That's my question. If the savings banks in general in Norway are converted into a limited company, we will experience the largest buying-in party in Norwegian history, a bonanza that we have never seen in Norwegian financial life. For whom? Is it for the benefit of the customers who use these banks, or is it for making even more people in the Aker Brygge area into multimillionaires? I'm afraid that's the last thing that's most interesting. It is my conviction that if I are to build myself a house on Røst or on Værøy, in Hammerfest, Mehamn or Brønnøysund, I must have a bank nearby to borrow a few kroner to set up this house. Now I have just outlined how the commercial banks that have been sold abroad already operate with not handling loan applications from certain districts. If the same thing happens to private banks, what is it that we're doing? Well, we're structured to structure away, both banking and people. We have been taught how much value creation will take place in the fishing industry. It is now the case that the fishing industry is located in the districts, it is not in Oslo, nor on Aker Brygge, although many here would like it, so that they got the statistics for the value creation that comes from the production of fish. But that's not the way it is now. Who is going to live in the districts and serve these businesses, create the values that others can harvest from inside the cities, when the banks are gone, and you don't get your house funded? It is a plan in the spirit of globalisation that cheap labour from low-cost countries, which are to live in ghettos or large housing units, are to be flown in similarly when food supplies are distributed and concentrated to a few companies managed from abroad. Should there be cheap labour to serve this, while the population, those who are still left, are sitting on the kaikant and dangling with their feet? I think the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance have to think about before they come up with more proposals on limited liability companies and possible buying-in rounds. I draw the comparison with the short-term cost of industrial buildings that was presented in this state budget. A number of constructions and expansions around the coast of Norway have been iced. You don't think you're going to start anything. You've blown up land, but you can't start building – you don't dare. 10 pst. impact on a building costing 10 million. I'm going to have $1 million. Extra kroner. Where are you going to get the money? But the worst part of all is that when the building is finished, you don't get written off in the usual way, you don't even get subtracted on the tax return. Well, that's what you're asking for. I think the entire planning and framework conditions that have been outlined bear witness to little understanding. Finally, I have to attach some words to the taxiing of the dwelling. Housing has been a discussion theme year after year, and you can't agree in any way on what should be right and what should be wrong. The proposal that is on the table of a 30 pst. limit, should be easy to adopt pending a better system. I agree with the Right on that proposal, and I am proud of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e669	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate in Case No. 1 to 6 is completed. [[Votation, see pages 1505, 1510 and 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e683	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e697	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation. see page 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e711	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e725	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1511]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e740	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e754	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e768	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e782	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e796	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e810	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e824	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1512]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e837	Before we start voting on the matters of the Financial Committee, Lars Gunnar Lie has asked for the floor for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e840	This is about case No. 2, where there is a suggestion from the minority, the Progress Party and the Right. I would like to ask the two parties to do this in a submission to the Government, as the content of it is in line with the intentions of what has been written by the majority in the Committee, and it would be a little unfortunate if this were to be downgraded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e845	Case No. 6, where the Central Party does not participate in the majority which proposes that ‘The Grand Government should submit proposals for new housing charging rules by 1 May 2001’. In view of the uncertainty that the Minister of Finance himself contributed to spreading about whether proposals for new taxation rules will actually be submitted in the first half of the year or not, I ask the Group of the Centre Party to vote for I in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e852	That is the recommendation on file No. 2 to turn the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party into a transmission proposal. The attitude here is to read as if the centre parties strongly support the proposal, but they want it as a transmission proposal. On this day of goodwill and – to say it like that – in Mr. The spirit of Enoch, however limited to this day and this matter, I think it is right that we turn it into a transmission proposal. It is a majority who support what is in the proposal, and I do not think it is right in that context to vote it down. So on behalf of the Right Party and the Advance Party, I turn it into a transmission proposal, and ask the President to reword it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e861	Several have not asked for the floor for an explanation of vote, and then we should be ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e868	During the debate Dag Terje Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: «Chap.PostDestinationCrones 102145Larger acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by 34 300 000from NOK 38000000 to NOK 370000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2755	During the debate, Per-Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. We all heard that Per-Kristian Foss now asked at the end that this proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the Government present to the Grand Duchy during March 2001: 1st@item: inlistbox Proposal to amend the Banking Act aligning the Norwegian legislation on hedge funds with the rest of the EEA area.2. Case concerning the modification of the core capital requirements of credit institutions, so that they are aligned with the EU requirements in this area.3. Case concerning changes in legislation and administrative practices concerning the possibilities of the Norwegian group to coordinate the management of client funds in mutual funds with the operational management of other client funds, so that current Norwegian administrative practices are aligned with legislation and practices in other EEA countries.4. Case concerning the amendment of the cross-border legislation in financial institutions, so that this legislation is fully aligned with the EU rules in this area.5. Timetable for further work on monitoring the suspension of the Competition Board and on the follow-up to the forwarding of the Banking Law Commission for further investigation.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2835	During the debate, Mr Monsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Party of Advances, the Right and the representative of Mr Bastisen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the authorities to instruct the Equations Offices to assume that complaints at today’s Equation Rates are to be accompanied by a maximum rate of 30 per cent of the technical value of the house or 30 per cent of the observable market price if the current Equation Rate exceeds this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2861	The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against the I.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2880	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 November 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concession for access to the tax lists, where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’ The President will draw attention to the fact that the proposal was initially two similar proposals from the Progress Party and the Right, but that these have now been turned into one common proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2898	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 30 November: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a legislative proposal to reflect the obligation to pay for services, without currently exempting services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2914	There is a vote on the proposal from the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 30 November 2000: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a public body to review the investment levy with a view to a profit-neutral conversion in which the tax base is extended and the rate reduced.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2928	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 12 December 2000: ‘The Government requests the setting up of a public body to draw up proposals for new improved and simpler rules for the recording and documentation of accounting information [[i.e. Proposal for a new Chapter 2 of the Law of 17 July 1998 No. 56 on annual accounts, etc.]] The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2946	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative, Mr Børge Brende, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 December 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure, as soon as possible, that the discrimination resulting from the current occupational pension system between AFP pensioners and other early retirementers ceases.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2962	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 14 December 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals for occupational retirement provision for lifelong payment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2978	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 2000: «By the end of February 2001, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for collective investment funds for a single paid corporate pension and for collective investment funds in a defined contribution pension, based on the proposal of the Banking Authority, as well as the financial committee's senior management. O. No 2 on the pension contribution law.’ [[2000-2001]] The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e2994	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, transmitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 2000: ‘The decision requests the Government to postpone the entry into force of the Property Tax Act § 8 until 1 January 2002.’ The voting boards showed that there were 75 votes against and 28 against for the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.29.00]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3006	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3013	The result of the vote shall be 74 votes against and 29 against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3019	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by the representative Bjørn Hernæs, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Centre, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 12 December 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the introduction of a system in cases where young people aged 12 to 15 are committing criminal offences, so that in these cases conflict management will always be carried out unless it is insulted to do so or otherwise.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3035	A vote shall be taken on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 12 December 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit, as soon as possible, legislative proposals to the Storting, which shall prohibit the castration of pigs. For a transitional period, from the adoption of the new legislative proposal until the entry into force of the total prohibition, only veterinarians shall be able to carry out the castration of pigs. It must also be considered that there should be no derogation from the provision to use anaesthetic in surgical procedures on pigs and other animals where the procedure can be expected to cause ‘very bad’.’» The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3054	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 14 December 2000: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess a system of transport aid instead of disability benefits in cases where PRM is the only reason for the disability benefit and where it has the possibility of permanent employment.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-19.ana.ud2221e3071	There is no record. As this is the last big meeting in 2000, the President will be raised before the meeting to thank everyone for the efforts made this autumn and this year, and wish all the representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Stortinge, the press department and everyone else who has their work related to Stortinge's business, a really good Christmas weekend and a peaceful and good new year. The first day of the 2001 Stortingen meeting is known on 10 January. The President hopes that the representatives will then meet happily, openly and with new forces, ready for new cooperation and new gloom.
