ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e24	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e31	The Storting representatives Karin Andersen and Harald Hove have proposed that the Government should investigate a system of a fixed rate of labour migration each year. Proposalers underline, as a background to their proposal, that the communities of the future will be multicultural, and that nations and societies need the cultural and economic stimulus provided by immigration and emigration. In addition, there is an increasing need for labour and productive age that our country has to fill job vacancies. The system envisaged by the proposers is that a certain rate of labour immigration should be filled by a neutral and non-discriminatory method of selection among the applicants. The majority of the Committee, which is all parties except the Progress Party, believes that the proposal has already been examined through the report of the inter-ministerial working group of the Bondevik government set up in spring 1998. For this reason, the Committee rejects the proposal by Mr Andersen and Mr Hove. However, there is reason to stress that two of the workgroup's proposals were endorsed when the Stortinget discussed the St.meld's position on 7 March this year. No 16, i.e. the amendments to the specialist provision and to the provision for seasonal work. I am aware that the proposers believe that these regulatory changes are more based on acute labour needs and that they focus less on the longer-term and attitude aspects of Norwegian legislation. However, the majority of the Committee takes the view that the decisions taken by the Stortinget at that meeting on 7 March are in keeping with the intentions of the present document No. Eight proposals. We also agree that it is an important issue to contribute to the perception that most people have of our multicultural society, not just through asylum and refugee policy issues. For this reason, it would be a good educational point to underline the positive and enriching moment that labour immigrants mean for the Norwegian community. On this point, we have a communication challenge in relation to the decisions and decorations that have already been made. Because in addition to the two decisions I have already mentioned, we have facilitated the provision that foreigners who have received training in Norway, as a general rule, would have to stay for a minimum of five years abroad before they could obtain a work permit here. There is also open access for Russian citizens from the Barents region to take up work in the fishing industry in the Troms and Finnmark counties. So there has been a part of the intention of the proposers. The future will show the extent to which it results in practice. In addition, the majority of the Committee also considers it important to stress in this context that, to the extent that domestic labour is available to the jobs, this workforce should be used first. This also applies to non-residents residing in Norway. Not least, we are concerned about the high unemployment rate among non-Western immigrants. Measures must be taken to ensure that they result in productive work. In the Christian People's Party, we fully agree that it is important to consider the long-term and attitudeal consequences in the people's society that exclusion from Norway signals. In doing so, we aim to think that immigration is threatening and negative. On the other hand, if we open up an increase, but limited, labour immigration from outside the EEA, we are signaling that our restrictive border control is not justified by fear of alienation or fear of the influence of other cultures. In the Christian People's Party, we will not lock ourselves to certain arrangements such as this. immigration lotteries but are open to good schemes which ensure non-neutral selection where everyone has the same opportunity. We will also not insist that this be implemented immediately, but we will leave to the Government to assess when such measures may be relevant. Maybe for the sake of the Norwegian economy, it could be just around the corner, maybe longer in time. The government itself will be able to assess this in the light of the situation that has arisen. With the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, we give the government free hands. I therefore allow myself, on behalf of these parties, to raise these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e50	Finn Kristian Marthinsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e53	The Labour Party agrees that the authorities must facilitate the coverage of future labour needs. Increasing labour demand is also a main justification in the current draft document on the rate of labour migration. Before I go into that proposal, however, I find it necessary to stress that the main task, to meet the need for labour, must be resolved by an active labour market policy for full employment here in the country. There are tens of thousands of unemployed, there are tens of thousands of returnees and tens of thousands of part-timers who want more work. These are labour resources that need to be exploited, in the interests of individuals and in the interests of the Norwegian economy. As the rapporteur mentioned, we must pay particular attention to unemployment among non-Western immigrants. We have also pointed out that asylum seekers were given extended opportunities for temporary work authorisation from the summer of 1999 and believe that it must be followed up in order to prevent inaction and unemployment. Some recruitment of labour from non-EEA countries is positive and may help to address short-term shortages in some occupational groups. At the same time, however, the necessary adaptations of training and qualification measures to their own labour market must be emphasised. I would like to emphasise these considerations in principle in order to avoid the choice of lightweight solutions rather than long-term work in relation to the needs of our future labour market. The proposal for an immigration quota, as the rapporteur mentioned, has been examined in the past. The Bondevik Government has made two proposals which have also been endorsed by the Workers' Party, namely on changes to the specialist provision and the provision on seasonal work. We joined it because we believe it is right to adorn the legislation that can make it easier to meet the need for skilled labour and seasonal labour in the areas concerned. We believe that these proposals also take account of the intentions behind the proposal for a document on labour force immigration quotas. They cover an expressed need for labour in special areas and have a positive starting point in relation to labour immigration as a valuable contribution to Norwegian society. In addition, immigrants outside the EEA area will have the best starting point for entering directly into the labour market, and this will facilitate integration. We take note of the fact that the previous government did not make proposals in the case of labour immigration quotas and in the case of immigration lotteries. Nor does it provide a basis for a full reality review. However, from the Labour Party, I would like to express here and now a general scepticism against a system of random immigration quotas and a lottery form, among other things. having regard to the views of the inter-ministerial working group referred to earlier. We believe that the intentions of the present document proposals for increased labour migration and better integration must be based on the opportunities offered by the labour market and be done in regulated forms. The working party here believes that further assessments of existing provisions may be more appropriate after a period of time to ensure different considerations than new forms of labour immigration quotas with or without lottery averaging. It seems to be somewhat easier to believe that such a quota should have a special advantage in preventing negative attitudes towards the multicultural community or being a specific signal in relation to other ways of organising labour immigration from outside the EEA territory. As mentioned above, the proposal on allowances and lotteries was not promoted by the former government. From the Ministry of Justice, it was pointed out that a good deal of changes have now been made to the legislation on labour immigration in recent years. The Labour Party is the only party in the Judicial Committee that agrees with the former Council of State Dørum of the Left – I stress from the Left – that these changes should take effect for a time before it might be appropriate to consider any further measures aimed at increasing the recruitment of labour from outside the EEA territory. However, a majority, all except the Advance Party, assumes that the Government, if it deems it necessary, submits to the Storting any further measures that fall outside the main principles of labour immigration regulation currently in force. The central parties have made their own proposal of equivalent content, i.e. a mandate for the Government to consider further measures, but that assessment should be carried out ‘in the spring of 2000’, from which we are about to leave. Now I noticed that the rapporteur said that this was not a requirement for an immediate assessment, but I cannot help but understand that the content of the proposal is almost such that you should have made the assessment yesterday. With reference to the last and majority comments in the vote, I would like to ask the Christian People's Party and the Central Party to submit the proposal without any substantive discussion. We have noted the impatience and emphasis on the need for labour in the interests of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e66	I particularly noticed the Workers' Party's Vidar Bjørnstad, who weighted LO's slogans on labour immigration in its introduction. I just want to say that the Progress Party shares the view that one is almost more morally obliged to provide Norwegian citizens with work rather than aliens from other countries. But we do not agree with the Prime Minister of the same party, who says that more general emphasis should be placed on immigration to the country – and that at the same time he wants a greater bureaucracy. When Mogens Glistrup founded the Nordic advance movement in 1972, he proposed to shut down most of the Danish embassies. When he was asked what would happen to the unemployed Danish diplomats, he replied that, for example, they could be set to place needles in the women's hats. There are many ways to say things, but Glistrup's points are central: the public sector is too big. There are too many unnecessary legal regulations, prohibitions, injunctions and concessional arrangements that lead to much of the Norwegian workforce being involved in red tape and paper-moving. Paper movers and public bureaucrats who see it as their primary task to put a no-stamp on an application rarely create values. If we are to achieve increased value creation in a society, it is necessary to reduce the paper mill, eliminate regulation and transfer labour from paper relocation and application processing to productive, creative work. In addition, we need to streamline the private sectors that currently depend on public subsidies, even if it will lead to labour losses. When the Progress Party has proposed the necessary modernisation of the public sector and the efficiency of Norwegian agriculture, we have been asked the following questions: What will the unemployed man do? However, during a period of tight labour market, where it is at least claimed that the problem is that many industries are in fact out of work, this labour demand can be addressed by rationalising and streamlining the public sector through the reduction of red tape and, at the same time, will lead to a lasting gain in the form of increased value creation. It is in this way that the problem is solved, not through increased imports of foreign labour. We will therefore vote against the present proposal. In spite of improving the efficiency and modernisation of the public sector, should it still be necessary for labour, I would remind you that the Progress Party has proposed a system of guest workers in the Swiss model, which will be a much better system than an import of labour that will remain in Norway even if we again have problems with unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e75	Although the Committee rejects this proposal, the proposers deserve to be taken seriously in terms of the intention behind the proposal. I read in the explanatory statement that, first of all, Norway is experiencing an increasing need for labour to fill vacancies, and that is quite right. Secondly, the proposalers take up the fact that today's immigration policy has as a kind of starting point that immigration is undesirable from outside the EEA territory, except where we are asking for it ourselves. These two starting points are valuable and something to the right can join. But it is the solution to these two challenges that is the problem: choosing a system of random immigration quotas and a lottery form. I think the most problematic thing about this way of doing it is the very view of the labour force of an immigrant as a resource. When we turn it into a kind of lottery form where we undertake to distribute lots to the lucky winner, it's kind of we who are rust and distribute, and some who are lucky and sheep. The reality is the opposite. We have a basic need for human competence in different areas, and from different parts of the world, and we are lucky if they take their resources and come to Norway and use it. It makes me unable to support the proposal itself, simply because of a fundamental disagreement about the view of those who come here as a resource. The challenge of the future will simply be that all countries compete for the labour force, and creating framework conditions that make different people from different countries and parts of the world really want to come to Norway and contribute will be as important as yesterday’s challenges in creating other types of framework conditions for business. This means that the Right has had the principle that everyone who gets a job in Norway, and who is guaranteed entertainment and housing, should be allowed to come here and help build the country together with us who live here from before. Any person who can support himself and his household is a positive contribution to society, and it should meet with an open attitude. We had a debate on this on March 7, and it wasn't long ago. Then the right had a proposal that neither received the SV's support nor the Left's support. SV explained it a little openly that they actually don't sit in the committee and don't always get to go as deep into the details that the committee is dealing with, and I have a lot of understanding for that. However, I would like to remind you that when the Stortinget on 6 June 1997 dealt with this issue, both the centre and the SV proposers were behind a proposal that was very similar to the one that the Right has promoted today. So my appeal to the SV and the Left is that I hope that when their own proposal is voted down, they can at least subsidiaryly agree to the Right's proposal, because we have the same starting point in the view of foreign labour as a resource. And in these words I will address the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e86	Kristin Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e89	The human vision expressed in the statements of the representative, Mr. Stang, is all reason to be on guard against it. That's the first thing I'll be allowed to say. The future of Norway will be a multicultural society. Our immigration and integration policies must take this into account. It's not like that today. Unlike countries that have a tradition of recognizing the need for cultural and economic stimulation of immigration, Norway is so closed that one can get a sense that the law creates fear of alienation and also keeps alive in this fear of alienation. We have an old-fashioned, immature immigration policy that we in the SV believe needs to be changed and liberalised. We need a law that signals that diversity is desirable, and this law should actively contribute to diversity. The aim of presenting the proposal for a Green Card System is to provide a positive alternative, giving a positive signal that we want to increase immigration. It must be made possible for one to legally come to Norway, live and work here and earn a right to citizenship. This must be open to adults from all over the world. And it's still going to be a limited and controlled immigration. The government's proposal for the decoration of the rules and the examination of the proposal by the Committee shows that one is unable to focus enough on the long-term and mental aspects of the proposal. Instead, one deals with short-term and more acute needs in the Norwegian labour market, for which the representative Bjørnstad was a typical spokesman. The advantages of a green card scheme are several. Firstly, it has a symbolic effect on immigrants living in Norway today that they are welcome. In addition, the restrictive policies of the State could not be used to legitimise racism and xenophobia. Secondly, in the European and international context, even such limited immigration will give a clear message. Our restrictive border control is not justified by the fear of other cultures and peoples. Thirdly, immigration to Norway will become more complex. We can give quotas to citizens from countries from which there is little immigration, in order to enhance diversity and counteract ghettoisation. This will facilitate inclusion in society and allow more people to get in touch with immigrants in their everyday lives, and it will be valuable for our society. Today's refugee and asylum policy is often abused as the venue for a debate on whether diversity is good or not. Refugee and asylum policies are not at all concerned. It concerns Norway’s obligations to provide protection to people who are persecuted and who need international protection. It is part of international responsibility and is about solidarity and humanism. We must continue to do so, and a new immigration policy should not be replaced or pushed over by a human asylum policy. There will be a shortage of labour in the years ahead. In several sectors, we know that we already lack labour. It's enough to remember the IT industry. They themselves estimate that they will lack more than a thousand workers. In the public sector, we will need tens of thousands of new ones in health, care, etc. One cannot handpick all these people in other countries. It's not a goal far from there. But we are going to pursue an active education and training policy for our own employees, and this combined with a new immigration policy will be able to meet the need for labour in the future. So quick a little comment at the end of the suggestions that lie there. We will not vote in favour of the proposal of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party. In their argument, they are very much in agreement with us, but when they conclude, it becomes a very vague and non-binding conclusion. We are going to vote in favour of the Right proposal. The right's proposal is a long way towards what we've done in the past. We are not satisfied with that, and we do not agree with all the pieces, but that is what is closest to our proposal. So finally, I'm going to take up the proposal that's in the setting on page 1 and I'd like to have it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e115	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e118	Norway has a high demand for labour. This need seems to only increase in the future. It is therefore necessary to develop good arrangements that can secure the labour Norway needs. The left leader, Lars Sponheim, at his national meeting in 1998, called for Norway to increase labour immigration through a Norwegian variant of its Green Card Lottery, where a limited number of workers from other countries are given leave of residence and work in Norway. There is one such proposal now under consideration in the form of a Document No. Eight proposals from Karin Andersen of the Socialist Left Party and Harald Hove of the Left. The left sees such a proposal as one of several possibilities for inviting workers we need to go to Norway. The society of the future will be multicultural, and Norway's policy in terms of immigration and integration must have this as a positive starting point. Nations and societies need the cultural and economic stimulus offered by immigration and emigration. Future jobs must be created by people with a lack of knowledge and ability to combine untraditionally across disciplines and cultures. The trend towards other cultures is also reflected in immigration policy. A strict and closed legislation gives a signal that immigration is tactful and negative. A more open law will signal that Norway wants a diverse society and through its policies wants to actively participate in it. Changing the law to allow for a limited level of immigration from countries around the world will signal that immigration is desirable and positive and not dangerous in itself. So it would be a positive measure to create a legal, even limited, scheme that would allow Norwegian residents to make their way out of a positive desire to live here. Such a limited system must be open, not discriminatory in form. The U.S. has called a well-tested system to secure immigration from all over the world. The so-called ‘Green Card Lottery’ secures such immigration. A corresponding system in Norway may be based on the fact that the Storting established a quota for immigration every year. All grown citizens in the applicant countries who want to do so could seek employment and rest periods and thus over time also earn the right to Norwegian citizenship. Such a system will attract people with impasse and initiative. No matter what skills are available, such a supply of work and labour will be positive for the Norwegian economy. It is natural for those entering such an quota to be provided and committed to Norwegian language and community training. With such a system, immigration to Norway will be much more complex and representative of the actual population of the world’s countries and cultures. Society will be lacking, while many small groups from different countries will reduce the risk of ghetto formation and increase the potential for inclusion in the Norwegian community. The central government got a lot of people in Stortinget to smooth out their work immigration this year. These are changes in specialist and seasonal work. These are positive measures that address the need for labour a bit on the road, but it is probably not enough. The Christian People's Party and the Central Party further point out in the setting that additional measures may extend the period for seasonal workers to six months, or the extension of the arrangements for the recruitment of unskilled workers from north-west Russia to the fishing industry in Finnmark and Troms to primary industries throughout the country. The Centre proposes to ask the Government to assess changes in the rules on labour immigration if it finds during the spring that there is a need for additional labour for the Norwegian economy. I noticed that Vidar Bjørnstad thought that the spring was soon over. Then I would like to say: Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in his declaration of accession: ‘At the same time, Norway has to meet a new challenge: increasing labour shortages. Even today, there are too few people in the care professions. There's a lot of demand for people with technology skills. We will need even more people in these important jobs." Given this recognition, it is strange that the Workers' Party cannot accept proposals from the Centre Party. The centre points to the positive in a non-favorable scheme, but places all interested workers from outside the EEA area on the same footing as the possibility of coming to Norway, and this could well be done through a Green Card scheme. It should therefore be assessed whether such a system could be in place to meet the labour demand, which will increase in Norway in the future. The left will support the proposal of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e158	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e161	I sat and thought that if it was the Progress Party that had suggested that we should have a lottery, a state game, where the effort should not be high money prizes, but permanent stay in Norway, I think the reaction in this room had been quite different. But when there are other parties that propose such things, it's kind of accepted, and then it's okay. From the point of view of the Progress Party, it is essential that we open up in Norway to people with skills that we do not have in Norway. Clearly, as a small country, we need it from a population point of view. However, we believe that it is sufficient that we stick to the Nordic countries and the EEA region. If that is not enough, it is clear that the issue of wages and the provision of conditions for the labour that you will have will mean that business will certainly look at the framework conditions that they will provide for the skills they possess. Obviously, here we have a challenge. The proposal we have here today, we do not believe that the Progress Party is a solution to the challenges facing industry and Norwegian society in terms of topping. We will refer to the discussion and debate we have had before in this area. It is gratifying that, in the workplace too, there is nothing wrong with the fact that the Progress Party points out that we have a great responsibility towards our own citizens who are not at work today, and that we also take responsibility for those who have contributed to the creation of value in this country, by relying on them and putting the framework conditions in place so that they can get the labour they need. That's why it's at least a pleasure that the game madness in the Labour Party and the Right in this case is not at the level it's in the middle parties, which, in connection with all other proposals for games, and especially state games, has been very sceptical and has warned against it. In any case, it has been established by the reading today that the proposal and the initiative that have been put forward do not make any difference. Then we get to stick to laws and regulations, and when it comes to meeting the need for skills and labour, we have to stick to normal regulations, which make business get what it needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e172	As you know, my predecessor as Minister of Justice did not approve the proposal to apply a system of fixed labour immigration quotas each year. I also believe that such a scheme appears to be sufficiently elucidated in the report already mentioned by an interdepartmental working group. I also agree with my predecessors and the majority of the Storting that such measures should not be implemented, at least not at this stage. I can also agree with the views expressed by representatives of the majority of the committee, and this concerns respect for the intentions behind the proposal and not least the fact that the Storting has recently adopted changes to the immigration regulation provisions. There are changes that could address the labour needs such as: Mr Vihovde referred to. However, when I asked for the floor, it was particularly important to stress that the Ministry of Labour and the Government will continue to monitor the labour market in terms of whether there is a labour demand that should be covered by foreign labour and for which there is no authority to grant authorisation today. And if that should appear to be the case, it will be developed and sent to consultation proposals for one or more new immigration regulation provisions in the regulation. In other words, we will follow up what is so far in the proposal from the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, but on the other hand, it is possible that it is not easy to give feedback and make that assessment as early as possible, because, as is well known, the new immigration regulatory provisions have been partially implemented on 1 April and will be partially implemented on 1 April per year. May 1st. However, if there is a need for measures that fall outside the main principles of today's regulation of immigration, I should like to assure you that such a problem will be presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e183	The representative Vidar Bjørnstad expressed scepticism for random selection criteria such as: Lottery, and others have also been in it. Yes, we have also stated that there is no “must” for any of us. But what we're looking for is that the government finds out about supplementary schemes that allow you to remedy the situation that might have to call for additional labour. As the representative of Bjørnstad, and now also the Council of State, put it, I have noticed that what we are after will be taken care of. Of course, I also see, as someone will call it, the comical thing about promoting a proposal asking for an assessment of this already in the spring of 2000, because, as has also been mentioned, the spring can be noticed by many of us already, not least through allergies. So it might seem like this is something rash. The proposal is not rash, but the point of it is to state that if the Norwegian Government finds that there is a need for further action in the field of labour, then we will not be any delay in that regard. On the contrary, we want to give the government free hands to start without any major procedures around this. Kristin Krohn Devold also agreed with the challenges, but disagreed with the solutions. When we vote against the Right-wing proposal, it is due to the content of the justification, because we believe that it is proposed to favour the resources with the necessary contacts both to employers and to housing distribution, and for us this will mean an undesirable discrimination. In the light of what I have now said, and that there is no proposal for a lottery, but that you should have free hands here, as confirmed by the representative of Bjørnstad and the Council of State, I have no problem at all making the proposal of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party as a proposal for a transfer proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e192	This has become a typical debate: the Progress Party is trying to ridicule this by highlighting this with lottery and games. The point is to open up increased immigration in order to create a multicultural society and give more room for more people to come to Norway and settle here and also to have Norwegian citizenship. As everyone knows, SV has not sucked this out of its own breast; this is a system that has been tested elsewhere. If the model is good, we can of course discuss, and we might want to find better models, but this is a model that's proven, a system that's tested, among other things, that everyone knows, in the United States. Then you can discuss whether this works well enough. But at least in the United States, immigrants have been accepted from a number of countries that would otherwise probably not have accepted immigrants from, and opened up for increased immigration. And that's what was the point of this proposal and an important moment for us. There is reason to be concerned when, in particular, the Workers' Party stresses this with labour immigration and the need for labour and sets this proposal against the fact that we have unemployment in Norway. If there is something that helps to promote racism, then it is precisely the kind of argument that we still have unemployment – and we have quite a lot of unemployment in Norway – and oppose increased immigration and accepting asylum seekers in Norway. So this helps to develop the racism that we don't want to cultivate, and that becomes good food for certain parties here in the Storting. And we regret that the Workers' Party is particularly promoting this as an important signal and to a small extent is discussing what is really part of the intention of the proposal, to open up increased immigration in order to thus stimulate a multicultural society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e201	I could not dare to make any comments to the representative Rikvam. I think he should not over-dimension the good intentions behind Document No. The 8th proposal, which is available because what is said directly, is that it is labour immigration which is also the main objective, and not more idealistic reasons, which the representative Rikham put into focus at the moment. I called it a little overly simplistic, but I might say it's a little naive to think that such a proposal for an allowance of, for example. A thousand people should have something special to say about fighting resistance to a multicultural society in Norway, or give a special signal to show that we are not racists in this country. My immediate reaction to the lottery form is more in the direction of Kristin Krohn Devold's reaction, having the slogan that a small proportion of them might come to the prosperity society of Norway. With regard to the reference to the United States, I also think that the representative, Rikvam, can be very familiar with the labour regulations and pay conditions in the United States. I think it's better to assume Norwegian social conditions than the more cynical exploitation we'll find over the pond. As I said, we are open to assess other possible ways of securing Norwegian labour. We believe that the two proposals we made, changing the specialist provision and the rules for seasonal labour, also had a positive starting point that people outside the EEA could meet a labour demand in Norway, and that it was a simple and good way to facilitate integration into Norwegian society. With regard to the proposal from the Right, I just want to say that a full opening for it will be the best contribution to undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. That is why we are voting against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e226	It's been a long time since World War II ended, and I don't think it's going to be perceived by history as the most honorable part of our post-war period that we haven't been able to make up for the damage that was inflicted on Norwegian citizens more than 60 years ago. The background to the case is the peace that Norway, together with the Allies, concluded with Japan on 8 September 1951, when Norway and the Allies rejected the right to compensation. Therefore, there is no international legal basis for the Norwegian State to claim compensation on behalf of former Norwegian prisoners of war in Japanese captivity. It is true that, in the Norwegian sense, this individual does not prevent him from going on such a case, but this is a position that is not shared by, for example, the employer. the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The attempts to raise such claims from citizens of the United States, England, Australia and New Zealand – who were therefore part of the peace agreement with Norway – have been rejected by Japanese courts with reference to the peace agreement. The Committee therefore assumes that, since they have little prospect of success, it would be unreasonable to ask Norwegian citizens to bring such actions. During the examination of this matter, we have received very strong reports that the suffering of the Norwegian prisoners in the Japanese War Prison had to be reviewed, hardly stood up for the suffering of the prisoners of war among other warring parties. To put the size in relief, it was according to the war compensation we received from the then Federal Republic of Germany, 2,529 prisoners who received compensation on the basis of that agreement, while we assume it may be about approx. 900 prisoners in Japanese captivity of war. The Committee has come to the conclusion that this is not a completely transparent area. It is part of the picture that the matter has been sent a number of times in the years following the war between different departments and departments. The Committee has therefore come to the conclusion that we will ask the Government to carry out the necessary investigative work with a view to finding a system of compensation for these prisoners. I assume that it is unnecessary to say that this investigation, if it is to have any purpose, should come not only quickly but very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e239	I am really proud of my colleagues from other parties. I am really proud of the case rapporteur who has done such a thorough job as he has done, and did not buy all the arguments that have come from the department, with the history that this case has. I think it is gratifying that the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and – I assume – the Left, which is not represented in the Judicial Committee, will support the unanimous vote of the Committee on Justice. It should just be lacking that not a nation like Norway takes this seriously. It was about 900 Northmen who lived in a hell in Japanese captivity. History shows that often it was worse there than it was in other concentration camps, so I think it's a good decision The Storting is going to do today. But there is one question that is not clarified in the setting, but I am a little concerned about and would like to hear the Minister of Justice's assessment. The rapporteur, Mrs Hernæs, said that progress had to be speedy in this matter. I fully share that view, and I think the whole Storting is doing that too. But in the wake of the position taken by the Justice Committee, a number of questions have been raised: What about the children of those who have been in Japanese captivity? What about the widows? And then I take it as a matter of course that the Minister of Justice and those who follow up on this work continue to use the same arrangement with regard to the survivors of persons who have been in Japanese captivity, as has been done for other settlements regarding the injustice committed against Norwegian citizens, who in retrospect after long negotiations and after a lot of struggle and great suffering have received a war pension or other things. My wish is that we can continue the good cooperation we have had in this matter, and that the Minister of Justice can confirm that she will return quickly to the Stortinget with proposals for a system, that she will also look at this with the survivors, and that we are based on the normal way of doing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e246	None of the 900 Northmen who were imprisoned in Japanese war during World War II have received compensation, unlike those who were imprisoned in German war. It is true that West Germany finally paid 102 million. kr to Norway in the late 1950s, and that these were further distributed by the Norwegian authorities. Japan has never paid any kind of compensation. Several Nordics have spent hundreds of days in several convict camps under Japanese rule. Japanese courts rejected, not later than two years ago, an apology from the Japanese state and a compensation of NOK 150 000 for each of those who were interned under the most grotesque conditions. There were mainly three groups of people who were imprisoned, mainly seafarers, munitions and civilians, as well as ordinary prisoners of war. Billing allowances, signaled by the former Social Minister, are no good solution for Norwegian prisoners who were subjected to inhumane suffering in Japanese captivity, nor will this be a worthy arrangement for people who experienced atrocities and assaults during the war. At a liberation conference in San Francisco in 1951, Norway, together with a number of other nations, renounced all forms of war compensation from the Japanese. Several questions have been asked about why one was so yielding to the Japanese as opposed to others during the war. The questions remain unanswered for some strange reason. In order to illustrate the hard experiences of prisoners, the film entitled ‘Broen over Kwai’ may be recommended. The conditions of many Northmen in the camps were nothing better than what is produced in this film. When one got into captivity, the war began first to survive for most of those who were in Japanese captivity. Someone was paid in captivity for the time being, but no one has received anything for torture and pangs. Most of the prisoners were not trained soldiers, and have not received any kind of compensation or other compensation. Therefore, it is gratifying that a unanimous committee seems to want to correct the bias, and that some kind of replacement should come. The prisoners of war in Japanese captivity should at least be able to rely in the year 2000 on Norwegian politicians providing some form of compensation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e257	Initially, I will be allowed to congratulate the Justice Committee and the case rapporteur on what has been done in this matter. Finally, it seems that we can have a happy outcome when it comes to finally being willing to give some kind of compensation to the people who have been subjected to the atrocities they have suffered by sitting in Japanese prison camps during the war. I hope that when the Government presents a case on this topic, we will not see again that the Norwegian post-war history has an unfortunate outcome for those who have been hit in, among other things. these prison camps. I hope that when the matter comes back here, it is in such a form that we can really say that now we will try to correct a part in relation to these sufferings. We can never repair the damage these people have suffered, but we can at least give compensation and compensation to these people: Yes, we in Stortinget also care about what you have been exposed to. Yes, we are willing to try to fix some of the things that have happened, but unfortunately we cannot fix anything in relation to the mental damage you have suffered. We can't fix anything compared to the fact that children of people in Japanese prison camps have had to live with parents, fathers or mothers, have had major mental problems throughout their adulthood, and they've lost a lot of money on it. Nor can we rectify anything in relation to the fact that the surviving spouse has also lived with a person who has been exposed to these atrocities. But at least we can tell those people that we want to do our best to give some kind of compensation, so we don't run away from our responsibility. I hope that the Minister of Justice does not go for the simple solution in this matter and say that this is a matter for the Committee on Billing Compensation. I really hope that you now take a different step in this matter and give some kind of compensation to the individual who has been exposed to this, and possibly also to the children of the person, a step down the family path, or to the surviving spouse. Billing compensation is not a solution in this respect, because it is given only to persons who live and will not go to children or to spouses. It is very important that we have just this in relation to the compensation in this case. I therefore hope that we get the matter back quickly, that this will now be corrected, and that compensation will be given to these people who have been exposed to such atrocities that we in this room cannot imagine.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e266	This case shows that the spirit of good care for other people is still alive. It must be a relief and a joy for the people involved, that not only does this matter have a very positive outcome, but it is also unanimous. They deserve that. Prisoners have suffered great physical and mental suffering through their captivity. Secondly, the lack of follow-up and the feeling of being forgotten has been a psychological additional probe. Not least, it must have been difficult for this group to have been kept outside in 1959, as the suspension of the Fleischer Committee led to the inclusion of a unanimous social committee to award compensation to prisoners of Germany. Similarly, a temporary law of 2 August 1946 stated that wages were to be paid to Norwegian seafarers in captivity who had sailed on Norwegian ships and later compensation for the cheapness of seafarers who had been taken captive after sailing on foreign ships, under the temporary law of 18 June 1948. But this didn't help the other two categories of prisoners, that is, munitions and people in civil professions. It is a pleasure and a relief that the Committee is now committed to ensuring that individual prisoners are treated as closely as possible by the proposal that the Government should now consider different compensation schemes as compensation for the suffering of Norwegian citizens in Japanese captivity in the last world war, and as several other speakers have pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e280	I was asked three questions by the representative, Kleppe, which I will try to answer. On the first question, the answer is yes. We need to consider alternative replacement schemes and come back as soon as we can. To the second question, of course, we need to assess the situation of the survivors. When looking at alternative replacement schemes, the question of leaving people of different types must be considered. That's what we're going to take with us. Thirdly, it is natural to take as a basis similar schemes, but of course at the same time take into account what may be of inequalities. And then at least it's close to looking at the Jewish settlement, the settlement after German captivity – which was a little different, among other things. by coming from the German State, but also by looking at the possible consequences of the payment of the prison wage and the payments made by the Nortraship Fund in this case. In other words, we'll get back to the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e307	The Occupational Insurers Act requires the Defence to compensate employees who are covered by the Act. As you know it applies from 1 January 1990. The previous Minister of Justice has stated that there were only a limited number of persons involved in peace operations before that time and that compensation schemes for that group should be able to be arranged on an ex-gratia basis or similar basis. The majority of the Judicial Committee assumes that the Ministry will take an initiative in order to have a system that they themselves recommend. The majority, all lots except the Advance Party, also refers to St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99 Adaptation of defence to participation in international operations – which was also dealt with in the Stortinget earlier today – and to St.meld. No 18 on Norway's participation in international police cooperation. The majority of the Judicial Committee refers to the major challenges posed by these communications to the entire central government on these issues and assumes that the Government will have to come back to the Storting with an assessment of these issues. On this basis, and bearing in mind that a similar proposal has been examined and rejected by the Stortingen recently, the majority would propose that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e324	As the rapporteur, Mr Hernæs, pointed out, earlier today the Committee on Defence has, under case No. 1 on the adaptation of defence to participation in international operations, discussed how we will in the future recruit people for peacekeeping operations in the UN service and to other missions where Norwegian soldiers and Norwegian personnel will be deployed. But this case concerns those who have already made an effort, who are standing on the ground, and who have been involved in operations before 1990. There are not a few, there are thousands of Norwegian men and women who have contributed to such an important work for the country. And I have to say that it's a cross of thought that the justice committee's members have not taken seriously the circumstances in which many of these people have lived after they returned home after they have finished their duties. Several of them have even taken their own lives. Several of them are staggering against the system, they never reach out because of the legislation that we have. After all, the Nobel Peace Prize was given to the United Nations peacekeeping forces in 1988. It was like giving a certificate of honor and making it visible that the international community and the Nobel Committee appreciated the work that was being done. Does the President know what happened? These people even had to pay for the medal they received. After this case was raised in Stortinget, we have received a number of enquiries from people who have been in service for Norway. And that's not the case we're talking about. It's heartbreaking information we get from those who have been there, who have come home again, and who have not met understanding what they've been through. We in the Progress Party take this seriously, and we want to correct the injustice that has been done to Norwegian citizens who have fought for peace on a global scale in a completely different way from the majority – because we have been committed and really have done something about it. And what will recruitment be like in the future when in a civilised country and in a democracy that Norway is unable to solve the injustice that has been committed against these people from 1978 – yes even earlier – and until 1990? What has happened since 1990 gives hope to those who are in a difficult situation today, but it does not help those who have been in service and who were the first to leave. We know that in the operations that Norway has been involved, 42 Norwegian human lives have been lost. It's human life that's been lost. In addition, it's the late injuries and the problems that people get when they get home. I have to say it is bad treatment for people who have made an effort for Norway. Councillor Kosmo saw it when he was Minister of Defence. He had a dialogue with the organizations in a serious and proper way. The United Nations Federation of veterans helped him get started, so the former soldiers got a much better relationship and a much better back-up than they had before. But that work has stopped. And when that work is stopped, we have to start it again, and then it does not help to hide behind paragraphs and that the code works – at least after 1 January 1990. On behalf of the Progress Party, I must say, like all the thousands of people who have served, like the LO, like all the actors who have been involved in the situation that Norwegian personnel and Norwegian forces have lived abroad and have not received the assistance they require, that there is a disappointing attitude that the Justice Committee has taken. Let's take note of that. We're not giving up. President, we're coming back. I refer to the proposals of the Advance Party that have been included in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e346	Vidar Kleppe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e349	The arguments put forward by Mr Hernæs – and, for that matter, by others – to reject the proposal are totally incomprehensible to me. He believes that the issues raised here by the Progress Party in its proposal are covered by bigoting messages. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur: how exactly is it covered? I haven't found anything. After more than 20 years, the Norwegian UN soldiers have packed their equipment and left South Lebanon. Since April 1978, Norway, on behalf of the United Nations, has maintained a military presence in South Lebanon. The aim has been to monitor the continued implementation of Security Council Resolution 425. It would be right to claim that the security of the area over the 20 years in question has been better than it would have been without the presence of the United Nations forces. But the price has become high, which Norwegian politicians of today must admit, one would think. Official figures show that 21 Norwegian women and men have lost their lives in service in Lebanon during these years, and more than 80 have been injured to a greater or lesser extent. In addition, a number of soldiers have suffered psychological sensitivities. These soldiers, which are believed to be about 5 pst, according to the defense's stress-testing team. of the total international forces, will have to deal with their problems in the future, as a personal problem for the individual or for the rest of his family. When the Norwegian government in 1978 decided to put forces at the disposal of a United Nations operation in Southern Lebanon, the defense was like a novice to count in such situations. Most of it had to be learned along the way, and it was hardly possible to avoid some mistakes being made before 1990. For example, Norwegian officers lacked knowledge of local conditions, which resulted in serious incidents in the early years. Various threats to life and related traumatic experiences in Lebanon are destroying the lives of individual soldiers. In this area, compensation for occupational damage is laborious. If you had a broken arm, the replacement would have been paid after only a few months. But if the situation is that one has been threatened with a charge of weapon against the detonation, does it not justify any kind of replacement? The State Pension Fund denies persons – soldiers – professional damages in such circumstances, or episodes, as mentioned here. Because of special experiences, some have developed so-called post-traumatic stress syndrome and, in fact, cannot work in the workplace. But the law today does not cover load damage, and that is what the Progress Party will change. Soldiers with mental damage must have the opportunity to be compensated — including those not covered by the scheme before 1990. In 1999, it was about 15 soldiers, but there's probably some darkness here that doesn't get to the surface. Although UN personnel must count on a high level of tension, there must be mechanisms to cover mental disorders caused by blind violence. It is regrettable that no other party will recognize this relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e362	Let me first express a huge disappointment that the other parties are not following up on this matter. If you look back at the previous case that was dealt with, you will see that there was a great deal of consensus in the committee, and everyone realized how stressful it was for the soldiers who were in the Japanese prison camp. And now one in one way just puts a line over all of our -- the time young -- soldiers who suffered stress damage in Lebanon. One might try to overshadow the seriousness of what was involved in having a UN service in Lebanon. I served in 1986, in quota 17, and then the calm situation was there. Nevertheless, in that quota too, there were individual traumatic experiences for my colleagues, such as the United Kingdom. they were sent home because of mental damage. There were also episodes in that period when Norwegian soldiers were killed; they went on land mines under patrol. There were also episodes that time, where soldiers lost their legs because they walked on land mines under patrol. There were also episodes at the time when they were in the post office and were powdered with ointment after ointment from the turbulence in southern Lebanon. And that there are no others in the Norwegian Grand Prix who understand that this has been stressful for that youth, for the soldiers, whom we sent at that time, and who were pure young people – they were sent down before they had served first time – I think I'm a paradox. I really must be allowed to say that. And it's quite true, as my colleague Stag says, that at that time – in 1978, 1979 and 1980 – the knowledge of sending soldiers into war was equal to zero. I would recommend those who vote no here today, to travel to Ebel es Saqi, and they will see the memorials with the beautiful words set up over Norwegian soldiers who have fallen into service in Lebanon. That's where they've kind of recognised it, but in Norwegian history, we're not going to do it. I must be allowed to say: I am ashamed on behalf of the Norwegian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e373	Earlier today, there has been a debate around Norway and Norway in terms of peacekeeping operations abroad. In this context, it was very important for Norway to contribute to international operations. And I totally agree. We're going to do it. But I also think we have to think a little bit about how we have treated our former soldiers who have been out in such service. It's important that we try to get into the situation that met these soldiers who came down to Lebanon in the first quotas. I don't think anyone in this room, except perhaps those who have served in Lebanon, can figure out what it's like to experience the bullets whining around your head, what it's like to watch the friends walk on landmines and get their legs torn off, how it's always to experience the pressure that you can get shot at any time. I think it's very important that we settle with ourselves because we've really forgotten these soldiers after they come back to Norway – because that's actually what we've done. Today, we have a lot of focus on people with mental disorders, and finally, we have begun to grasp this. When these soldiers came back from Lebanon after the first quotas, it was not the attention given to mental disorders as it is today. And we actually have a number of episodes where we see the late effects of the experiences you've had. I want to challenge the Council of State. Unfortunately, although the Storting is now going to vote on the solution proposed by the Progress Party, I still hope that the Council of State, when she returns to its office, will address these issues in a proper way – for I think the Council of State will do that. And I hope that you will at least take a good look at the matter and assess whether there might be other ways to solve this issue. Because it seems to me that it might not necessarily be disclaimer that happens in this room, but that you might disagree in the very way of solving it. I respect that. But then I also hope that the majority in this Chamber, together with the Council of State, have an alternative way of solving this, which can be submitted to the Stortinget, so that this chapter can also be closed to Norwegian peacekeeping forces in a proper way, and show that we take care of those we send out, who do a job for Norway, in a proper and transparent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e384	It was a quiet assembly, a very quiet assembly. The fellow man and the representative Odd Einar Dørum are in the back of the room. I had expected that when the Left has no representative in the committee, he would at least have taken the floor as a former Minister of Justice in such an important case in principle for the individual and the individual. But there's no left up what they say in party speeches. The right and the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Hernæs, has not explained the challenges he has been facing. What will Right do to these honorary women and men who have come up in a difficult situation of life, who have problems and who have made an effort for the Kingdom? The Labour Party does not find it worth taking the floor in the matter. And the Christian People's Party, which is to protect the good, the Christian basic values, and talks about human dignity – what respect for human dignity is the Christian People's Party here showing toward these persons? No one. And that is indicative of the discussion and debate. I had hoped that some others could at least stretch their hands, not towards heaven, but towards the President and ask for the floor to explain from the Parliament's pulpit why they have the position they have in the matter, and not forget these people in the way they do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e399	I feel that the excess rose that became part of me earlier today has been cancelled. I have to answer the representative, Kleppe. He has achieved that I have come up to the pulpit. I will do so in such a way that I would refer him to Mr Nesvik's posts, in front of his own, where he said that he respected the fact that other representatives in this Chamber thought that the same could be achieved by methods other than the grotesque exaggerations that we now hear from the speaker of the Progress Party and that are not at all reflected in the comments of the representatives of the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e406	It's almost not to avoid being provoked to go to this pulpit on the basis of the representative Kleppe's self-appointed judicial function over other representatives and other parties in this Chamber. If the representative Kleppe had taken the time to read the settings that were available, he would have received an answer to the questions he is asking, and he would not have had to insinuate anything against other colleagues in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e413	Vidar Kleppe has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e417	I can assure you that the setting is fine-read – cross and cross. We from the Progress Party believe that the recordings that have come from the people involved in this matter have not been taken seriously. It is, after all, from the pulpit of the Great Britain that you have to explain what the individual parties think. Although the position says something, I did not realize that it was will to a sufficient extent to meet the demands of the Progress Party. But I now find that the representative and the rapporteur, Bjørn Hernæs, felt that there was a solution here. As I interpret the rest of the committee, which is silent, and as the rapporteur has said, I look forward to a quick examination of this matter, as the Minister of Justice assured us in the previous case we were dealing with, of those who were in Japanese captivity. So then we can all say that we are satisfied with this discussion and the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e424	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e437	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e504	During the debate, Mr Stensaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, which was included on page 10 of the vote. The President refers to the fact that the proposal has been corrected by the proposer. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The frequency charge is removed on DCS 1800 and not applied on GSM 900 and UMTS.’ There will be a vote on the proposal from the Progress Party and then on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e535	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Øystein Hedstrom on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and then on the motion for a resolution. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the sale of the State’s shares in Raufoss ASA. The sale is made in a manner that provides a basis for the administration of necessary equity to the company.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e560	Proposal No. 2, from the right, says: ‘The decision requests the Government to sell remaining holdings in Raufoss ASA after the planned share issue has been completed.’ Proposal No. 3, from the right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to reduce its ownership of Nammo AS to 34 p.m., following the acquisition of Raufoss ASA’s shares.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e719	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e733	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Finn Kristian Marthinsen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 2, by Kristin Krohn Devold, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 3, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1 and 2 are included on page 4 of the configuration, while the proposal of the Socialist Left Party is reproduced on page 1, first column, of the setting. Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, has been converted into a transmission proposal and changed accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess changes to the rules on labour immigration if it finds during the spring of 2000 that additional labour is needed for the Norwegian economy.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal by the Socialist Left, and then over the proposal by the Right. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up a proposal for a fixed rate of labour immigration per year. years. The scheme shall be based on an application and shall be selected by a neutral and non-discriminatory method.’;» The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:18 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e774	We vote on the proposal from the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the light of a greater review of labour immigration, to submit to the Stortinget proposals for changes based on the fact that all self-employed persons who are provided with a job should be given a work permit for a limited period of time.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e806	During the debate, Mr Kleppe, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Act on Occupational Indemnity Insurance, so that a person assumes that the damage/disease shall be established after the entry into force of the Act irrespective of employment after its entry into force.’ An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-13-2.ana.ud1245e832	There is no record.
