ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e78	This harvest has created considerable uncertainty in many, not uncertainty as to whether there was a government budget or how it was reconciled to the seventh and last, but uncertainty as to whether the abnormal has actually been experienced is related to anthropogenic climate emissions. Coherent rains for months in Eastern Europe and high forest fires in Northern Ireland in November all say how abnormal conditions actually are. The world experiences climate change that is more unpredictable than ever, with storms and floods destroying the home and the life base of hundreds of thousands of people. At the same time, we note that in the climate negotiations in The Hague, Norway was hiding in the skirts of the United States and Japan, and that there was no climate agreement. The interest in ownership became seventh and last too strong, especially in the United States, but also in Norway. It was actually stronger than the will to agree. All of this is also a backstop to the financial debate, but it seems to have made a special impression on neither the conciliators nor the parties in this room. Because what will be adopted tomorrow is environmental policy in reverse. We're going to make amends of NOK 2.5 billion in fuel taxes, which will lead to increased emissions and increased car use, which will mean more pressure on the road network, especially around the largest cities, and that will mean more accidents. In short, there will be very bad environmental policies. In addition, when we do not pay attention to public transport, it means that we are moving further away from the targets set for Norway in the Kyoto Protocol, whether or not we reach agreement in The Hague. This simply means a break for Norway in the field of environmental policy. SV is unfortunately alone to take environmental policy seriously. The climate change that is now taking place is affecting everyone, including truck owners and Frp people who do not like the existence of climate problems, because hiding their heads in the sand is not useful, or – let's say – hiding their heads in a petrol tank and hoping that the climate normalizes. We just can't take that chance. It requires some action, and SV instructs some of them. The best measure might have been to have zero VAT rates for public transport in the short term. It would have been a very accurate way of raising investments in line networks and materials, and it would have been a powerful germ for inspiration for public transport companies to invest more to improve material. But what we also want to indicate is what we have called performance-driven financing of public transport. This means that you get more money the more passengers you are able to carry. So that means bonus money, that means that it's just going to be a germ for the airlines to carry even more people. This is also to be paid for through Storting's appropriations. However, the most important measure recommended by SV is to go against what the majority in the Chamber advocates, i.e. the cut off of petrol taxes. Just this cut is $2.5 billion. These $2.5 billion could have been spent in a completely different way to meet the climate problems we're facing. And these climate problems are not created by SV, or found by SV. Norway has unlimited opportunities. To quote the Prime Minister, Norway is the society of opportunity. We have greater financial freedom than any other country and a few generations ahead of us. In short, we're a society that floats over milk and honey, but we abuse the opportunities we have by letting the welfare state go on water and bread. Because it must be a paradox for more than SV that the bathing pools that we built in the schools around the country in post-war Norway, we cannot afford to have heated water in today. Or is there anyone who thinks that today we could afford to build Bergensbanen, which in its time cost about an entire state budget? Is there anyone who thinks that Norway in 2000 or 2001 could afford to build Bergensbanen? My answer is no, I don't think it would have been financially responsible. But our great economic freedom wants to use, and we especially want to use it in five important areas. We wish: sustainable environmental policy, a massive commitment to education, a fair distribution among people in Norwegian society, but not least between the public and private sectors, a stronger commitment to international solidarity, a strengthening of the economy of municipalities; We create room for this through redistribution, by increasing the state's revenues and by using something more oil money than the majority does. The fact that SV wants to spend a little more oil money is simply to show that there is a room for action in the economy. That means there's no sacred line saying that exactly this number we can use, and we can't use that number. That's when an alternative investment, not just in foreign exchanges, but investing in education is an investment that for society in the long run will waste far more of itself than many other ways we can invest our money. The focus on education is necessary for many reasons, but not least to prepare the transition from our oil-smurred and oil-dependent economy to the green knowledge society that we will live on in the future. Therefore, investing in education and the environment is the best investment our society can make for the future. In education policy, there are two main pillars in particular. One is a massive upgrading of primary school, and the other is a programme to make Norway a leading research nation. That means we need to spend more money on education and research. It means lower pupils in the class, it means better training for teachers, it means greater PC coverage in school, and it means not least making room for greater diversity both in teaching and in teaching methods. But succeeding in this actually costs a few kroner, which SV is willing to pay. We want a four-year programme for upgrading Norwegian primary schools, a programme costing DKK 10 billion, which will mainly be investments in worn-out school masses, post-school education, PC coverage, lower student numbers and everything that creates a diverse, exciting and luminous school, and not a school of decay. In addition, we want to invest massively in research. The survey has decided that Norway should rise to a level such as the OECD average in terms of research efforts. It is a major paradox that Norway at this point is far behind most countries that it is natural to compare with each other. Unfortunately, we have a long way to go. That means that the funds we want to spend on research, we want to get from two different sources. One is that we want the Storting to give more money. But what we're recording is that it's hard to get a majority for increased appropriations through state budget treatment. That means that we think it makes sense to put some of our oil billions in a fund where the returns can go to research. So we want to set up a basic research fund that makes colleges, universities, and not least the Research Council have the opportunity to get a basic grant that means that we do not lag behind in the fight for the crowns. So we want to take $10 billion of the oil fund to a separate fund, where the return is going to go to basic research every year. This will also be a good, stable and long-term way of financing Norwegian research policies. I record that there is a fund for research. It's SV positive, but we think it's necessary not only for applied research, but also for basic research. I feel relatively confident that this proposal over time will gain wider support than it does in this matter, simply because investing in research and education is not primarily an SV issue – this is a matter for the entire Norwegian people, and a matter for the whole political landscape. In one area, SV is happy that we finally seem to have the majority with us, namely that we finally introduce taxes on dividends. For nine years SV has fought solely against the deep injustice that lies in our tax system after the 1992 tax reform, namely that labour and capital are taxed so completely differently. The agreement has introduced tax on dividends in a modified version, but the principle has now been introduced. In fact, the conciliators say that a larger tax reform will be needed until next year, which will make it possible to ignore it. But nevertheless, I would like to stress what the committee leader, Dag Terje Andersen, said today: this is one of the most targeted forms of taxation you can have of those who have the most in Norwegian society. That's how a small part, 5 pst., of the Norwegian people, receives more than 90 pst. of all the dividends on shares, and this dividend has increased dramatically throughout the 1990s. If you take the state and also foreign shareholders, you're told that there were $68 billion in dividends last year. All of this cannot be taxed, but all that is on the hands of Norwegian shareholders can be taxed. We are pleased that this proposal will now be adopted, and will give it our support, even if we originally wanted a higher rate than the settlement partners agreed on. We also believe that it was a proper measure to propose a short-term cost. This measure was also supported by the Government's original proposals. It must be nice for the Minister of Finance to see that there are some who support the proposals he makes, about a redistribution in Norwegian society. The main reason why this was a good proposal was that it was a short-term measure – moving labour and resources from the private sector to the public sector. And if that's what we really need, it's a upgrading of the public sector. This means that we need to have more hands in order to solve the major challenges facing the welfare state. This does not mean that SV sees this as a permanent measure, but in a situation where the Norwegian economy is running high, this was a proper measure. Unfortunately, through the conciliation, the cyclical charge has been removed and changed to two other relatively useless reforms, namely changing depreciation rates and introducing a separate short-term cost for construction, which means that there are far fewer now paying taxes and that are much less targeted. SV had a strong wish that Schjøtt-Pedersen would get through his proposal, because we believe that it was a proper reprioritative measure. It is said that the pressure in the Norwegian economy is so great that no more money can be put into it. This means that the SV is partly correct. But that means that one of the biggest challenges facing Norwegian society is to release free hands. It simply means that either many of the hands we have today have to work in other places, or we have to give them more skills and knowledge. That means that we want the Government to come back to the Stortinget, preferably in the spring session, with a plan for how to manage to free the labour force from the labour force we already have, so we get people who are not at work today, to get to work, and for how to soften the migration of labour in ways that make it manageable for Norwegian society. It simply means that if we are serious about the pressure in the economy because of labour shortages, then we have to figure out how to get more labour. The welfare state and not least private enterprises need to get their hands off the job. That means I challenge the government at this point. This is a point I would think it would be possible to sank broad support for. One of the many things that have not been addressed in this agreement, and which I have registered that there has been a great deal of interest around, is the 70 000 poor children in Norway. Many proposals are being promoted here with redistributive measures, but the biggest shame we have is that we still have poverty in Norway. SV indicates many measures for how to do something in such a direction. This isn't expensive. It takes a relatively modest part of the state's resources, but at the same time it will be possible to get rid of something that is a disgrace, namely that there are many children who cannot afford to go on birthday, there are many children who cannot afford to participate in the joint activities that exist, and unfortunately we also see that there is so much self-payment on many of the leisure activities that exist, that many children do not have the opportunity to participate. This is quite possible for the Storting to do something about, if only you have the political will to re-prioritize in such a direction. That's SV. The high oil price makes the Norwegian society go high. That means we're lubricating our economy, and we can put incredible sums on foreign exchanges. At the same time, many people are losing on the high oil price, not least the world's poorest countries, where this represents a significant burden on government finances and on private business. These countries are also outside the international trade flows, which means that they do not receive automatic investment from, for example: the Norwegian Oil Fund or from other major investors. That's what SV wants to do. We want to spend DKK 5 billion on the Norwegian oil fund, which is to be invested commercially in the least developed countries of the world to stimulate business and food growth. We do not expect it to be the same return on these funds as if they had been invested on well-functioning exchanges around the world, but it will be a handshake to meet the poorest countries on their own premises, and on what they themselves say when they meet us, namely ‘Trade not AIDS’ – they will have trade, not just unhelp. This proposal is also a proposal that I challenge the majority of the population to think through more carefully. Because although it is SV that is promoting it, this is a sensible proposal of solidarity, which not only means that we provide more assistance but simply in these countries get processes going that are necessary to promote development and growth. In addition, SV wants to increase our aid budget by 400 million. kr so that over a few years we will achieve the objective that the Storting actually agrees with, namely that 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. In conclusion, I would like to say that the agreement we have had here is not particularly impressive. So you've managed to move $20 billion – you're very proud of that. 10 of these billions have not been financed, but pushed out into an unknown future. Nevertheless, one has managed not to prioritize what is most important. Environmental policy has not been prioritised in this agreement. Education policy has not been given priority in this agreement. The 70 000 poor children have not been given priority in this agreement. You've prioritised a little bit here and a little bit there, without goals and meaning. In short, there has been a budget that does not show direction. And if that's what we really need, then it's a budget that shows direction. [[The President clubs.]] I would also like to make suggestions – I guess that's why the President looks so hard on me?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e145	The President can see no other reason, and the President records that the proposals have been taken up! It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e150	As SV often agrees with the Workers' Party, in many respects I agree with the SV's policy objectives. But in the case of choice, it's fine. For example, let's do this. If we succeed in environmental policy, we must have people with us most in the right direction. If we are to succeed in reducing, for example: emissions from private cars, inter alia: develop greater flexibility in the collective offer. Although it is a national average, it is a cross-sectional dimension that the capacity utilisation of current offers is below 25 pst. And the challenges in this context are not just more money. The private car is a necessary means of transport, especially for families with children, and in relation to work travel, especially in the districts. In a situation where oil prices led to an increase of 2-3 kroner in petrol, idealism should give way to realism. When total petrol prices exceed what is acceptable to people with normal revenues, adjustments must be made. For this reason, the Workers’ Party proposes – and is supported by all except SV – to reduce the tax on petrol by approx. One of the two or three dollars that the petrol price has gone up with. And then my question to SV is, maybe a little bit in the name of pragmatism: how high should the gas price be before you react? It's like if we're going to get the little steps in the right direction, we're totally dependent on most people joining the policy that's going to bring us there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e161	The President will state that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e164	I'm sorry, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e169	Of course, I agree with Mr Dalheim that small steps in the right direction are good, but this is a major step in the wrong direction. Therefore, SV cannot support it. The point is that we don't have a particularly high price of petrol in international terms if you compare it with pay levels in Norway. But the price of petrol in Norway is high and must be high. Last year we registered for the first time a decrease in fuel sales in Norway. It was probably due to being close to the pain limit of the petrol price, but at the same time it was achieved what was the goal, that more people think about what alternatives exist. And that's where the Storting fails its task. While there are safe capacities in public transport, this is not where the main problem lies. The main problem is that there is not enough public transport in Norway. In the European context, we support our own public transport at the lowest level. Thus, countries such as Portugal and Greece are ahead of Norway in terms of how they want to subsidise public transport. And the point is: if we are to get a well-functioning public transport, it must be good, it must go frequently, and it must also be cheap. If you compare the petrol price and a regular ticket on Oslo Sporveier, you will experience that Oslo Sporveier has become twice as expensive, while the petrol price has not increased accordingly in the same period. I must also be allowed to say – but Mr. Dalheim is quite well—that when the petrol price was high, especially six months ago, it was due to the commodity price and not to the Storting tax policy. Instead of meeting the truck drivers, who say they have to have a lower gas price and diesel price to get this around, I would say the answer is completely opposite. The answer is that the more we manage to transport away from our roads into public transport, the less fuel the trucks use to get there, the faster they get, and the better capacity we get on the road network. So this is an evil spiral where we're starting in the wrong direction. In fact, SV is so brave that we allow ourselves to say it: the reduction that is now happening, if we had used the reduction to an offensive bet on others... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e178	The President requests that the steps now be taken down from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e181	That SV has been and still is a party that, through its policy, will rage jobs, and then preferably in the private sector, we have known for a long time. Through a tax policy based on making money, the Swedish authorities have provided a policy that has lost business, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, for funding. As you know, the government proposed a package that would shave the process industry. This package consisted primarily of the introduction of an electricity charge, the introduction of a conjugation fee and an increase in the sulphur charge. After the Workers' Party and the Centre's block agreed to redeploy tax applications to the usual male and female, some of these were removed. It was obviously not like SV, because they have proposed both the introduction of the cyclical charge, the electricity charge for industry, the deterioration in the split model and the increase in the sulphur charge. All of this was proposed by the Government because it wanted a transition of labour from the private sector to the public sector. It really means that one wants more bankruptcies in the private business. Is the representative, Mr Djupedal, aware of the implications of his proposal? This means that the process industry is closed down in Norway, and most are corner stone holdings in the districts. In reality, the SV proposal means a breakdown of district communities, such as the following: Sørfold municipality, Rana municipality and Mosjøen municipality. Djupedal writes in his comment on the electricity charge: ‘This is necessary to avoid the import of polluting coal power, gas power plants or new hydroelectric power plants.’ My question has to be: doesn't SV understand that when the process industry moves, it moves to countries where almost everything is based on coal and gas power? Isn't it better to have this world's most environmentally friendly process industry that Norway, after all, is located here in Norway, and especially in District Norway, with the pleasant side effect of keeping Norwegian jobs? Or is it such that there is an explicit goal from SV to get the jobs in District Norway closed down?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e197	There are some lines that are relatively predictable. This was one of them. I can reassure the representative Svendsen that throughout my working life I have been employed in a medium-sized private enterprise, which, of course, is constantly struggling to get things to go together. There has been an interesting and exciting professional background, because then one sees how tax policy actually works: it works negatively, but also positively. We have no desire for Norwegian jobs to be outsourced, but we want everyone to contribute fairly in order to also benefit from the overall welfare services of this society – which an enterprise does, both in terms of infrastructure, in terms of health and in terms of education. All Norwegian enterprises benefit from the Norwegian welfare state. I have not seen so far that a single Norwegian process industry company has moved out. What's going on? The requirements we have to impose on the process industry are the same as those we have to impose on all Norwegian industrial activities, including on Norwegian private individuals, namely that through the charging system we have to have such taxes and taxes that it re-distributes, and that it also changes behaviour. We support 1 øre electricity charge for the industry, but we do not do so without counter-performance. Because we want parts of this money to go into the fund for conversion, to save energy. Having a purely fiscal charge to drag money into the treasury, doesn't make any sense. I agree if that is what Mr Svendsen meant. However, it is through the kind of levy and the kind of fund-building that businesses can get incentives and research into how to save energy that the competitiveness of these companies is further developed towards other enterprises in other countries. Norwegian process industry is quite right world leaders in the environment, in how to use energy. But this has not happened for free; it has happened because the authorities have made demands on the companies. Thus they have become better, more competitive, which means that the Norwegian process industry is essentially the most competitive we have seen internationally. This is due, among other things, to the requirements of the authorities, but also to the fact that the companies themselves are competent. We do not promote any demands in this financial position that will kill a single Norwegian enterprise, but many of them, of course, have to change, and that is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e210	In his speech, the representative, Mr Djupedal, said: the environment is not a priority in the budgetary agreement. And in an article in the Newspaper two days ago, SV's leader, Kristin Halvorsen, says that the budgetary agreement has weakened the distribution profile, and that the budget is without environmental effort. I do not fully understand that there is a basis for such claims, including: because the average family comes out much better financially after the budgetary conciliation than was the case under the Government's proposal. Furthermore, the temporary dividend tax to be applied for next year is decorated, including: by introducing a bottom deduction of NOK 10000, which will benefit small savers. This must be a good distribution profile. Then we have achieved a tax reform next year that will reduce the difference between the taxation of capital and the taxation of employee income. It must be fair and give a broader tax base. When it comes to the environment, I would like to remind you that the budget agreement has led to a reinforced collective effort of 190 million. kr and monthly strengthening of both an additional, renewable energy sources and a good deal of other environmental measures. So if the representative Djupedal is willing to add to the rhetoric, it might be tempting to ask if he really thinks that the environmental profile is weak, and that the distribution profile is weak, through the current budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e222	The answer to both questions is yes. There is no offensive commitment to environmental policy in this budget, nor in the comparison. In particular, this is due to the fact that fuel taxes have gone to DKK 2.5 billion lower, which will lead to increased emissions, increased CO2 emissions and increased greenhouse gas emissions. This is, of course, a step in the wrong direction. The point is that if this type of action is to be taken, it must at least be compensated for by public transport. So there's nothing happening here. What this will result in is more car use, more emissions, more environmental problems. It will also lead us further away from achieving the objectives set out in the Kyoto Agreement. I think it was a very unfortunate move, and I believe that the truck drivers have had too much impact on the Norwegian store, for which there is no basis at all. So to which distribution profile exists in this budget. At my discretion, there is a weakened distribution profile, especially through the conciliation. The cyclical charge was an important redistributive measure for redistribution between the private and public sectors, share taxation was an important measure for redistribution between those with the most and those with the least. Both of these have been weakened by the budgetary agreement. In addition, there has been a general reduction in VAT on food which has a very poor distribution profile and which is then payable with a general increase in all other goods and services in the Norwegian community. I can't see that there's a direction and a distribution profile in this at all. In fact, I believe it is right to redistribute – active redistribution. I really thought the Christian People's Party was in deep agreement with that. But the proposals here are more marked by the fact that you've been sitting in Plaza for a late night and found out how to manage to get money for reforms that we'd like to have, like lower food prices, and then introduce some new reforms that are going to drag money into the state treasury that don't have an environmental direction and not a distribution direction. On the first budget of Schjøtt-Pedersen, I would say that the two proposals for a short-term tax on share taxes had both objectives and direction, and therefore SV has also expressed its sympathy and support for both proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e235	The representative Erik Dalheim began his speech by saying that he agreed with the objectives of SV. My problem at the moment is that I don't quite know what the objectives of SV are, other than some kind of status quo comment relative to where we are right now. And it is then significant that most of what has been talked about by the SV today as a policy of distributive importance, were the measures promoted by the Labour Party government in its original proposal. This means that SV has gradually been given strong competition from the current Labour Party government, which has obviously taken a strong step to the left since it can get such commendable publicity from the representative of Djupedal. Now there are some areas where SV and Right actually agree with the description of where bet areas should be in the future. We agree that we need to do something about labour supply, that it is an equally important tool as just redistributing labour internally between sectors in Norway. We agree that a drastic effort is needed in schools to meet the challenges of the future — schooling, research, higher education. But I have repeatedly tried to get out of SV the understanding of how they believe that new businesses are established in a society, how new growth power is created when, after all, you know that most jobs outside the public sector that will be in this country in ten years' time are not yet created. So when you look at the budget line that Mr. Djupedal has presented here, it's a setup that tightens up on all the elements in our system that had to help us create new jobs, that individuals were willing to invest and establish their own business. It's a split model, it's an increased wealth tax through the 80 pst rule, it's the cyclical tax that becomes an additional employer's tax on the employee you have to hire. The frame is long from SV's side. My question to SV is: how have you planned to create jobs in the private sector in the future with the budget you have presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e248	Let me commend the representative, Solberg, because in one area, in fact, SV and Right agree on the goal, namely that we have to create a green knowledge society – at least I hope you agree on that in the Right. That means a lot of action from the Stortinget, but not least it means that you want to bet on education, on research, on what's going to give future growth. Unfortunately, I think it is often verbal on the Right side, and that when you get to the actual appropriations, you don't follow up, because essentially this will be a growth that will come in public, through the education system we have, through the research institutions we have, through the universities and colleges. But it is clear that SV also wants a growth of all this in private business. Fortunately, many knowledge companies are established in Norwegian society, and SV want all of these knowledge companies to be happy, and we have no desire to beat them. At the same time, it is in a society that everyone should contribute. And I can't see that it's necessarily very positive that you have to make tax rules just because you're trying to get established jobs. If people were as simple as that, all Norwegian businesses should be established in Bangladesh, which doesn't have a tax system that catches up like that. But fortunately, entrepreneurs like people are most, complex people who like to live in a well-functioning society, where we have schools, where we have kindergartens, where there is a system that works. Thank you. This means that SV’s tax policy aims to have a fair tax system. This means that if you have a private enterprise or if you choose to be a wage earner, you have to pay the same amount to the community. The systems we have today have clearly favored those who do not sell their labour force but who have their own business. And we can't see that there's a lot of good examples of that. But we also want to target our support, so that we through e.g. development contracts can have that kind of growth. But we don't want, as I said, to beat the legs under Norwegian nutrition growth, on the contrary, I think it's very positive that people are betting their own money and knowledge to create businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e259	The representative, Djupedal, made a very interesting comment here today. He said that the more we get on public transport, the less diesel uses the trucks because there are fewer queues. As far as I know, the fuel consumption in the lorry industry in the West and in North Norway is sky high above the national average. There is no railway, there are no cows either, and I am familiar with the frozen salmon at least poorly collective, so I assume that the reasoning is seen in a different context than the Øystein Djupedal tried to get here. Otherwise, I have some problems understanding why the representative, Djupedal, was worried about the reduction in fuel charges. If you reduce the fees on food, it doesn't come down to a reduction in prices, but in greater margins to the dealer, according to Djupedal's reasoning. The same reasoning should well apply in Djupedal's head with regard to fuel taxes. In the weekend, the leader of SV, Kristin Halvorsen, said to the evening post: «I think SV is quite tiring by day». She continued to say, ‘SV shall try to be more effective at negotiating its heart issues with the other parts of the Stortinget, including the centre parties and the Right. This is a prerequisite for achieving more influence in Norwegian policy.’ When I hear that SV has been fighting for 10 years to get tax on dividends, perhaps the representative Djupedal should also have heard a little about his party leader. It brings me to my question to Djupedal. In the financial situation SV writes that the contractual partners will now change the sickness pay scheme. I wonder where the representative Djupedal got it from. We have said in the agreement that we want to look at measures in line with the Sandman Committee's position to reduce sick leave. I would like to think that SV is also very concerned about it, and I would like SV to be able to contribute constructively precisely to reducing sick leave, which is one of the biggest problems we have in our professional life today. Where does the representative of Djupedal come from that the contracting parties intend to change the sickness pay scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e280	Let's start with the charges. That is exactly what is happening, including in terms of reducing fuel taxes. It's not that the whole reduction that Stortinget decides will benefit the consumer. Of course, there are many smart gas station owners who are careful to make a small impact that you would not otherwise have had room for. This happens constantly when you reduce the fees. In a previous line change today, I asked what guarantee Norwegian consumers can have that they actually get a reduction in the food price. Of course, such guarantees could not be given by the representative Enoch. Of course, this is because when you stand at the store and a product costs 29,90 kroner and you have suddenly got a reduction in VAT of 12 pst., no one is able to take in the head how much this should have been. If you put on a fifty-eye or subtracted a fifty-eye, no one will be able to figure it out. Of course, all smart shopkeepers know that this reduction does not necessarily benefit the consumer. Anyone who has the most reason to be satisfied with this food tax reform is probably Rimi-Hagen, closely followed by Reitan and other major Norwegian merchants. They could get a profit that was initially intended for the consumer. It'll probably also show the future. Then to the health pay scheme. I am very pleased with the insurance that was now provided by the representative of Enoxsen. If that's how to understand that what's in the deal doesn't mean that you want to introduce a cut in the sick pay scheme, but you want to use other tools, then SV is very positive about it. We have been and want to be a guarantor that we have a health pay scheme that is the way it is today. But we're naturally concerned, like the representative, Mr. Enoxen, that we have an increasing curve in terms of the dissatisfied, an increasing curve in people who cannot use their labour and knowledge for the benefit of the society they want to work in. That means that if there is now a guarantee, I will accept it with my open hand and I will at any time be willing to talk to both the center and others about what other positive means are to enable all people to use their labour force for the benefit of the society we want. That means that I probably interpreted the agreement too far, and I would like to say that we will then continue a constructive dialogue on how to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e289	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e292	We in the Left, together with the Centre, have had a significant impact on our policies in this budget. There have been re-priorities of approximately 22 billion kroner, more than in any previous budget. Many major and important leaderships are secured by majority voting. The government's original draft budget was hardly suitable for internal use in the Workers' Party. From the left's point of view, the government's proposal was very poor. Never before has it been necessary to move on such large sums in a government budget proposal. The government would increase taxes and taxes by NOK 12 billion and leave almost all of this burden on the workplace. It is not possible to draw a clear distinction between working life and consumers. If the jobs are weak, the workers are affected. Loss of work is a disaster for the unemployed. It is incomprehensible that politicians from the Workers' Party so openly stood up and said that jobs have to be laid down in order to free people into the public sector. Here is one of the fundamental differences between the Left and the Labour Party: the difference in the view of the development of Norway. Norway, with the world's second highest purchasing power per year. citizens, need more labour to cover all the well-being we demand, but the Workers' Party will build up the jobs involved in creating this wealth and transfer the labour force to the public sector. On the other hand, the left will safeguard the jobs of the competitive part of business and instead build down the millimetre bureaucracy to reduce control tasks and to transfer freed resources to service to the inhabitants. At the same time, we will ensure access to labour through increased labour migration. These people and their families will offer Left to become full citizens of Norwegian society. The left and centre have shifted the pressure from the increased employers’ fee of the Workers’ Party, which blindly affects jobs in private and voluntary Norway, to measures that bring contributions to the single fund where there is something to be collected, from profits in companies that are doing well, and from measures that facilitate the pressure on the property market, in the hope that housing prices can be brought under control. The next year's budget will give rise to higher education and research under the budgetary agreement, which is the very seed of the knowledge society of the future. The environmental profile is far better than in the Workers' Party's proposals. The most serious threats to the workplace have been rejected. We've completed a historic move on the government budget. It is particularly beneficial for knowledge-based working life, for future jobs and for the basis for the welfare of future generations. In a number of areas, an increase has been made in relation to the original proposal of the Workers' Party. In particular, the left will point to the following: A raise of more than 300 million. SEK to universities, colleges and research and 500 million. kr extra to the Research and Innovation Fund. That's $190 million. SEK in increased appropriations for collective investment and SEK 60 million. kr for increased investment in energy saving and renewable energy. Watercourse, outdoor, Local Agenda 21 m.v. be increased by 25 million. kr. Remote heat producers are exempted from electricity charges. Electric cars get a zero rate for VAT, which will make it much more profitable to choose this environmentally friendly car option. The municipal economy is strengthened by 1 250 million. kr. The housing stock is increased by 160 million. kr, which is a direct aid to those with the least of their lives. That's 75 million. more about culture, in particular about voluntary Norway and about the culture around it. At the same time, voluntary Norway saves approx. One hundred million. kr by failing to introduce the cyclical tax of the Workers' Party. Increased investment in nutrient research by 25 million. kr. There will also be increased appropriations for Norway profiling and for export promotion. Increased road investment of 115 million. NOK 80 million. kr at reduced ferries. The government provided the worst budget for higher education and basic research in a very long time. With the budget agreement, there will be room for better provision for students, for enhanced basic research and for more recruitment positions for young researchers. Travel life is important for jobs throughout Norway, and VAT would hit the industry hard. It was important to exempt travel life from VAT. And we've made sure that petty definitions of culture are removed, so that even circuses are exempt from VAT. The same applies to passenger transport. Public transport needs real investment, not new costs. In addition to the exemption, the centre has a majority of 190 million. kr to bet on public transport. We have received a majority to remove the investment tax from 1 January 2002. Removal is important for job innovation, especially in the knowledge-based industry. The investment fee is a through-the-clock system, which encourages immediate exercises in the grey areas of business. It strikes at random, and there are significant collection costs. The removal is an important step for the project ‘Simplifying Norway’ of the Left and Centre. The Workers' Party's proposal to increase the employer's fee by 1.5 pst., the so-called cyclical cost, is not implemented. Public expenditure was intended to be compensated for the levy, but private and voluntary Norway would have significantly increased costs. The voluntary sector has its highest wage and salary costs, and voluntary organisations alone would increase compensation of employees by more than 100 million. kr. Instead of an increase in the employer’s contribution, the majority of the business cycle tax is on non-residential buildings. This charge is targeted and reduces the pressure in an industry with a high labour shortage. Lower investment in non-residential buildings shall release resources for increased housing. The new tax system to be investigated for 2002 is a step towards the principles of the Left on flat tax and green tax. The current system has great weaknesses in the great inequality it is in taxes on labour and taxes on capital. Reduced marginal taxes and increased base deductions shall make working more profitable. Increased deductions will primarily benefit those with the lowest income. This will ensure better distribution. At the same time, the neutrality of the tax system must be maintained, with equal taxation of different types of capital income. The tax system is getting simpler and fairer. These principles shall underpin the new tax reform which will be presented next harvest, as laid down in this budgetary agreement. The left and centre have managed to reverse the heaviest suggestions for aggravating the divisional model. The sharing model is the very symbol of injustice and discrimination between those who work in their own company and must tax up to 55 p.m. and passive owners who attend board meetings every two months and drop 28 p.m. tax. It is therefore very important that the Left and the Centre parties have a majority in favour of removing the divisional model from 2002 onwards. In the revised national budget 2000, the bulk of the population asked the Government to submit proposals for exemptions from taxes on wealth on economic assets. The government promoted something other than what the majority wanted. In addition, the Workers' Party would finance this by abolishing the share discounts and the 80 pst. rule. I see this more as a provocative attempt at rematch from the Labour Party than an attempt to comply with the majority decision of the Stortinge. The Workers' Party's proposal to remove the stock discounts and the 80 pst rule would lead to a tax tightening of the backbone of Norwegian working life – another attack on active owners and their businesses. On the left, the Workers' Party is asking for a new proposal for a system of tax exemptions on industrial assets to come back to Stortinget. It's no big secret that the Left is opposed to the dividend tax. The adverse effects are somewhat reduced by a reduction in the rate to 11 pst. and a bottom deduction of NOK 10000, which protects the small savers. However, the most important thing is that dividends tax becomes a purely temporary tax, which only applies to 2001. The budget agreement was mainly well received. The main thing is that the centre has managed with a budget that seems to prevent interest rate rise. No tightening is more unsocial than increased interest rates. The left and the centre have again taken responsibility for Norway’s government budget. It is not our responsibility to help the Workers' Party with the state budget. However, it is in the Left's historical tradition to take responsibility for creating a government budget that guarantees well-being, improves distribution and reduces threats to the environment. Both right parties have submitted such extreme budgetary proposals that they have left themselves out of any possible cooperation. The Centre thus had to take responsibility for the country's budget. The left and centre parties have shown for two and a half years that we can rule, and we are willing to take responsibility for the country's best in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e369	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e372	All the parties at Stortinget have expressed concern about the development of costs of sick pay and disability benefits. The political parties in the Grand Duchy have had different approaches to meeting these challenges. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to ensure basic economic security for all, either at work or through social security schemes. We believe that working life can be adapted in such a way that more people have the opportunity to work. On the other hand, we have no faith that solutions that suggest that a person cuts down on benefits that people need are the way to go. That is why we want to protect the health pay system in the future. In the budget configuration, both the Progress Party and the Right go in to introduce qualifying days and to reduce long-term benefits, by 20 and 10 pst respectively. We are aware that there have been differing attitudes to the sick pay scheme between the centres. The left has had a different position than the Center Party, which has so far stood out as a guarantor of the scheme, in the former central government. The position of the Left and Christian People's Party can be crucial as to how the position of the Sandman Committee is followed up. Can the representative Johansen confirm that, in this context, the Left will protect the sick pay scheme by not introducing withdrawal days or reducing the benefits of the long-term sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e379	I can answer yes to the question, that the left does not want to introduce Karen's days. But the enormous costs we have over the public's pension for the health pay system – $20 billion from the state's hand, and as much on the company's hand – are growing to such an extent that the Sandman committee has recommended that we do something about it. The left supports the Sandman Committee's proposal for a moderate tightening. We don't want to rage the system, as some other parties say, but it must be obvious that when we lubricate well-being thinly over all of us, from big business representatives and directors, it's a question of whether we can continue in this way. Because what's happening now is meeting those who really need it. We in the Left have been concerned with a moderate tightening, for example. to be able to save approx. $2 billion to extend the sick pay period from 52 to 80 weeks for those who really suffer in our society. These are the ones that fall out of the scheme after the first year is over. Then the disaster happens to many people. Then you have to leave the house and home, because you don't have arrangements to catch up that someone is long-term ill. We in the Left have wanted to take the consequences of this. That is why we hope that the Workers' Party will also take the Sandman Committee's investigation seriously, and that together we can find a moderate solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e384	I record in the newspapers that no one understands Terje Johansen and Left, neither NHO nor anyone else in the business world. For thought, the Left had reduced the level of taxation for business and the rest of the population from being disastrously high to just becoming a dramatic increase! The left, with Terje Johansen at the head, obviously does not understand that the business community and the population are not cheering in joy that we received SEK 11.8 billion in tax increases as a gift from the Left as an active member of the established Workers' Party Centre block. Clearly, the left is more concerned with being in a majority than with the outcome of the majority. I'm not least surprised that business doesn't throw itself in boundless admiration for the feet of the Left. My first question will be: what should business thank the Left for? Is it “only” 11 pst. tax on dividends on shares? Or maybe it's 'only' 10 pst. cyclical tax, or ‘only’ deterioration of the depreciation rules? Or perhaps the ‘only’ is the disappearance of the vans used by the small and medium-sized enterprises? I'm just asking! But maybe it's business that misunderstands? Then it must be the ordinary man and woman in the street who are pleased with the Left's efforts as a budgetary partner. My other question is therefore: Is there perhaps an increase in the electricity charge they should be happy about? Or is that the increase in VAT? Or maybe it's 10 pst. increase in the annual fee, or 15 pst. increase in the Equation Tariff of dwellings? I'm just asking. But maybe the left has forgotten to ask the only group that you know has reason to be happy. It's smugglers and home-burners who have kept their market with black revenues, thanks to the centre parties. If the Left wanted, the Progress Party prepared, as we have done twice before, to save Norway's population and business from tax increases. But obviously the Left did not want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e394	Now the Left has been out on the track and influenced the game, and scored goals, and then the Progress Party has been sitting high on the stands and designing its own game. And the calls from there are now ringing violently. I have to tell the representative Svendsen that the main problem in Norway is that we are so rich that we have a purchasing power that far exceeds the capacity we have domestically. Therefore, it is necessary to keep a certain degree of tightness in the Norwegian economy so that interest rates do not increase, because it is the most unsocial that can occur. So the Progress Party not only performs to say no to the little tightening-up measures that we've now joined, but in addition, the 20 billion oil crowns are pulling into this fire. And Svendsen – the representative Svendsen – should be happy that he sits on the stand and escapes the fire that would have been if the Progress Party had proposed, would have been the case. What we have proposed is actually quite moderate. First, we've been in and taken something to the community where there's something to pick up, that's where there's profit. That's what you do by tightening your depreciation. We have taken something where there is something to pick up from consumers – from the electricity charge, because there they have the opportunity to save. It's just to shut the temperature down at home one degree, it's a little bit more. And then we've added 1 pst. VAT, so that people don't go all the way out to the malls before Christmas. This we think is necessary to keep the good economy we have in Norway, and it's probably okay for the Progress Party up there from the Tribune. If they look down on what's going on, they'll see that the game that we're doing is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e404	I note with some amazement that the representative Johansen wants to take the increase in VAT on advances in the pre-Christmas trade. There must be a new and creative form of budgetary work – a retrospective budget. The representative Johansen's main post was disappointingly pale. It is customary for the representative Johansen to speak with a voice that is inversely proportional to that party, especially when he speaks outside this hall. He started the budget work the current year by declaring that he was against a lowering of the food tax because it would have a distorted distribution effect and especially benefit the richest. He further stated that any dividend tax would have to be imposed on his corpse, and it could possibly explain that the effort in the main deposit was a little pale, that he has had a near-death experience. Maybe it's the three percent he's managed to reduce it, which makes him even survive? In Today’s Business Life, the representative Johansen wrote at the end of September: ‘It is one of the greatest defeats in the history of the Workers’ Party that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is now launching taxes on dividends, because he fully knows that there will be an empty symbol with less than two billion dollars in income. A museice in the context of the state budget. The problem for the rest of us is that the Ap, with this desperate attempt to counter the criticism of Difference Norway from its own ranks, goes from being the symbol of security and support to a deevaluation of Norway to the banana republic in terms of predictability for investors, and thus insecurity for Norwegian jobs.’ Does the Left also consider including in its principal programme that it is now in favour of the Republic – in this case banana republic?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e423	I will stick to the substance of the representative's pay statement. What's the difference between the Left and the Right of the Storing is that the Left is involved in trying to influence the evolution. It would not have been possible to cooperate with the Right on the budget proposal that they have made. It wouldn't have been possible at all to create a majority for in this hall. And instead of then standing on the sideline and being concerned with their own affairs, so to speak, the Left has been involved in turning a number of fatal estimates both against education, against jobs and against the environment, in a more correct direction. But it's true that when you have to cooperate with others, and especially when you're in a minority – which I have to admit – you don't get everything you want. It's true that dividend tax is a heavy symbol. I've survived the battalion. The rumors of my death are – as you can see, President! – excessively exaggerated. And I have to admit that there's one of many things in this budget that I'm not as excited about. But in terms of dividend tax, it must be said that we have now been determined by majority decisions that it is an intermesso. It shall be wound up after one year. That is, the pain is done less than if the business would have hovered in uncertainty because of this. There are many things I could plan to work with the Right about, but unfortunately they made an alternative that was completely impossible to find any reason to work with them about, so we never got that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e434	Some of the most interesting thing about the central government was the emphasis it put on aid policy. It is therefore disappointing to see that the centre parties that budgetary settlement partners have preferred cheaper food to well-born North rather than increased assistance. The only approach to strengthening the area of assistance in the conciliation is a very small and moneyless point far below the text of the agreement. This point concerns the investigation of a new assistance fund. The Left, as one of the budgetary contracting partners, has then agreed to provide the Government with a development fund that can be used for assistance purposes. This can, of course, be a good idea, and it can also allow for increased aid efforts, but it represents a very traditional aid intensity. There is also not much speed in this idea without a single penny suggested into such a fund. SV has launched another fund proposal which will benefit the poorest, and which involves much more innovation. We propose that DKK 5 billion of the oil fund be invested in the world's poorest countries to give these countries a chance to build their own business. We believe that Norway can withstand the fact that some of the oil resources are invested at a slightly higher risk, but also with a much greater chance of investment contributing to the welfare development of the poor. These two sides of funds are not at odds with each other, and I want to ask Terje Johansen if he and Left will support the SV's proposal to use some of the oil money to invest in poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e443	There is one good side to SV's proposal on foreign investment funds. It is that it does not affect the Norwegian economy. So we take a positive view of that and think about it. But when I hear the representative, Ruggedt, who is now running with half of the food tax, and who would like to use it for foreign aid, I have to remember that Djupedal has actually used these funds on the municipalities already. We're asked that SV make a choice there. In the case of the U.S., I dare remind you that it was the central government that took the big, active steps to give up the U.S. debt, so that it will be greatly reduced in the years to come. But the thing that's done that we haven't followed up the 0.9 pst goal. of the gross domestic product that we have, and which remains constant, is due to the fact that the growth in gross domestic product has been so high this year that there was simply no way to find all this money on the current budget after we had been through the greatest suppression of bad proposals that we have actually been included in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e452	First, until the last representative Johansen said. It's actually wrong. Growth in GDP is negligible for the Norwegian economy, and it is one of the main problems. How are we going to get GDP growth up? But then to Johansen's attempt to respond to a reply from Kenneth Svendsen, where I registered that the representative Johansen was very concerned about marketing the fact that the Progress Party was sitting on the Tribune while the Left was out and cutting the target. The husband of himself then! Here, Terje Johansen stands and is very proud that the Left in the area by area goes against the policy they normally pursue, the policy they try to sell to the voters. Here comes the tax consolidation of the times, which then affects small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I would like to repeat the questions from Kenneth Svendsen: How can Terje Johansen defend the fact that you are now hugging and have had the advantage of introducing a business cycle tax on commercial buildings? How can the Left defend that it is now being introduced 11 pst. tax on dividends on shares? How can the Left defend the introduction of reduced depreciation rates, which in addition should have retroactive effect? I hear the Left in other contexts talking about predictable framework conditions. How can we defend the fact that we are now getting an increased electricity charge for our businesses? And not least – when Terje Johansen’s own party leader, Sponheim, set up as a government council, he went to fight against the bureaucracy, but now we get the electricity tax police to go to the companies and check whether they use electricity for production or power for administration. This doesn't stand for believers, and then I think it's a little too easy to stand here and talk about shooting targets, when the target you're shooting at is yours.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e459	I have to say on behalf of the Left that I do not feel that we have done anything for ourselves. I dare remind the representative Jensen that she has been on a couple of budget negotiations with, among other things. Left, and I remember that the expression was: we held our noses, but we agreed to it anyway. We have not used such expressions about our cooperation with the Workers' Party today – note that, President. It is clear that there are a number of aspects of the budgetary agreement that have not been as left-wing wanted, but there are also very many that have become so. I think it was NOK 18.3 billion that was the entrance ticket for the Workers' Party in order to get at all to negotiate with the Centre. We wanted to remove the business cycle fee, i.e. 1.5 pst. the employer’s fee, which we believe has been blinded, particularly vulnerable jobs in districts, women’s jobs, knowledge jobs. We got taxed on travel life, which was a struggle against District Norway. We got rid of the worst attacks on the sharing model. A number of such things were implemented. Then we've had to endure some pain, but that pain is short-sighted. The dividend tax applies for one year, and – I was saying – those who have not understood how to avoid it do not deserve better. With regard to the short-term cost of industrial buildings, I see clearly that there have been some problems that are not intended, but we will get back to that. The whole purpose was to slow down over-expansion in the Norwegian property market on commercial buildings, because it has become a tax haven. The capacity that we're releasing, we're going to have transferred to residential construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e466	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e469	I have to start with a little comment on the last line chord change. I guess that's not so often that we hear undiscovered calls for tax adaptations made by fiscal figures, as we heard from the representative Johansen a short time ago. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the three central parties has provided the necessary clarification on the treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge. The agreement continues the main priorities of the draft budget presented by the Government in October. It's doing it by keeping it. increased commitment to well-being such as health, care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens more equitable national distribution, with strong redistribution through the tax system of tax on dividends and relief from tax on labour — and internationally through a strong increase in the means of assistance security for work and the personal economy through the responsible use of oil revenues in order not to increase the pressure on jobs and on wages The agreement for 2001 continues the budgetary work carried out by the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties last year for the budget. The Parties have jointly taken responsibility for prioritizing within the framework of responsibility and have been able to find a solution that is fully acceptable to both Parties. This differs from the budgets adopted by the Bondevik Government for the years 1998 and 1999, where the Progress Party and the Right voted in favour of the proposals of the Centre Parties only after their own draft budget had been voted down in the Grand Chamber. The government's budget proposal was identified as one of the most profiled that has been promoted for many years. There was room for increased investment in well-being by the fact that, after many good years, business has to contribute somewhat more to the community. The business cycle tax proposed by the Government has been replaced by other and similar business tightening and some of the tightening has been shifted to consumers. Taxes on dividends on shares are unless they are adopted as proposed by the Government. Differences have increased in the last decade. Most of the explanation lies in the payment of dividends on shares. The 5 pst. The richest receives 90 pst. of the dividend. Therefore, tax on dividends on shares is a very important measure for more equitable distribution. On the expenditure side, all the important bets on well-being are retained. Education and health have been strengthened through the budgetary agreement. In other words, the profile presented by the Government in its draft budget is guaranteed by the agreement with the central parties. This year, together with the State budget, the Government presented proposals for a comprehensive reform of VAT. VAT reform is a major clean-up that ensures the long-term income of the State through a broader tax base. It is important that a broad majority are now united on the implementation of this reform. The changes in the Government's approach to the VAT reform represent a large proportion of the changes related to the state's revenue from the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. This helps to inflate the numbers when assessing the extent of the deal. In the budget agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties, it was agreed to reduce the VAT rate on food to 12 p.m. from 1 July 2001. There was also agreement on exemptions from the VAT system for passenger transport, accommodation, travel agencies and some other establishments. The budget for next year provides room for more money for health, more for elderly care and more kindergartens. These are important contributions to the draft budget of the Labour Party Government and the continuation of the budgetary agreement. The municipalities get better out of next year's budget than has been the case in several years. With an income growth of DKK 5 billion, of which nearly SEK 2 billion is an increase in free income, municipalities are better able to solve important welfare tasks. When increased leave and teacher pay are compensated at the top of this, there is reason to conclude that the municipal scheme for 2001 is good. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties compensates, in addition to this municipality, for the additional costs of changes in the pension scheme, adopted in the Stortinget. The budget agreement has been well received in professional circles. It is a great strength that the Labour Party and the Centre parties can now agree on a continued balanced economic approach through negotiations on the State budget. It is the young families with high loans who are winners when the Storting will adopt a government budget to help keep interest rates down tomorrow. The Labour Party did not provide a separate budget option for 2000, nor do the Centre Parties do it for 2001. The agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Centre’s Parties on the budgets for the last two years is in this way significantly more extensive than previous agreements during this large-scale period. This has become possible because there is substantially less distance between the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties than between the Right Parties and the Centre's Parties. The alternative budgets of the Right and the Advance Party, as shown by the financial position, clearly show where the large dividing lines go in Norwegian policy. Their proposal for comprehensive tax relief must be paid through a weakened sick pay system, through less to municipalities and districts, and through less to the poorest in the world. In other words, their tax commitments are to be paid by reducing the number of working parties and the central parties by means of two budgetary settlements. In its alternative budget, the Right Taxes and Fees are reducing by approximately DKK 19 billion, the Progress Party by a total of DKK 40 billion. So who is going to pay this value according to the two right parties? Well, it's going to be cut into the sick pay system, which particularly affects women and older workers. For a typical industrialised woman, the Right cut in the sick pay scheme causes an income loss of more than NOK 4000 per year. The order of the Party provides an income loss of more than NOK 7000. But the rashes get worse for the long-term sick. With one year’s sick leave, the loss of income for the female industrial worker will be over NOK 23 000 with the Right’s draft budget. The Health Pay Scheme of the Advance Party causes an income loss for the same person of almost NOK 46 000. The right-hand parties also withdraw the aid. The right will take away DKK 2.5 billion and the Progress Party NOK 6.6 billion. In other words, they want one of the world's richest countries to reduce support to the world's poorest and war-torn regions. The right-wing parties will also cut the instruments against the districts. They will cut down on agricultural transfers and business schemes by billions. Furthermore, the arrangement of the Progress Party implies a tax failure of approximately DKK 6 billion for the local government sector. The budgetary agreement reached by the central parties and the Labour Party is then set up against the draft budgets of the Right and the Advance Party, very clarifying. The right-hand parties cut where the Labour Party and the Centre Parties agree to give priority by means of two budgetary settlements. It is a majority in this process that will give more priority to well-being, a strengthened local economy, district measures and international solidarity. The budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre Parties shows that the parties who want such a priority have shown a willingness to put less disagreement aside in order to get a majority for all the important things that we actually agree on. It benefits the inhabitants of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e534	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e538	I am not going to hold the representative Solberg responsible for the opinions of the representative Terje Johansen, but the Labour Party and the Centre parties have therefore negotiated an agreement. Now it is not many minutes since the representative Johansen stood on this pulpit and said that «those who have not understood how to avoid it do not deserve better». And that was by reference to the introduction of dividend tax. Is it the opinion of the representative, Mr Solberg, that there has been a tax system here that does not really have any value, because there are so many loopholes around it that most people want to bypass it anyway? Then it's interesting if it's part of the budget agreement's premises. In his main post, the representative, Solberg, said that it was bad that the Right Party and the Advance Party cut off the aid. But I want to send that challenge back. If it really is that the Workers' Party wants to help poor countries out of a disaster, how is it that the Workers' Party is not willing to relax on commercial blocs, relax on customs barriers or make it easier for developing countries to sell their goods to Norway? There are obvious conflicts of interest here. Suddenly, as Norway has its own special interests to protect, helping poor countries to speed up their economy is not as important. It'll be a little too easy just to talk about helping with unhelp when we're not willing to participate in free trade solutions, which are, in fact, the most important contribution to developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e549	As I stressed in my post, the Workers' Party believes that tax on dividends is a fair and fair tax. There has also been a clear political majority who wanted this tax. It has been expressed through opinions from at least part of the centre games for many, many months. The inner towing that has otherwise taken place there, I find no reason to comment, but what I commented on at the opening of my post was what I realized that the representative Terje Johansen said in a previous line change. Taxes on dividends are proposed by the government of Stoltenberg to be a temporary scheme, because they want to review a new tax system for capital and business taxation, and then to return to Stortingen with it, and then the dividend tax should also be included in the assessment. So the direction of the policy from the Labour Party's point of view is quite clear, and it is correct and it is important, and we are very pleased that we also get a majority in the Grand Duchy in this budgetary procedure. Then I have to say that there is so much to say about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party. To this extent, we would have no problem either with customs duties or with imports if the agricultural policy of the Progress Party were to be fully implemented. At least then there was no Norwegian agriculture to compete with, it would be a reality after the violent cuts in transfers to agriculture that the Progress Party stands for. And it'll be a little too easy when the Progress Party is balancing its tax promises and tax promises to cut the aid at NOK 6.6 billion and then tries to attack other parties that will maintain our decent level of aid to the poorest in the world, with the help of commercial blocs. It is also important to facilitate it in many areas, and it is also a policy that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e558	The main thing about this budgetary agreement is that a stronger effort has been made for key welfare systems and the environment, that we have been given a fairer distribution and better framework conditions for business, and that a responsible budget has been provided that has created a higher barrier to possible new interest rate increases. This was also confirmed by the Prime Minister in an article in the Newspaper today, but at the same time he admits that ‘the centre parties have had an impact on many of their demands’. Then it is surprising to read a record of the Minister of Finance meeting with LO on Monday 20 November, where he says: "We've achieved all the goals we've set ourselves through the relationship with the center. We agreed to absolutely all of our most important areas of activity». This can only mean that the Workers' Party went to these negotiations with a sincere desire to get rid of the investment levy, stop the pointless proposal on a more short-term wage bill, exempt public transport from VAT and halve VAT on food products, just to mention something. This must be the only sensible and obvious interpretation of the Minister of Finance's statements. I would like the Labour Party parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, to confirm this. Perhaps the Minister of Finance also thought that the budgetary agreement meant a significantly better arrangement of the framework conditions for business, thus ensuring many important jobs in the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e570	Now I'm not a special member of Ole Brumm's policy, but in this answer I think it's absolutely necessary to say that both are correct. It is true that the centre of negotiations with the Workers' Party has had an impact on important issues for the Centre. There's no doubt about it. But it is also true that the Workers' Party has been given the main priorities that were our profiles in the State budget, through the agreement. We have received that, as I stressed in my contribution, because the objective of fairer distribution through change in the tax system is firm, the objective of prioritising important welfare tasks is firm, and the objective of avoiding increased pressure on interest rates, which would, in turn, unfairly shift the burden on young families with large debts, is also clear to us. These important objectives of the financial arrangement proposed by the Government are established. But it does not conflict with the fact that even the centre parties have had an impact on many of their important issues. There was never any doubt that the workers' party government had to negotiate with other parties on Stortinget in order to get an impact on the reflection of the VAT system. VAT reform in itself is a difficult matter in connection with this budget, so that a negotiated solution to VAT reform was absolutely necessary. I believe that today we too must be able to see that it would not have been possible to implement this important reform unless it had just been the Labour Party and the Centre Parties that had negotiated a solution in that matter. And so far, it also serves the centre parties to the credit that they have set up and helped to facilitate that the Storting can now carry out an important clean-up reform in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e577	It's interesting to listen to this discussion between the government party and the center about what the deal really means. However, what is at least clear is that both businesses and individuals are coming out of it at a lower tax rate than they are doing this year, that in view of the strong demands that have been made for proper road construction in this country, a no has been achieved, that, in relation to a proper improvement in school and education policy, there has also been a no, and that the Government with open eyes allows Norwegian defence to have a level of preparedness that is very, very low and problematic. It is the reality of the settlement that has been reached. At the moment the government took over, Hill-Marta Solberg was very busy with all the uncovered bills the center left behind. Through this agreement, the Centre and the Government will leave a significant uncovered bill of approximately 10 billion kroner. Day Terje Andersen made a little successful attempt to turn away from this amount. My question is therefore, how should this uncovered bill be covered in 2002? Is it cut on the expenditure side, or is it at increased taxes? It is still unclear and the tax perspective is unclear. Valgerd Svarstad Haugland has rightly said in the VG on Thursday that the conciliation involves relief for ordinary people, but I understood on the line change instead that it is not immediately clear. That the Labour Party also has a bad conscience for tax purposes, when the Prime Minister here last week said that the increase in housing taxes was one of the weak points of the agreement. Then my question is: what is the tax perspective in this equation -- is it going to be relief, or is it going to be tightening up? At least it's okay that Hill-Marta Solberg has made it clear that when Terje Johansen says that the dividend tax should be removed, that it was an intermesso, he's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e588	There should be no doubt either in the Right or in others that the budgetary agreement, as it is stated, implies that the Government's proposals for tax reinforcements are adopted in the approximate order of magnitude proposed by the Government. It's a fact. What is also a fact is that the arrangement of some of these taxes has changed as a result of negotiations. In particular, the business cycle fee, which was a significant part of the tightening of government Stoltenberg, has received a different device. So it's not out of the budget, but it's got a different device. So the sum of the tax and tax snipers is about at the level proposed by the Labour Party Government. This was a deliberate choice because the Workers' Party actually believes that when the situation is as it is now in the Norwegian economy, with considerable pressure trends, with the need to prioritise important joint tasks, it is right to make certain tightening-up also to the business community. We can do that very well, and now it is a fact through this budget agreement that even the central parties believe that it is currently a proper instrument of economic policy. So until we push expenses in front of us. First of all, the most remarkable thing is maybe that it's just the right that asks that question. No one has such a need to explain how the future gaps in public revenue are to be covered as Right, of course, in addition to the Advance Party. In this context, the right is a kind of "Fremskritspartet light" version – they're very close to half. It's a fact, if we look at the financial situation of the Right, that there are large bills to be covered in the future as a consequence of the tax reductions proposed by the Right. So if it's the case that Jan Petersen believes that the Workers' Party needs to cover this into the future, which of course we have to take responsibility for, then certainly has the Right too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e595	The working party with the finance committee's leader had fun and ran ap with the Center Party in a line exchange earlier today. I win both the Working Party and others a good song. I'm surprised, however, that Dag Terje Andersen seems to ignore and explain the difficult situation of both many local people and many individuals in Kommune-Noreg these days. Let me point to two ratios. The central government initiated a consultation arrangement with the municipalities’ own organisation, the Municipalities’ Central Association. It is through the establishment of such a scheme that the debt situation in our municipalities has emerged in its entirety. The central government operated in its documents with between 3 and 4 billion dollars in losses last year – the result was 10 billion dollars, and there is a deal about these numbers. The second is the title of the older reform. Hill-Marta Solberg prepared a decision on a plan of action for the elderly to go over four years. I had like her successor, as a social minister, delighted to implement and follow it up. The two-year review shows that there are few municipalities that are able to build a health care home site for NOK 830,000. The cost is too many that double. The property to be provided by the municipalities must be financed either by cuts in other areas or by loans. I argued that Hill-Marta Solberg is summed up in the description of these two points.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e604	I understand from the reply from the representative Meltveit Kleppa that the response from Dag Terje Andersen earlier today fell heavily on the chest, since the line came up again. It should not be appropriate to ask any representatives of the Centre Party or others in the Centre Parties that the Workers' Party respond to charges when attempting to attack the Workers' Party's arrangements for the Municipal Sector. With respect to reporting – it is an area in which the centre parties, and perhaps the centre party in particular, are what it must be called political indebtedness, about in line with the municipalities, because there have been great promises that you were not close to being able to handle when you were actually in full responsibility and had the opportunity to do something. This does not in any way mean that the Labour Party does not take seriously the situation in Norwegian municipalities. It is also explained that the scheme laid down for Norwegian municipalities for 2001 is the best in many, many years. It's not really easy to explain. It is a fact that the situation of municipalities is significantly improved next year. It is also a fact, as the representative of Meltveit Kleppa points out, that the municipalities are building up debt through the action plans adopted by the Stortinget, but it is also a debt burden where the state has a responsibility to participate in and pay down this debt. The Labour Party has also, in the previous line change, underlined today that we do not believe that the right way to go in terms of the overall situation in the municipalities is through a system of indebtedness, because it would be to give priority to those who have behaved in such a way – innocently or not – that they have a disproportionately high debt burden, and it would be to deprioritise those who have run a tight economy, which means that they are not in the same debt situation. We cannot go into such a mistreatment in the municipal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e613	This agreement, which is initially a harmonious collection of the Centres between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, has led, in SV's opinion, to the Workers' Party having had an impact on the worst aspects of its policy, and the centre of the worst of its. The working party had some approaches in the direction of fair distribution that SV has appreciated. The introduction of tax on dividend dividends was important, we have fought for it for a long time – LO has done it the same way. But it's a profile that got weakened because the center parts were dissatisfied with it and wanted to weaken the distribution profile. That's why we've got a less fair budget than what was originally there. The best side of the central parties' policies is environmental policy, but they have never dared even to take part in the negotiations in such a way that an environmental policy that can withstand the light of day in the future could be achieved. When you spend $2.5 billion on a government budget to bring down the fuel tax, and pushes on public transport, it's a recipe for increased climate emissions. That is why this is a budget that goes the wrong way in terms of environmental policy, which could have been better in terms of distribution policy, even though no one has been concerned about actually doing something for those who are the poorest. When Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa now weeps for the municipal sector, there are crocodile tears. It's moved in billions of dollars than it's ever done – 20 billion dollars. And when you have not done what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa thinks today is most important, namely a strengthening of the municipal sector, then it must be because the centre has not prioritised it high enough. How in the world will it be possible to establish a policy in the countries of opportunity that points forward and tolerates daylight in ten years' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e622	Sometimes in this debate, the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party is under attack because there are so many changes that the budgets are not recognizable. In other contexts, the accusation is that it has been done too little in some areas. The truth is probably somewhere in the middle. It's not like it's moved for $20 billion in next year's financial arrangement. In that case, you add up in a whole new way, that you take two years in the sling to get into these sizes. But it is less important, and I can leave it as far as I can. It is a fact that in the budget agreement priorities have been made by strengthening both the islandside and the public transport side. I understand from SV's assessment of this that it is too small. In this area, the budgetary agreement should clearly contain even greater changes. I have to say that if SV believes that special dividend tax is an important step in creating a fairer distribution, it is difficult to understand that the difference between a good grip and a slightly immaterial grip lies somewhere between 14 and 11 pst. at the rate of tax. That can't be possible. But that's what constitutes the change at this point, which has now entered into the budgetary agreement. The profile of the working party in terms of dividend tax is located there. The difference is 3 pst. I can't imagine whether this is about fair distribution or not, in the eyes of SV, is about 14 or 11 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e633	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e637	Once again, we are dealing with the state budget, the last opportunity we have to say a few words about a full state budget during this majority period. And again, I record that the maritime sector is a balancing item. Once again, the reimbursement arrangements for seafarers in transport and in the seismic sector were cut. That again means that the apprentices who have invested in this industry must go ashore. They've been advised to bet on an industry that we in this room no longer want them to participate in. We again experience that foreign vessels take over the cargo along the coast. They sail with cheaper crews. This I took for myself during the treatment of the previous state budget, but there has been no change since last year. There have also been a number of improvements. The freight industry has no choice. It's flagging out. You're not allowed to fly to NIS, you have to switch flags. And then it's either to a convenience flag or maybe to switch to the Danish flag. Danish authorities have much better framework conditions than the Norwegian authorities have. Norwegian seafarers are just a fairy tale in a short time. I want to say it so strongly that the effort you had in the mid-1990s was to lure people into a business. Now they have to go ashore. There must be some grip, and those grips will not be taken. The industry is subject to increased taxes: increased CO2 taxes and increased sulphur taxes. You just compete, and the boats and the shipping companies go bankrupt. That is the result of the policy pursued. It's not much alike on land. You shouldn't think we're running a production that's extremely export oriented. Transport that goes on wheels is exactly the same. We have the world's most expensive fuel. Foreign cars take over the transport on the roads. That's the exact same thing again. We've had demonstrations that have documented this, but it doesn't seem to be useful. Once again, it is transport that is to be aged, and it is transport that is to provide money in the treasury. But it doesn't help much when it's the foreigners who take over. We also have a sector of ship protection, which concerns safe navigation and safe navigation. There is a slight increase in the allocation for the upgrading of rentals. The need is enormous in relation to what has been granted. There is a slight increase in the allocation of maritime mapping. But if we're going to keep up the pace we have today, we won't be able to measure the coast until we're far out in 2010. We are not able to upgrade the rescue service properly. No provision has yet been made for new rescue helicopters. There is still a dispute between the defence sector and the justice sector about what kind of helicopter we're going to have. The allocation to the rescue company was cut in by 10 million. kr, because we're not going to have a proper rescue service either. Boats are bent. When the budget agreement allocates 10 million. kr, they're going to be 10 million. kr produced as a big winner and a big addition. But when you take 10 million. And then I'm going to give back 10 million kroner. kr, it can – with reverence – not appear to me as a great addition. One of the things that is going to cover the expenditure in the state budget this year is the sale of salmon concessions. That's something completely new: getting paid for concessions in the fishing industry. It's a whole new principle. When the Breeding Act was created, it was clarified that the concession document should have no value. We have experienced that capitalists have bought into the industry, but they have bought the facilities, they have bought the fish, and it is not the document itself that has been sold. So the state is putting up a whole new policy without a law, in my opinion. We're in a phase where the defense is in a major conversion process. In reality, the defence in North Norway is to be closed. It's to be laid down on Retan, it's to be moved to Ottawa, we're going to lay down Andyya Air Station and the Coast Guard Base are to be moved from Blackland to Ramsund. What kind of profit lies in this, I can't understand. At least there will be less production time for coastguard vessels, because they will be located outside the 4-mile limit. It's only when they start to work. The sailing time to the new base will go well beyond the production time. Then it's planned to take 100 million. kr from the Air Force. It's actually putting the planes on the ground, and the 100 million. shall be used to build a new regional shooting ground here in the East. And then we're going to go into an EU army, where Norwegian youths are going to risk their lives for the European Union, a union that we're not even in. Today, you can safely ask the question of young people today who are willing to sacrifice their lives for Norway – and then we're going to send them out to war. That's a big question mark we have to put there. It's cut into other things, too. It's being cut in the rehabilitation centers. I have to confess that I am standing here on the pulpit today, just because I have been allowed to go to the rehabilitation centre after both a heart operation and before that again also an attack. Of course, many people would have been happy that I hadn't been in this room here today, but I'm now here, and it may well be that I'm going to bother representatives here the next period as well. So for the VAT reform. On 1 January, VAT will increase to 24 p.m. 1 July to be halved. Then the bill is already paid. But one of the things that I think is very unfair is that there have been exemptions for amusement parks and alpine facilities, because when we talk about amusement parks for the district population, i.e. tifoli, they have to be fully taxed. ==References== Ten million. kr is the turnover of the three Tyrolines in Norway. And that's what the kids and young people around in the districts can enjoy, while thousands of joys and all stationary amusement parks don't have to pay VAT. It's impossible for me to understand. And I ask you a question about how to control half of the VAT. What kind of charging policy is to be established? We have a heating oil tax police who pull around and check if there is more than 1,400 litres of fuel on a farm tank. If it is filled with more than 1 400 litres, the entire tank must be charged a car diesel charge. I imagine the army of the police who are pulling around and controlling VAT – an impossible control. Then we will have to have new tax reform and we will have to remove the investment levy from 2002. Tax reforms always go out on the private man. It is never possible to reach those whom it is said to be reached, to take from the rich and give to the poor. No, it's the private man who's going to be skinned. That's exactly what's going on. I have to compare it with that one peels a harness and pulls off all the skin. Then you're going to put on that harness that skin again, but you've taken away half of it. That is exactly what the Norwegian people are exposed to in every tax reform. And I do not imagine that the tax reform to be implemented will be of any benefit to the Norwegian people. I also imagine the VAT reform that we have not yet seen the end of. I address the proposals that I have made with others, and what I have made alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e673	Steinar Bastesen has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e676	We have witnessed that the Workers' Party has presented its state budget with the largest tax increases of the time, including among others. the introduction of a business cycle charge, a charge which was, in fact, a significant increase in the employer’s fee. The background for this increase was that there was pressure in the economy. I believe that the Workers' Party had enjoyed a trip out of the capital and stuck its finger in the ground. Where I come from – a place that the Workers' Party and the Center Party call District Norway – there is not much pressure in the economy. The construction sector is running idle, and there is actual unemployment. That's the unemployment that the Workers' Party wants to increase. We don't want that in the Progress Party, we want to go the other way, we want to get that staff to work. And when we know that there's a coincidence between one of our greatest challenges, that of facilitating business and the population in the form of a well-developed road network, and that the construction sector is calling for jobs because people are going on leave, is not the answer to charge more taxes, then the answer is to go the other way, namely, to facilitate the conditions so that they get into work. The same applies to the introduction of a new electricity charge for industry. It is a process industry rage, a process industry that operates with the cleanest environmental technology in the world, and it clearly aims to send the Government to some country where they can pollute more, with subsequent job losses in Norway. And this is done by those who call themselves the workers' party. Who are they trying to trick? As I started to say, the Labour Party government has put forward a proposal for a government budget that would have led to job fury in Norway. When one reads the papers, a few impressions can be that the center parts came as a saving angel. However, with regard to tax policy, the comparison has led to tax increases ranging from disastrously high to dramatic. For what is the result of the establishment of a workers' party centre block? Indeed, the increase in VAT from 23 to 24 p.m., a dramatic increase in the electricity charge for ordinary Norwegian citizens, the introduction of a short-term tax and the extension of access to risk capital by introducing double taxation on dividends. When I was elected representative of the Stortinget, I thought that my first task was to facilitate the situation so that the Norwegian people would get better: to ensure that the patients in the hospital were treated quickly, that the students in the school got modern computer equipment, that the companies got better framework conditions, that the individual could buy a slightly better car, that one could travel a little cheaper by plane, that one should not have to travel abroad to buy beer, wine or a bottle of brandac, yes, simply and easily to make sure that the normal man in the street got it a little better. I've been here for about three years, and at this time it's clearly been a goal for the workers' party-centre block to make things worse for most people, because none of what I've mentioned here has improved. I've been thinking a lot about why it's so that when we have plenty of money and resources to solve our problems, it looks like this workers' party-centre block uses more energy to explain away and cheat away from the problems, than they use to solve them. According to the General Organisation of Commerce and Services, Swedish trade has increased by 45 p.m. According to VG here a day, the entire management of the Workers' Party has promised the Norwegian people to lower the fee on spirits. Their promise of reduction has become an increase in the levy, to the great delight of smugglers and home-burners. In its alternative proposal for a State budget, the Progress Party has proposed a reduction down to the Swedish level of beer, wine and spirits in addition to a halving of the food tax from 1 January. We have also proposed a reduction in the tobacco tax by 17 pst. These are measures that would have helped against smuggling and home burning, and against the commercial leakage to Sweden and Denmark. It is too bad for Norway, a rich country, to have one of the world’s highest car taxes and one of the world’s highest diesel and petrol taxes. This has led to record low sales of new cars, record high imports of second-hand cars from abroad, closure of businesses in both central and district Norway. In the future of the Nordic countries last week, there was a statistics on the deportation from the Nordic states. That was an adorable reading. Now centres like Bodø and Tromsø are unable to stop the deportation from the part of the country: people are moving like never before. What does the workers' party centre block that has run this country for decades, and that is responsible for the movement flow? Well, they're scratching their heads and wondering what's going on, and they've obviously done that for a long time, because I've registered some of them getting little hair. But has itch led to some good solutions? No, they put on more of the same medicine. And when they use the same medicine that they've been doing for 20 years, and this medicine leads to an increased dislocation, even for the workers' party-centre block, it should have called some bells. Maybe it's time to use another type of medicine. Why not do as the Progress Party suggests, which is to lower the fuel tax by NOK 3.47 per person. liters and lower the diesel charge by $2.86 per litre? This is something like monks, and that will facilitate the economic situation of those living in scattered rural areas where there is no collective provision. It should be reasonable, even for members of the Workers' Party Centre Block, that when a fee is so high that people move, it is better to lower the fee than to grant people so that they can afford to pay the same fee. When you look at the structure of these anti-business parties, I'm very surprised about the Left that has led all kinds of businesses then to those degrees behind the light, getting a single voice from these at the election. For what has the Workers' Party Centre block given business? Yes, 11 pst. dividend tax, 10 pst. short-term taxes on industrial buildings, extra billions in taxes as a result of new and lower depreciation rules and new rules for vans, leading to the loss of many jobs and the closure of enterprises. I can imagine that business is left a big thank you. So I can imagine that that part of the Workers' Party and the Centre Block called the Centre Parties will ask, what would the option be? Well, the option would have been a collaboration where the Progress Party was involved. That would have led to 0 pst for business. dividend tax, 0 pst. short-term taxes, no deterioration in the depreciation rules, maintenance of the van, lower taxes on wealth, much lower taxes on petrol and diesel, no increase in VAT and no half of VAT as from 1 January 2001. With a budgetary settlement where the Progress Party was a participant, people and businesses should have been significantly easier, while the result today is that people and businesses should have an even heavier burden. As I said earlier, the car industry is in crisis, with record low sales of new cars and increased imports of used cars. The fact that used cars are imported is only good, because it indicates that competition works and that the buyers are mobile. But the fact that the sale of new cars is steadily falling is ominous, simple and straightforward because it is in new cars the best technology is to find. This therefore leads to our becoming an environmental sink. The fees in Norway lead to those who are going to buy a small, cheap car buying it in Norway, while those who want and need a slightly larger and slightly better car go abroad and buy a used car. It has its explanation that these cars are so expensive to buy new ones in Norway that they are not sold, and of course they are not used cars. It must be a dilemma for even the most tax-paying politicians in this room that families with children are forced either to go abroad to buy a used car or to buy a combined car where there is almost no room for the children in the backseat, because the majority of policymakers have decided that the oil nation of Norway should have one of the world’s highest car charges. Let me just give you one example of how insanely high and unfair the charging system is: if anyone in this room were to think about having children – that happens of course – and would also think about buying a car where there would be room for these children and man or wife – for example. a Chrysler Voyager, a very common family car that goes with many of them as combined cars – to get the car registered as a passenger car so that the children and the wife in the back seat will have room for their feet, they only have to pay 176 000 kroner in charge of the engine! In addition, it is necessary to pay a weight tax, so that the total charge will be approximately approx. 300,000 kroner for this perfectly normal family car, because in the oil nation of Norway we can't afford to make sure people can choose a safe and environmentally friendly car. I thought in all simplicity that one of my foremost tasks as a magnificent would be to distribute the wealth that lies in the North Sea, and the one placed in the bank account abroad, in a sensible way so that today's population and future generations would be able to take part in this wealth. So naive it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e719	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e722	The party of progress gives tax relief in buckets and buckets. The effect of this is among other things: the dismantling of a number of joint actions. I have two questions in this context, which goes a little bit on who's wondering who in this country, where we've never had it better materially than now. I have a background as a trustee in the competitive value-creating private enterprise. The Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to cut the daily allowance by DKK 1 billion compared to the Government's proposal. Who in this rich country is to be deprived of their daily allowance? The Progress Party also believes in its alternative budget that it is not necessarily a State task to own aerodromes. Today, the Aviation Agency owns the vast majority of airports, and the profit from the profitable is used to cover the deficit of those who are unprofitable. Therefore, the state does not spend much money at airports. We know that only Gardermoen, Flesland, Værnes and Sola are profitable. The rest is actually unprofitable. In the event of the dissolution of the state's ownership, to which the Progress Party then submits, there are three possibilities, and now the Nordic representative Kenneth Svendsen will be escorted. The three options are: 1st@item: inlistbox These aerodromes shall be closed.2. These aerodromes are subject to significantly higher charges and thus increased tariffs.3. The State must purchase the services from these airports and will therefore have to substantially increase its expenditure. A small challenge, perhaps, to a representative who homelessly frees his potential optors with great tax relief, without referring to the consequences of the kind of behavior, especially in the north of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e743	It's interesting to hear the representative Dalheim come up here on the pulpit and go to the frontal attack on the Progress Party on Norwegian aviation. It is true that for many, many years now, the Workers' Party has been pursuing an aviation policy with such high rates of excise duty that unfortunately we are soon free from competition in Norway, because Braathens is breaking their backs. Then I think it is brave to attack the Progress Party for this. Time and again, we have proposed lowering and removing charges on aviation. It would have made it far more reasonable to use planes, and that's one of the things that we're busy with. Then the representative Dalheim makes a point that we've cut down on this with a daily allowance. That's a logical consequence of us wanting people to work. That's why we're cutting these. We want people in work, as opposed to the Workers' Party, who have set out a plan to free them from private-sector labour by shutting down businesses. Competition is a foreign word in this regard. With regard to the attack on us for not finding cover, the coverage in our budget is in a much more efficient public sector. Besides, we want to spend more of our oil money, because we want to distribute this money to those who are alive today. Then we want competition in agriculture. Of course, we want to free up resources by introducing competition in agriculture. We also want competition in the public sector, where there is almost no competition today. There are opportunities to release resources that can be deployed in health care, school and where resources are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e756	The representative Kenneth Svendsen rose to the great heights as a representative of the people of District Norway. Let me quote from the alternative budget of the Progress Party: ‘The alternative of the party is short on significant reductions in taxes and levies, strengthening core areas and reducing public expenditure in non-priority areas.’ So, as has been said several times here, it's suggested that there be a huge reduction in charges, and some people have to pay them. The question is, Who is it that has to pay? It is not unexpected that it will be cut in the cultural sector, with approx. half of the budget, cut at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by approx. half of the budget, and that it goes beyond unhelp. But what surprises me more, and which I want to ask the district representative Kenneth Svendsen, is whether he is doing well for the following cut: The industry is cut by 28.7 pst. The food aid shall be reduced. It is written that there are unfortunate priorities in industrial development in some places in the country, in fact, in the districts. Nor does the Progress Party support SND ‘as an instrument for district development’. Agriculture gets a cut of 33.6 pst. With such a cut, they will recover the lost freedom of the Norwegian farmer, while the district farmer will receive a grant to lay down. The future major area of activity for Norway is coastal fisheries. It was cut at 17.1 pst. Here, deregulation and liberalisation must lead to less need for support, but District Norway has never benefited from deregulation and liberalisation. Then it has to be cut in the North Norway grant, and it has to be cut in the regional grant, while the big cities have to get 500 million. kr more. This must be the reverse Robin Hood policy. The party of progress takes from those who have little, and gives to those who have plenty. In the Christian People's Party we record that the districts belong to the non-priorities of the Advance Party. Does the representative Kenneth Svendsen agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e776	So it's wrong to take! I've been on the SND government in Northern Ireland for many, many years, and I've seen the waste there. That's why I decided to go here and stop it. The biggest difference between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in agricultural policy – and that is important – is that the Advance Party has faith in the professional peasant, while the Christian People's Party does not believe in the farmer as an independent person. We think that if we remove some of these laws and regulations that weigh professional farmers, take them away from their shoulders, they can live by what they produce. But then it is not useful with the law in hand to decide where the farmer should go, what he should sell, who he should sell to, and how much he should get for it. You have to believe that the farmers can do this by themselves. But I agree that we must have a change of agricultural policy. We have to bet on professional farmers and don't pour out large grants to hobby farmers, where both in a family have a full job next door. And it should be clear to the representative Sahl, who comes from West Wagøy, where there are large rural areas that are particularly suitable for size. There you could have really lived well of what the farmer produced, with great efficiency. I will admit that the representative Sahl is right in a very important matter for the Progress Party, which he made a good point of: the Progress Party is very much in favour of a reduction in taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e792	In fact, it is not so easy to get wise on the economic policy of the Progress Party, I must honestly admit that. The lot is largely for all tax reliefs that may exist, but also for a formidable increase in the use of public money, where it may be popular. But what amazes me most in the economic policy of the Progress Party is the party's positive attitude to reduced food VAT without being linked to binding decisions in this House on the reduction of our agricultural transfers. Kenneth Svendsen is probably aware that Norway is today opposed to the ceiling at all WTO-related maximum levels and to import protection. Does the representative Svendsen not see that lower food prices can provide further room for increased food prices and allow Norwegian agriculture to escape the unpleasant consequences that the WTO and the abolition of import protection might bring? A trade-off in the reduction of food tax therefore allows for the continuation of a high subsidy amount to Norwegian agriculture — again a system that is not affected by the WTO. In fact, the Party of Progress may be harmed to support a reduction in food VAT without a corresponding reduction in agricultural transfers and ensure that in Norway there remains an eternal, enormous support for Norwegian agriculture. But it could be that the representative Svendsen thought about the distribution policy linked to the food tax. Then it is likely that households with the highest income spend the most money on food, and thus also those households with the highest income, who get the most reduction in kroner and ears. It's just a distribution policy, you ask me. Would it not be far better to provide this support directly to families with children in the form of increased cash support, increased child welfare or whatever it may be, linked directly to those persons, those families, who have financial problems, instead of distributing it to everyone? Of course it would! My question to Kenneth Svendsen is therefore: Does the representative see that reduced food tax can have the consequences that I say? And is not the poor distribution policy of food moms reduced – very much so?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e805	When the Right talks that the Advance Party will increase the use of public money – if the representative then believes the oil money that we pump up from the North Sea and that we put on a book – and that in addition to what we of course put on a book, we want to give some of this money back to ordinary Norwegians, those who own this money, he is quite right. When the representative Nilsen gives the impression that the Progress Party only wants to put down the food tax, and that it has the effect that you want to keep the subsidy scheme that is today, it is totally wrong. If the representative Nilsen had taken the time to read the alternative budget presented by the Progress Party, he would have recorded that we are doing both. We cut subsidies for agriculture, and thus we demand more efficiency, while – and we have seen – we have a problem with the trade leakage to Sweden. What we want to do is give the two countries equal opportunities for competition. This is the food tax an important part of. And we're lowering the fees quite dramatically. It's pretty clear that that's the opposite of what Nilsen says, which is correct. Of course, lowering the food tax will make the most sense to those who earn the least. And that's also one of the reasons why we're doing this. Then the representative Nilsen also withdraws the cash support as a targeted support. We agree, therefore we have proposed to extend it by one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e815	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e818	In the main feature of the budget debate last year, I stated that we have reason to be content with the position in our country. We have it – at least financially – very well. There's no reason to say anything other than last year. I think that the economic governance of the country over the last three years, which has mainly been done on the basis of the Bondevik government's budget proposals, has our good and for the benefit of the people. The government's budget proposal for Stoltenberg meant a change of course in economic policy. The main impression that one put in after the presentation of the budget was a conscious weakening of jobs in the competitive industries at the cost of increasing jobs in the public sector. This was a turn of economic policy that we from the Christian People's Party could not be in. That is why I am pleased that in the agreement that is currently under way, we have managed to turn this back to a more ‘normal’ situation, whether or not we can use that expression. The major changes made to the government of Stoltenberg are, of course, the removal of cyclical charges and the disappearance of investment charges from 2002. This together amounts to over 12 billion kroner in fees, which are blind to business. In particular, the general business cycle charge would threaten job losses in industry. Labour-intensive activities, such as drug use, would be affected. have a large proportion of low-paid women, and besides the new knowledge enterprises. The changes we have achieved in the provision of dividend taxes are well worth noting for the business community. The percentage is reduced to 11 pst, and a deduction is introduced at the bottom of NOK 10000. Travel in the districts has probably all noticed that there is no VAT on travel life, nor on public passenger transport. The Christian People's Party is busy that we're going to have a value-creating Norway. If we are to achieve this, research and development must have a good framework in the time to come. That is why it is very positive that we in the budget agreement get an increase of DKK 1⁄2 billion when it applies to the funds to enter the research fund. This will in the long term provide good returns in the form of increased value creation in business. I think it is an important step forward when we have been included in the budget agreement with the Labour Party that, in the context of the long-term programme and the revised national budget for 2001, they will come back with a discussion of a further follow-up to ensure greater research and development efforts in the business community, based on the recommendations set out in the Hervik Committee’s recommendation. I am also content to say that the promises to the Ministry of Education, Education and Research will generally increase its budget by over 430 million. that universities receive more than 200 million. kr of this and that private schools and high schools are also strengthened. That it's the centrum party that shows in practical policy that the public highballs are an important element of the challenge system, I'm assuming it's noticed. The same applies to fees granted to foreign students. There are several reasons why the scope of action in fiscal policy has been limited in recent years. Not least this is due to the growth of the population’s spending. That is why it is positive that in the budget agreement with the Labour Party we have had the effect of bringing them forward with concrete action in relation to what is stated in the Sandman Committee's recommendation. This will enable us to have a better functioning labour market, while reducing the underlying growth in the budget. It is important to strengthen the working line of the employment policy, including: by providing a labour market that works better than today. The most important point I would like to point out is that the labour market seat is better placed to provide jobs and that labour market measures are set up to help them to qualify for the unemployed. It must also be more possible to combine work and social security, work and retirement, to benefit from part-time work, and to improve the capacity of challenges for more people to come into work. Negotiating an agreement obviously requires both giving and taking, as is the case with this budget agreement. Such an area, where we have to give to get to a budget that is roughly neutral, in order to avoid an economic policy with an expanding effect, is the charging side. We have increased revenue both in terms of revenue side of the budget and in order to get a slightly different profile of the fees. It is a fee that I would like to mention in particular. Amounts are due to introduce a business cycle charge of 10 pst. on investments in non-residential buildings which are subject to the tax laws of Sections 14 to 41, first paragraph, points (g) and (h). To this I will clarify the following: First of all, this is a business cycle fee because of the pressure in the construction industry. Therefore, the fee should be removed when the pressure is lowered. The second thing I would like to clarify is that the exemption from the tax obligation applies to investments which are subject to binding contracts before 18 November 2000, when known. I use this as a basis to understand that projects started before this date, although not all contracts are signed, are exempt from the cyclical charge for industrial buildings. I want the Minister of Finance to pay special attention to this. Thirdly, I also expect that construction that is listed for rentals for dwellings should not be covered by this fee. I would like to refer to the business cycle fee in the representative of Enoxsen's main post earlier today. The Christian People's Party has been busy twisting the charges related to car and car maintenance, from owning for the use of a car. Therefore, we would have liked to see that the petrol tax had not been reduced as much as the Government proposed, but that one would have also reduced the annual tax on the car. On the other hand, I would have liked to see the diesel tax reduced further, because the diesel tax is a tax that is largely linked to commercial transport. Truck industries meet, among other things, strong competition from abroad, where diesel taxes and diesel prices are lower. With the agreement we have now reached on the 2001 budget, it will be decided that the extraordinary sulphur charge is 26 øre per. litres are withdrawn from 1 July 2001. So I hope you can get an additional reduction in the price of diesel from that point of time. I also see it as very positive that there are now multiples to have zero rates of VAT for electric cars, which will have a lot to say for more environmentally friendly means of transport. I would also like to say that it is positive that in the agreement with the Labour Party we have been exempted from the industry when it owes the increase in the electricity charge, at the same time as one of the proper pricing of energy use increases the electricity charge in general. This is the right way to go, according to the Christian People's Party's view, when it charges on energy. There are many small items in the budget that are likely to excite mention. I will briefly mention two that have a lot to say for Coast Norway. The one is that we've got increased the licenses to an electronic chart for the Norwegian coast by 20 million. kr, which I regard as very important in relation to the security along our coast. It's the same thing that we've also been given a 10 million increase in the proceeds to the Rescue Company. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e864	The representative, Lars Gunnar Lie, had a thorough review of the budget agreement, with which he has decided to be reasonably satisfied – quite satisfied with the achievements of the centre party in the negotiations. There are many ways to draw an interesting picture in this debate. The centre party is very pleased with the changes that have taken place in the budget proposal, and in the Labour Party we are very pleased that we have managed to maintain the profile of the government budget and get the necessary redistribution between people and between the private and public sectors. In other words, there are two parties who seem to be well-accompanied with a budget agreement. It hasn't been like this in Stortinget. It was said earlier here today that there were some who had to stick to their noses when they agreed to vote for a budget agreement. That's why I think it's right and important that we've reached a budgetary agreement where the centre and the Labour Party are hoping for increased investment in important welfare areas, such as health, care for the elderly, school and kindergarten. We have been given a fairer distribution both nationally and internationally, security for work and the personal economy with the responsible use of oil revenues so as not to increase the pressure on jobs and on interest rates. For example, the representative, Lie, has experience in previous budgetary agreements, including: with the Right and the Advance Party. When one now sees the draft budget of the Right and the Progress Party, with large tax credits to be paid by cuts in the sickness scheme, cuts in aid, cuts in labour market measures, cuts in the case of SND and the agricultural agreement, etc., my question becomes to the representative Lie: does he now feel more comfortable with a budgetary agreement with the Labour Party, and does not the representative Lie see that the political focus in the future is also in a cooperation between the Centre Party and the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e873	If a get is an appointment, both parties must be satisfied with it - otherwise there will be no appointment. So simple is the answer to the fact that we are content to say that we have been passed on so much that we can say that we are satisfied with the agreement. But to go beyond the fact that we are content with the agreement, I will strongly warn against it. There are very many areas where the distance between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party is large. It is probably enough to mention a little Keyword as cash support, so I believe that the representative from the Workers' Party will register that, among other things. in family policy, the distance is great. But when that is said, it is also right that I am happy that we have had so much impact – that we have managed to drive back so many of them, in our view, negative proposals in relation to business as we have done in this agreement. When it comes to budgetary agreements, it is easy to comment in the following way: neither with the other side of the policy would we have reached an agreement unless we were satisfied on both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e882	It's important to hear what people say. Sometimes it might be just as important to record what they're not talking about. What I am going to address is something that has surprised me a little bit in connection with this budget agreement. I would like to ask the representative Lie if he is concerned about this with border trade. It is claimed from the General Organisation of Commerce and Service Industries that this year we are going to trade in Sweden for 10 billion kroner – an increase of 45 p.m. from last year. I understand that this with halving food moms is part of what you're going to use to try to curb the border trade. Now SIFO says that the food prices in Sweden are 40-50 pst. lower than in Norway, so it is obvious that this is not enough. So we have to move on; we have to take other frontier goods, for example. tobacco and alcohol. The government proposed that the alcohol tax — or at least the alcohol tax — be reduced by 17,5 p.m., and it is now gone. That's part of what's going on in the border trade. However, in the case of alcohol levies, we also have another problem, and that is that only half of the alcohol traded in Norway is traded through the Wine Monopoly. So it's going to be 50 pst. which goes through other channels, mainly like smuggling and home burning. We have a rather large professional crime in terms of alcohol smuggling, which also finances other crime, and some claim that the alcohol traffickers are quite consistently voting for the Christian People's Party! Doesn't the Christian People's Party see that we have a huge problem if they want to use the Wine Monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument, when they're losing all control of alcohol sales in Norway? Wouldn't it have been reasonable to follow the Government's proposals, which actually have broad support in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e891	The Christian People's Party is also aware of the situation when it's related to border trade, so we're also involved in halving the food tax, and as the representative Monsen was involved, it's part of that strategy. When it comes to tobacco and alcohol, it is clear that smuggling is also a problem. For this reason, the Bondevik government is putting in place measures to increase control, but also measures to increase prevention in relation to drug use. We have recently recorded the result of the increased control, among others. with what the Customs Authority carried out in the last week. At the same time, it must be confirmed that there are limits to the extent to which the difference in charges may be at the border before it becomes too negative. I mean, we haven't reached the level of the decision that will now be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e898	After such a budgetary settlement, you're going to characterize what you've been up to, and Rudihagen referred to the former budget partners who had said they had to stick to their noses. When this time it seems to be the case that you have not had to hold your nose, there may be two reasons for it: either it does not smell bad, or you have lost your sense of smell. I'm afraid that's the last thing. The Christian People's Party could not participate in the Labour Party's draft budget, said Lars Gunnar Lie. The agreement resulted in the budget that will now be adopted being – as he said – more ‘normal’. Well, I'm going to characterize this agreement as less evil than the worst case, because after the draft budget adjusted for these negotiations, that means you get a tax and tax increase of NOK 12.8 billion. I might think that Lars Gunnar Lie took a look at the elements that make up this in general, the increased taxes and charges, which have a full-year effect of NOK 12.8 billion. In his post, Lie was involved in this with a short-term tax on barley, and said that binding agreements would be included before 18 November – that was the point of intersection. But what about the situation that some have encountered when they have concluded binding leases before 18 November on buildings to be built, but where the contractor contracts were not necessarily concluded before 18 November? There is, of course, a lessor with legal and financial responsibility. Will the individual lessor take that burden, or how do the parties intend to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e907	I'm older, but I still have the sense of smell. It was not the representative Lie who said this whether it smells good or not. I'm recording that the representative Gabrielsen has a positive mention of the budgetary agreement after all. I would like to ask Gabrielsen to read the statement from the Financial Committee to find out the details of the increase in fees and taxes. After all, he had already done that, so it's not necessary for me to repeat it from the Storting's pulpit, as he knew exactly how much it was all about. When it comes to the short-term tax proposal, I agree that there are issues that we need to address, and in my post I underlined three, four points on which I asked the Minister of Finance to be particularly careful. I expect that to be done by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e916	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e919	The draft budget of the Labour Party Government is based on three clear priorities: The government will strengthen the common good and build the welfare community further. As a result, we proposed increasing appropriations for health care, so that more patients can be treated next year than ever before. We proposed increasing appropriations for care for the elderly, increasing school appropriations and increasing appropriations for child care. The government will have a fairer distribution. Therefore, we proposed tax on share dividends. At the same time, we proposed to reduce the tax on labour income by NOK 1 billion. We protected the rights of workers in the interests of the people. The government will ensure security for work and personal finances. We want to avoid new interest rate increases. That is why we proposed a budget that does not increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy. I am pleased that, through the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, it has been possible to secure the majority of a government budget that takes care of all these main priorities. There will be increased bets on the common good. In some areas, efforts are also further increased beyond the Government’s proposals. It's going to be a fairer distribution. Taxes on dividends on shares are introduced. There will be increased security for the personal economy. The budget currently agreed seems to be neutral in the Norwegian economy, in line with the government's original proposal. The budgetary agreement shows the willingness to find solutions and the willingness to take responsibility. I have noticed that the market has reacted very positively to the budget agreement. Vice-Chancellor Inge Furre, in Pareto, said to the Newspaper on 20 November: ‘If interest increases next year, it is not the result of the State budget. You can say that this time, politicians have done their job in terms of interest rate developments." Head of Analysis Marius Lømo in Christiania Markets says: ‘ – Politicians surprised the market by coming into port with a neutral budget.’ And on the other hand, ‘We have been thinking for a while that there is a need for more interest rate increases, but we are much less confident about this now, especially in the light of the budgetary agreement.’ And this is one of the most important things for young families, for municipalities and for business. In the draft budget, the Government made it clear that if we are to strengthen the common good, as proposed by the Government, without increasing the pressure on interest rates, the pressure in the private sector must be reduced. That is why we proposed a business cycle tax. We've made it clear from the outset that this is an instrument, not an independent goal. We've been open to other solutions. Under the budgetary agreement, a choice has been made to reduce the pressure in the private sector by imposing a short-term operating tax of 10 p.m. in industry, by increasing the electricity charge in addition to the Government's proposal and by making a continuous reduction in the depreciation rates for industry. I have noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party criticise that this means an increase in the level of taxation. Yes, the Workers' Party believes it is necessary to strengthen the health system, the care of the elderly and the provision of training. At the same time, we say no to a policy that must lead to an increase in interest rates. The choice is then between adjusting taxes or reducing the size of the various welfare schemes. So what is the choice of the Advance Party and the Right? Well, the Progression Party and the Right sends the bill to those who are affected by disease. The Progress Party proposes that a person who has been diagnosed for one year, for example: due to cancer, only get 80 pst. sickness pay. For an average female industrial worker, this means a pre-tax loss of approximately NOK 44 000. After the right-hand order, the same patient will get about $22,000. lower sickness pay before tax. Is it reasonable to cut the sick pay of an industrial worker by NOK 44 000? The party of progress and the right sends the bill to people in the districts. The advance party cuts the regional aid by about DKK 1 billion and the agricultural transfers by DKK 4.5 billion. Right cutters a little bit smaller, but cutters together with about NOK 2.7 billion for the same purpose. The Progress Party and the Right are sending the bill to the poorest in the world through cuts in aid of 5.6 billion dollars and 2.5 billion dollars respectively. The Labour Party and the Centre cover the sick pay, secure efforts in the districts and increase assistance. The government offered to strengthen the local government's economy with a total of NOK 5 billion compared to the calculation basis that was presented last spring. It's now getting a majority. In addition, the budget agreement agrees to compensate municipalities for increased pension provisions as a result of changes in the survivor's pension. It is a form of ‘compulsory saving’. Thus, the activity of the local government sector can be maintained even if pension provisions need to be increased. Together with the budget, the Government presented proposals for a comprehensive renewal of the VAT system. The budgetary agreement provides for the majority of such a change. We now have a more robust and forward-looking system, adapted to a society where service provision plays an increasingly important role. The budget agreement implies the introduction of half of the VAT on food from 1 July next year. The Ministry has provisionally estimated the loss of revenue of such a measure at NOK 6,5 billion on an annual basis. On the basis of the Storting decision, the Ministry will work to find an appropriate delimitation on the half-nutrient foods. Since the detailed definition of which foods are to have half VAT is not finally clarified, I make the Stortinget aware that the proceeds are uncertain. It is clear from the budgetary agreement that provision will be made for the exit of the investment levy from 1 January 2002. In the context of the 1992 tax reform, the Government of the Workers' Party proposed that the investment levy be abolished. At that time, Stortinget chose not to give priority to the proposal. Under the budgetary agreement, the Government receives a majority for a significant reduction in the taxes on petrol and diesel. But we do not get a majority in favour of the proposal for a significant reduction in alcohol levies. The measures contained in the budget agreement represent overall unchanged or marginally lower average consumer price growth in 2001 compared to the estimate in the national budget of 2 3⁄4 pst. Overall, price growth in the first few months of 2001 is estimated to be slightly higher than the national budget. In return, the price increase is assumed to be slightly lower later in the year than assumed. The Government will follow up the work of introducing a new system of taxation on food and capital, in line with the principles outlined in the Government's draft budget and in the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. The Government intends to propose a reform of the tax on nutrition in the State budget for 2002. This year's financial position shows clear distinctions in economic policy between the centre parties and the Labour Party on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. In particular, the distance to the Advance Party is large. The working party and centre will strengthen the common good. The Progress Party is in practice committed to weakening the welfare society. The working party and centre will have a fairer distribution. The Progress Party will increase the differences in society. The Working Party and Centre enter to avoid new interest increases. The policy of the Progress Party will increase interest and burden on young families. I have noticed that the Progress Party has sought advice from Professor Øystein Noreng. His answer is clear. He says, ‘It’s not in touch, and I think the calculation is questionable.’ And on the other hand, ‘Nevertheless, this will lead to an increase in prices, migration and a sharp increase in immigration.’ Professor Arne Jon Isachsen says the same thing: ‘We do not have enough labour and the consequence will be higher inflation.’ And let me add: and increase interest. The global and serious analysis agency Dun & Bradstreet warns investors against economic root and political uncertainty if the Progress Party gains greater influence. According to the Newspaper of Day on 7 November, Dun & Bradstreet states that the policy of the Progress Party is «violent short-term thinking». And it is said that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to 'unstable interest and greater unemployment'. For this reason too, I am pleased that it has been possible to reach a budgetary agreement that has put the Progress Party on the sideline. They should still be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1012	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1015	If the Minister of Finance is to refer to large and global analysts, he should at least be able to express the name of them correctly. It is not that what they have done here is a continuous analysis of the economic structure of the Progress Party. On the contrary, she herself stated that she has based her so-called analysis on the opinions she has read in Norwegian newspapers. We have therefore addressed a request to Dun & Bradstreet and asked them to explain the type of statements, because it is mildly a very unprofessional way of acting. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance for a matter, because in the budget presented by the Minister of Finance to the Stortinget on 4 October, the Government writes relatively much about a proposal that some parties in the Stortinget wanted to introduce, namely a differentiated electricity charge for business. There the government writes very clearly that such a restriction must then be based on a concrete assessment of each enterprise. Effective control of the scheme will require the installation of specific courses or meters for the different premises or purposes. In the view of the Ministry, the practice of such a distinction between free and taxable electricity consumption will complicate the charging system significantly. Such differentiation will be administratively costly and demanding and hardly proportionate to the gains. That's what the government wrote. My question to the Minister of Finance is: What does the Government think now? For it is now the case that the Workers' Party has entered into a budgetary settlement with the centre, where such a differentiated electricity charge has just been introduced. Has the government changed its view of how perverse this really is? Or do you still think that it's not a lucky solution, but you've always chosen to agree to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1024	I must first apologize for the lack of a street statement. But since we've made it clear, it might be more interesting to go back to the content of the statement. What is quite interesting is that the economic policies of the Progress Party raise so much awareness not only in the Norwegian analytical environments and among Norwegian economic disciplines, but also internationally, and that there is reason to warn international investors against the economic turmoil that could follow to the extent that the Progress Party would have increased influence in Norwegian policy, with the consequences it will bring. But there is no need to go beyond the borders of the country to produce that kind of analysis. The Progress Party itself has asked Professor Øystein Nordeng about some of the activities of their economic policies, and the conclusion is clear to the sun: you get an economic structure that will result in increased economic instability, and you get an increasing pressure in the economy as a result of the lack of labour to meet such an expansionary approach as the Progress Party presents. And of course, it has as its consequence that there is an increased cost pressure, and with that also an accompanying pressure on interest rates. The result of the economic policy of the Progress Party is not just sending the bill to the poorest in the world, as I referred to, it is not just sending the bill at NOK 44 000 per person. years to one with an average industrial worker income which unfortunately gets sick for an entire year, but it is also such that a quite obvious consequence is an increased interest rate for young families in the start-up phase, which will have to pay the bill for the economic experiments that the representative Jensen and others would want to undertake. So to the question of a differentiated electricity charge. Yes, the Labour Party has concluded through the budget agreement that they believe it would be right to impose an electricity charge on administrative buildings. I can assure the representative that we will be able to find a system to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1035	It has been nice to be involved with a Minister of Finance who has been so enthusiastic about a budgetary settlement as the current Minister of Finance is. I also read in the Haugesunds Avis that he has been in the representation meeting at LO in Oslo last Monday and praised the budgetary agreement. I would also like to refer to Mr Ranveig Frøiland, head of state in the Hordaland Labour Party, who says to Mr Stavanger Aften-blad that the conciliation with the centre has only made the budget even better. In my speech today, I referred to Ellen Horn, who said that while we were negotiating with Schjøtt-Pedersen's people, she hoped that the centre party would be able to make an impact on its cultural efforts in the budget. The Minister of Finance himself has said today that the Labour Party has long wished to remove the investment levy. I ask them why they haven't suggested it since 1992. The Labour Party has been in power for some of these years at least. But now we've helped them get that into place as well. In addition, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen quotes the financiers who are pleased with the budgetary agreement and who say that interest is not going to go up after this agreement - especially in the light of the budgetary agreement. All of this is a nice and positive record that I appreciate, and I am also happy that Schjøtt-Pedersen appreciates. I myself got a question in the round after my post if I could confirm that we had only moved to NOK 1.5 billion on the cost side of the budget agreement. I could confirm that, and for me, it would be quite important to get Schjøtt-Pedersen to confirm that we have actually moved over 20 billion kroner – yes, almost 22 billion kroner in the entire budget agreement. There's a big move. I asked the chairman of the financial committee if the budget was improved after the budgetary conciliation. And to somehow draw the Minister of Finance to the extreme in relation to these quotations, I actually feel that he agrees with me that the budget has become far better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1046	It's nice if I seem enthusiastic about the budget deal. In fact, I think it is good for the country that we have been given a clarification of the budget, and I think it is very important that in this clarification we have clearly respected the main priorities on which the Government laid down, with an increased commitment to the common good, more equitable distribution and with a security for work and the personal economy. Then there's a little theoretical discussion about how much you've moved within the expenditure and income side, because as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg was in the past today, it's not common to sum up the figures for two years to figure out how much impact is going to be. But let's agree that it's moved on some sizes of not insignificant dimension. Has it made the budget better? My assessment is that the budget presented by the Government was the best one for meeting the situation in the Norwegian economy. I believe that the cyclical tax was a better and more targeted measure than an increase in the electricity charge, depreciation rates and short-term construction charges that are now being implemented instead. But that's what the overall result was. The question of the short-term tax was not a principle for the Workers' Party; it was a tool to bring about the necessary dampening of the pressure in the private part of the economy in order to trigger an increased investment in the common good. That is what was essential, and that has been agreed upon. And then I'd like to be the first to say in this budget there's a lot of good working party policy, it's a very good center policy, and as the representative Hill-Marta Solberg was inside, one doesn't rule out the other. I believe this budgetary agreement shows that there are many joint assessments at the Centre and the Workers' Party on how to invest in fair distribution, how to bet on important common challenges. I think it is essential for the country as a whole that a settlement has been reached that creates stability in economic policy, and I am glad that the turmoil that the financial environment had in advance that one should not be able to stick to the neutral approach put forward by the Government turned out to be unfounded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1062	In a situation of acute labour shortages, the Minister of Finance said in the speech here today that only spending more money for good purposes can be done by cutting costs or bringing tax increases. I didn't think Schjøtt-Pedersen was completely blind to the fact that there was also an offer page in the economic policy, but I actually got it confirmed on a Friday night when I was sitting and watching TV. The councils were at Skavlan, and there he illustrated the relationship in the economy by showing what happens when you prefer coke in a glass that is already full – it runs over. Stabilisation policy, which the Minister of Finance has chosen, is about tilting the amount of coke up to the edge of the glass, but not above. Value creation policy, offer page policy, is about making the glass bigger, so that the Minister of Finance can focus more on what both the Minister of Finance and the rest of us like so much. There is a shortage of labour and not money that blows up the capacity of the Norwegian economy. This is well described in the national budget and also in the position, and the Minister of Finance said in his financial speech that labour shortages are today the most important restriction to expand supply in many areas. But why doesn't the Workers' Party take a single step to increase access? It actually makes me think of Ibsen's Peer Gynt: "Yes, think it; wish it, it would; but do it! No; I don't understand!' That's why I'm actually going to ask the Minister of Finance to come up with a list now, list to the Storting what concrete action the Government has taken in the national budget to increase access to labour. And then I hope he doesn't point out that he kept the employment measures in line with last year. What concrete measures has he taken to solve the main problem, the problem of not being able to spend more money for good purposes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1074	Yes, labour supply is a restriction on the development of the Norwegian economy, and there is also an important reason why the Norwegian economy can operate at the capacity limit for many years to come. Therefore, I agree with the representative Burnde that it is important that we have a focus on how we can ensure access to labour. On the part of the Government, we are concerned that we can ensure access through the so-called line of work in both employment and social policy, and we also have a government committee of our own that goes through various actions in this area. We will be allowed to come back to Stortinget with it, among other things. in an assessment of the long-term programme to be submitted to spring. There are different sets of instruments involved in this context. One of the instruments is, among other things: tax measures in relation to labour income, which we have actually incorporated into this budget. The budget agreement refers to labour immigration issues. In the budget papers, we have pointed to the concern expressed by the Government in relation to the fact that we have an increased withdrawal from the labour market, both in the case of increased sick leave and increased disability pensions. It has consequences in terms of reducing growth in the economy. It has consequences in relation to the financial statements it brings, and it also has an important consequence for those people who would like to have been in work but who in some cases are not. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that this type of action to increase the supply of labour takes time. It is not among the instruments that could be implemented in the 2001 budget. And I am absolutely sure the representative agrees with me that if you find that you have too little ice cream for the coke, it takes time to get out of the kitchen and get a new one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1081	During the treatment of Property Tax Act § 8 in the spring of the Inner Netherlands. O. No 85 for 1999-2000, the majority of the financial committee took two important reservations. One was to make reservations about the Ministry of Finance's income estimates for the municipal sector in relation to the effects of the new tax system on power plants. And the second was that there was a reservation about the distribution effects between municipalities and asked the Ministry of Finance to assess in particular the distribution effects between individual municipalities. The Ministry of Finance's estimate after the presentation of the budget has now shown that the local government sector will suffer a significant loss of income, in fact much greater than there was reason to fear. Municipalities are now in the middle of their budgetary procedure, and there is considerable uncertainty in municipalities about the kind of figures to be taken into account. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: Will the Minister of Finance make proposals for changes to the taxation rules so quickly that it is possible to deal with them before Christmas, so that the municipalities can take the necessary account of this in their budgeting? Secondly, will the Minister of Finance also ensure that the legislation is designed in such a way that the distribution effects become within an acceptable framework, provided that the municipalities together maintain their revenues?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1088	The answer to both questions is yes. I intend to make suggestions on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1093	I may not put too much emphasis on it, but I have to admit that I felt it was relatively rare to hear the Minister of Finance in a Labour Party government use as a witness of truth and as the Supreme Judge of the Government's policy two financial analysts and money movers at Oslo Stock Exchange as one of the first things he said in his intervention on the Storting in the financial debate. It is like these two who are proof that the Labour Party is pursuing a responsible, decent policy. I may not be going to put too much into it, but it was really very much to hear. What I thought I was going to challenge the Minister of Finance is the following: Our oil dependence is getting stronger and stronger. It doesn't necessarily get stronger in terms of how much money we spend in the economy, because that's often what's called oil addiction -- that's, now we've spent so much and so much, now we can't use another penny. But oil dependence is measured in many ways. The international financial markets, to which we also referred here instead, see that the Norwegian economy is so embedded in the oil economy that it means that a sudden fall in the oil price will have a significant impact on the Norwegian economy, both on interest rates and inflation. And that means that anyone who wants to think a little bit longer than just to tomorrow's budget is thinking, how are we going to be able to transform this society from the black oil economy into the green knowledge economy, which all of us know we have to live on at a later date? And the question is how the government has thought in this regard. There is nothing in this budget that points in such a direction. You're very concerned that we haven't spent so much of the oil money in the economy. And I'm sure that's a good thing. It can even confirm the analysts at the Stock Exchange. But the point is: what is the government's view that it should point forward? There is no commitment to education here. There is no investment in nutrient growth. It's not a commitment to what we're going to live on in the future. You'd think that for this government it was of the utmost importance that you already put the first chimers to what's going to give growth in the future. It would also make it much easier to be a Minister of Finance, because of course, oil dependence would also be much easier to deal with in a budgetary context if the oil price were to fall in the cellar.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1103	In fact, I think that this budget contains relatively many measures aimed at meeting future business challenges. One is a commitment to research. In the context of the revised national budget, the Government proposed to increase the research fund by DKK 1 billion. The draft budget proposes DKK 3 billion, the budget agreement proposes another DKK half a billion. Increased funding for research is provided. A new scheme to stimulate research in industry will be introduced from 1 July. The government has launched an action programme for broadband deployment. The government has announced in the budget various targeted measures for business development, including: an e-commerce programme, a programme for the commercialisation of research results in the marine sector, a programme for increased value creation in Norwegian agriculture. So there are different measures in the budget that, overall, add up to boost the development of nutrition. Then, in my opinion, it is just as full that the most important measure to develop Norwegian business is that we are in order in the Norwegian economy. The fact that we conduct an economic policy that ensures that interest rates are not increased and that there is no general price and cost spiral in society is also one of the most important factors in ensuring the competitiveness of our business. Therefore, this priority is also overarchingly important for economic development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1112	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1115	In relation to the Minister of Finance's reply to me, I have several measures that I can imagine could have been promoted now in the national budget in order to increase access to labour. But I see that you have chosen not to do so for political reasons. And then you also pay a high price for it. In other countries, discussion is now taking place on how to make yourself more attractive as a value-creating country. In Norway, we go the opposite way with the Workers' Party as a tabloid. During the autumn, and also here in the Chamber today, both the Minister of Finance and the head of the Finance Committee have tried febrilely to make it appear that Norway has a low tax level and that it is almost only right and reasonable that we increase taxes even more. These claims are in stark contrast to what the Government wrote in the revised national budget for 2000. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the «The ability to increase tax revenue is limited in the coming years.» After that, the Workers' Party has promoted tax increases of NOK 12 billion. In addition, it says: ‘The level of taxation in Norway is already highly compared with other countries. Taxes as a percentage of total GDP in Norway were 42.6 pst. in 1997. For mainland Norway, the proportion was 47.6 pst. The average for OECD countries was for comparison 32.4 pst. My first challenge to the government party is therefore: Is it not as good to stop using creative figures and productions and to admit that the tax increases of DKK 12 billion come to the top of an already high tax level, and that the dividend tax comes to the top of an already very high capital income and wealth tax? Can the Workers' Party not admit that the Government has chosen to satisfy its own and LO's need for distribution policy figs rather than the needs of business growth and value creation? My second challenge is this: Given that the possibilities for tax increases are limited, as the Minister of Finance himself thought in the revised national budget, and yet record tax increases for next year will be adopted, how do you imagine to cover the DKK 10 billion agreed to be financed in the budget for 2002, when the bill on the removal of investment taxes and reduced food tax comes on the table? Enterprises are no longer dependent on the country of origin. On the contrary, it is the nation state that has become dependent on enterprises. Therefore, the fight between nations and regions for investment, jobs and tax revenue is intensified. The Social Democratic Party in Germany has now proposed to reduce the marginal income tax to 42 pst. In Norway, the Centre, together with the Workers' Party, has arranged for the marginal tax on labour income to be 55.3 pst. In Ireland there is a capital tax, a tax on enterprises, of 12 p.m., while in Norway there is now a tax on general income of 28 p.m.. plus 11 pst. extra for those who invest their money in business. There has also been some talk about funding here. I noticed that the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, Hill-Marta Solberg, felt that the Right had covered the promised tax and tax cuts in a way that would have helped us to have the same problem as the Centre and the Workers' Party to the next year when they were going to cover the investment fee. I don't understand. It is okay that the representative Hill-Marta Solberg disagrees with our discovery proposals, but none of our containment proposals create problems for us in 2002. The representative of Solberg mentioned, inter alia: Our sick pay cuts, but our sick pay cuts and their proceeds are calculated by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and the figures we operate with are derived from those calculations. What's irresponsible is to sit passive, as the Workers' Party does, and make sure that the expenses of sick pay explode. A study from SINTEF-Unimed shows that sick leave costs society a total of $85 billion a year, and when the growth from that level shows no sign of stopping, it is obvious that something needs to be done. In fact, it is also a question of the question of access to labour. You cannot complain that there is a shortage of access to labour when you are not willing to go into what is really needed. You have to do something with a contractual pension. You have to do something about the disability rate, which is now approaching 300,000. You have to do something about the 120,000 year works that disappear through sick leave. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Centre of the Budget Agreement therefore believe that it is better to impose new costs on business through even higher taxes than to reduce the cost of business through lower taxes and health insurance. The government says that the reason for going to such huge tax increases is that since 1992, the bulk of the population has eroded the sharing model. This doesn't rhyme. In its budget, the Labour Party has proposed tightening up the sharing model. But in addition, there are tax increases of a total of 11.5 billion kroner. If you had first covered what you then call holes, related to the sharing model, why do you bring all the tax and tax increases in addition, when they claim that there were only answers to the sharing model you have today? The point is that the assumption of the tax compromise at point after point is now being raked. The fact that you should not have a higher marginal tax than 50 pst. is a mere saga. If you make more than one council, you have to pay 55.3 pst. in taxes of last earned heads. And after pressure from a radicalized LO, all principles are pushed aside. A double taxation of dividends on shares that violates the principle of neutrality is introduced against all professional councils, whereby those who invest their money in business activities are taxed at a higher rate than those who passively place the money in the bank. As recently as last autumn, Jens Stoltenberg concluded in the debate on the throne that the effective tax rate for profits in companies had risen sharply as a result of the tax settlement: “Lavere tax rates have thus increased taxes.” And then, “Without the reform, the actual tax on capital would have been lower.” But after we have agreed to increase the tax base and have a reduction in the tax rates, the Workers’ Party now goes out and says that we should keep the foundation, and even expand it, and also increase the rates. And then you say that the Norwegian rates are so low in relation to the rates otherwise in Europe. First of all, it's not true, but if you compare with Sweden, it's a couple of percent lower in Norway. But the foundation is so much wider that the real tax rate paid in Norway is higher than in Sweden. That is why that debate is becoming very daunting. With the large tax increases at the centre of the parties and the Workers' Party agreed, Norway is now at the top of Western Europe together with Sweden to have the highest tax pressure on shares and investments in business. The difference between the Swedes and us is that the Swedish Social Democratic Government, like other European governments, is reducing taxes. The result for Norway is that ideas about innovation projects are realised in other countries and that oil dependence is increasing. One of the most disturbing concerns in the budget is that the Government already announced in the 2002 draft budget that they would introduce a progressive capital tax. And it's also the Christian People's Party leader, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, has today given careful support in today's business. That model implies that, in addition to normal returns, profits in enterprises are taxed at a higher rate. This is a system that will punish the companies that make a lot of money in relation to the physical capital they use, for example. the new economy of competence as well as enterprises with large fluctuations in performance. I don't understand what the approach angle to that kind of tax model is. Is it the case that companies with high earnings should be penalised? That's the businesses we want more of. So those companies that have high earnings have to get an extra high tax rate. Then there will be a motivation for them to move beyond the borders of the country. Rather, they should be given an extra encouragement to those in the business community who earn well, because the income can then be invested in other businesses in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1159	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1162	I agree with Børge Brende that our business must be competitive in an increasingly international economy. But does not Burne agree that the most important thing in this way is that we keep the level of costs and interest rates under control? And does not the representative Burnde agree that the government's draft budget and in that way also the budgetary conciliation with its responsible framework are the most important contribution to a competitive business? Børge Brende focused a lot on tax. And that gives me reason to remind myself of what in many ways is, of course, tax is not a burden to punish or torment people and businesses. It is a necessary income to provide a well-being offer to all, all of whom want, and which also benefits business. Then there are two issues that have to be considered. One is collecting the tax level, and the other is dividing the tax. When it comes to the level of taxation, the representative Burned was a good part of it. There is no question of coughing up creative figures, because the actual conditions show that the estimated tax level in Norway in 1999 as part of gross domestic product is 41,8 p.p. In Denmark it is 50.6 pst., in Finland it is 46.5 pst. and in Sweden 52.1 pst. And if we take mainland Norway, it's 47 pst. Where, then, is the basis for claiming that this makes Norway the Annleisland, and that it competes with Norway and the Norwegian business community? So to the distribution. From 1990 to 1997, dividends paid to personal taxpayers have increased from DKK 1.5 billion to DKK 17.7 billion. Is it not reasonable that the tax should be distributed better than it has been so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1173	Norway is a different tax policy country with the current budgetary agreement because we are going in the wrong direction. While the countries around us are now reducing taxes and taxes, we are increasing them. In the revised national budget, the Government had a very good review of the level of taxation in Europe, where it is actually written that for mainland Norway, the proportion was 47.6 p.p. The average for OECD countries was 32.4 pst. Many Norwegian companies will then face a competition with companies with a tax base of 32.4 pst. I also mentioned Germany as an example, where the German Social Democrats now reduce to 42 pst, and Ireland, where they have 12 pst. corporate taxation. I think the government was absolutely right in ours when they wrote that the possibilities to increase tax revenue are limited in the years that come. After writing it, when you come up with proposals on the increase in taxes and taxes of the time, I cannot believe that it has the basis of a vision of value creation in Norway. Rather, it must be based on internal needs to satisfy its own left-hand side. And in terms of competitiveness and cost levels in Norway, we have now, for the seventh consecutive year, had higher cost growth than our competitors. It will probably also continue with the premises put in the national budget, so there is nothing to shout for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1186	Right and Børge Brende, in my view, has a fanatical view of the use of oil money in the Norwegian economy. And the fear of that is of course, as they have expressed on several occasions, the pressure in the Norwegian economy. So that's where we disagree. But we might have thought that another thing could be agreed on, and it's the Foreign Budget of the Advance Party, which is going to purchase equipment for hospitals, purchase of rescue and police helicopters, purchase of research equipment, police cars and other equipment, ICT equipment for the education sector, defence equipment – we have some planes that need to be replaced – and more money for road construction, more for tourism advertising abroad, replace some old equipment that you have at airports, so you get more modern equipment there, and buy study places abroad. This is money spent outside Norway, and it will not lead to pressure in the Norwegian economy. In fact, this will lead to exactly the opposite because new equipment will release work capacity from old working equipment, so that it will actually ease the pressure in the Norwegian economy. Then my question is, why won't the Right join in on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1193	Once again, it's very hard to explain to someone who thinks that the earth is flat, that it's round. With regard to the foreign budget of the Progress Party, I have not seen any professional economists who share the view of the Progress Party that it is possible to operate such a foreign budget over time. The point in the Norwegian economy today is that if you want to spend more money for good purposes, they either have to be covered by cutting costs if you don't want to increase interest rates or you can do something about the offer side, i.e. increase labour supply so that pressure decreases. You're not going to have to do anything about this if you're going to be able to use more resources. Of course, it is possible to build the four-field motorway for the Swedes in Sweden for Norwegian oil money, but I do not think it is a very good and forward-looking idea. At one point, the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed to the harvest, namely that we can use some of the petroleum assets to buy operating capacity abroad. I think that was a sensible proposal, which can be implemented even without creating extra pressure in the economy. But you can't help but assume that when you're going to make the difficult decisions here, you're being forced to make some choices. The progress party just wants the benefits and none of the disadvantages. If the budget of the Advance Party had been used as the basis for Norwegian economic policy in 2001 and 2002, I am convinced that it would have led to a strange price increase and a strangely high interest rate that would have broken the Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1202	The representative Burnde used all of his ten minutes to talk about taxes, preferably lower taxes, both in terms of private taxes and corporate taxes, and he gave the impression that Norwegian business really doesn't go so well. In fact, Norway is currently doing relatively well, including Norwegian business. But what was typical of the article for Burnde was that it was chemically pure for visions beyond our own little umbilical cord up here. What I want to challenge Børge Brende is Norway's international and global responsibility in relation to the fact that the world is – a bit squarely – divided into two. We have an infinitely rich part of the world, and we have an infinitely poor part of the world that lives in extreme distress. It starts gradually becoming a repetition that when the Right is going to solve challenges at home, you take from the very poorest. You do that this time, too. This is starting to become so striking that gradually it may seem as if reducing the aid has become a battle cause for the Right. To the extent that right at a given time wants to be in government with, among other things, Christian People's Party, at least this has not helped make yourself nominally tasty. My challenge to Børge Burnde, from his value-conservative point of view, is: Does he feel really comfortable that one of the greatest and first things to deal with when to balance the budget to make already well-filled wallets even more full, is to take from the very poorest of the world's society? Does Brande feel that this is good old-fashioned value-conservative policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1213	Unfortunately, I think the representative was a little too busy with the map instead of the terrain in his line. If you study the Right Alternative Budget, we'll spend over $10 billion on assistance. That it should be to hit the third world, I can't really understand. But what we're doing in addition, which is not part of the agreement between the centre parties and the Workers' Party, is proposing to liberalize all trade in goods. It involves the abolition of customs duties and quotas and restrictions on imports of all product types from the MUL countries. We are also concerned that, over time, we can simply open up customs freedom and tariff reductions in relation to imports from different developing countries. I think that actually means a lot. Often it can mean more, and it's better to help the third world that way than through what might be perceived as alms. So the fact that the Right spends so much money on the Third World in its alternative budget, combined with these measures, I think is a very good arrangement for the underdeveloped countries. It's also the case that we need to become a little bit more aware of what this support is all about. We have traditionally been very concerned with project support, and it has often become a sleeping cushion for some regimes. I think we need to be better at making demands on the recipient countries. Just look at the situation that has now arisen in Zimbabwe and with Mugabe. Mugabe has spent more money every day on war in Zaire than he has spent on health and education in his own country. Nevertheless, aid is flowing in. Isn't it time to make some demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1222	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1226	Putting a winner's argument on the revenue side of a budget is demanding from most people. In particular, it is demanding to represent a party that does not buy selectors with tax bills in buckets and buckets, but is going to bet on people seeing the whole budget. For the Workers' Party and our voters, it is essential that the distribution of taxes is based on the individual's ability to tax. In the draft budget for next year, we have therefore proposed that something be slowed down in the private sector in order to release resources for the public sector. It is a cross of thought to record the impact of private business on trying to put in place something more from them for the benefit of the community. Anything else should be better. A settlement is to give and take – the sum of the results of the negotiations shall be acceptable to all parties. The budget agreement with the parties provides for restrictions on the depreciation rules for industry and the business cycle charge for non-residential buildings, half of the food tax with increased general taxes and higher taxes on housing in addition. I'm going to think that someone could think of the Workers' Party's arrangement for distribution on a number of points. I am responsible for the fees at the Arbeiderpartiet, therefore first a few words in connection with the VAT. Paying taxes on what we buy is accepted as a fair collection of taxes. The strength of VAT is that it is, in principle, a general and not a distortive charge, i.e. a charge that is to deposit into the treasury in an efficient, neutral manner. When our consumption is increasingly linked to services, it is acceptable that the basis for VAT should also apply to them – a conclusion from the Storvik Committee was reached in 1990. The question of differentiated rates was discussed in a public inquiry already in 1993. The conclusion was that a differentiation of value added tax by, for example, reducing the rate of the levy on food products is a small and effective instrument in the distribution policy. Already then, it was shown that differentiated VAT could motivate large-scale lobbying to reduce rates for what can be called ‘its business’. In dealing with differential rates in comparison with the central parties, however, we have moved in this direction for us in the Stortingen demanding direction, now there are still some demarcation designs in the department, i.e. the design of the regulations. Of course, one should be humble in terms of giving advice to the newly chosen bigning of the next harvest. But one should be: look closely at those who sign up as tax rate reducers, in relation to the needs of the community! Should changes be made, they should be directed towards increasing neutrality in the VAT system. So some words concretely to the setting. Half of the food tax is assumed to result in a reduction in the consumption prices of agricultural products of approx. 8 pst. In other foods, the price reduction should be up to 10 pst. We are now dealing with the concrete proposals in this context. The law of the rest of the details comes up to treatment in Odelstinget Thursday. There are circuses in place during culture, travel life is taken in with skis, as are amusement parks and entertainment centres — to mention some adjustments in the context of the VAT reform. The turnover of electric cars gets VAT at zero rate, a significant contribution to ensuring an environmentally friendly alternative in traffic, so you're probably very happy about it. But it therefore breaks – again – with the principles of what should have been a reform. In the case of other passenger car charges, I can show that these have a device that, with today's technology, takes environmental and safety into account. In order to facilitate the more environmentally friendly cars of tomorrow, a unanimous committee proposes a process aimed at modernising legislation in 2003. In this context, cooperation with professional and consumer organisations is assumed. Here, the representative Kenneth Svendsen can also be given the opportunity to use his knowledge constructively. The challenges associated with alcohol and alcohol taxes are multifaceted. My attitude and that of the Workers' Party is that the alcohol taxes, especially for spirits, must be reduced, among other things. to strengthen legal turnover. Unfortunately, a combination of this with significant relief in the taxes on low-alcohol beer was not implemented now, and there is a lot to be said about it. But we're going to hope for better penetration next time. With extremely high oil prices, Norwegian consumers have also responded to the State’s taxes on petrol and diesel. Petrol taxes are now being reduced to Swedish level. Diesel taxes will be further reduced in the coming year, to a total of 82 cents. In addition, the extraordinary sulphur charge of 26 ears is removed. This levy is replaced by a positive price stimulus for low-sulphur diesel. Thus, the effect of VAT, which in turn reduces these fuel charges significantly, comes to light. It is a significant step towards harmonising our level of fees here also in relation to Sweden. The industry maintains an exemption from the electricity charge, and the sulphur charge on coal and coke is halved, a result of the conciliation. In other words, fees that are relevant to the environment are adjusted, but devices are maintained in relation to the improvement of the environment. Finally, in this context, I would like to refer to the exemption from the electricity charge on district heating plants and the Committee's directive on the re-evaluation of the final treatment charge on waste. Our unilateral use of electricity for heating needs to be speedily complemented by heat produced from other least polluting energy sources, transported in the district heating system. Our decisions in this position are an important contribution in this context. It might sound a little special, but I've found it interesting and inspiring to work on charging questions. It's really just my mom who doesn't like those things there. She has often told me that it might be age-old to work in a committee where you distribute money, instead of raping money from people! But someone has to do it too. And after all, it's all income for a lot of good purposes that people in this room often feel that there's too little money for. So with a little bit of melancholy, I recommend the majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1255	Dalheim should have listened to Mommy's voice! I sat and watched TV this day, and there, right in front of me, the representative Erik Dalheim showed up with his gentle sight. It was in the TV2 programme ‘The State of the Kingdom’. He was asked how we had got such an insanely high charge on cars. I don't take much wrong, he said it was just like that. I believe him. So my first question to Dalheim is, how can we now get these charges down again? The difference between sitting in the Financial Committee of the Progress Party and the Labour Party is that for the Progress Party, it is an objective to make minimum taxes and contributions from the population, while for the Labour Party it is, among other things, that: The representative Dalheim is set to raise money for everything between heaven and earth. As I am the representative of Dalheim concerned with car and car use. I have registered that he has come back several times in the chamber as a beaten man after the group meetings, the last time he had to go in to remove this van. As a fellow human, I think it's a pity. So I'd like to ask Erik Dalheim if he can tell me what kind of feelings he's left with when, for the Workers' Party, he's drummed through – and had to put forward – these proposals of increased taxes and taxes, which lead to job losses, now last but not least, when he helped to remove this van. He must be left with mixed emotions, and both I and Stortinget could hear a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1264	As I said in my main post, the money we take in the form of taxes and charges, money for very many good purposes that a large majority here in Stortinget prioritizes. In the case of the van, with the cashier like Kenneth – Kenneth Svendsen, President! - know well, it is clear that it is a little special how to hunt for limitations so that the revenues from car charges will be as high as possible. High charges are a very good incentive in terms of finding loopholes so that one does not have to pay what most people pay. I have been quoted on TV2 that the fees will only be like this. It's not that simple. It's very conscious when the charges just turn out like that, and on vans we have a slightly special situation that those who buy that type of car pay 20 pst. of what a purchaser of a passenger car does. Then it is clear that there is a lot of good creativity associated with getting within the framework of having a van, even if no one, when you see the car from the outside, feels at all that it is the kind of dodging you drive around with. How can the fees be reduced? I believe that the process to move forward to 2003 will lead to the most environmentally friendly and traffic-proof cars becoming cheaper, just as the type of cars became cheaper in the charging system when we made the big conversion in 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1273	I want to commend the representative Erik Dalheim as the man who does the job no one else likes, namely to argue enthusiastically and very insightfully and a little selfishly about the excellence of the fees, but also their necessity and many functions in the national budget and in national policies. I think it is commendable that someone dares to profile himself as a fiscal spokesman so clearly in a political world where sucking and yelling as much as possible on behalf of taxpayers in the world's richest country is a sport many are participating in. Dalheim probably remembers our common ambitions when we dealt with green taxes in 1998. And we're doing a right in this budget in that way, because we haven't succeeded in taking into account some of the both the regional and the economic effects of the ambitions we had then. We thought the polluter would pay, but the polluter would not, or could not, and it is the environment that has to pay. We haven't found the right way to do this. We've learned to be more careful, and at least not faster than we want to commit ourselves to international. We did a lot of good work in 1998 when we dealt with this, and we had hopes for Kyoto. But as I said, many things have gone much slower than we anticipated and hoped for. And the rain doesn't seem to end. So I want to ask the representative Dalheim if he can come up with some ideas about what new steps we need to take in order to get a better green tax system, and also get a more sustainable business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1284	Of course, finding new things about how to get a better environment is demanding. But I think we can take from the reality that in principle Norway is the key to further improving the environment, not just in our country, but in an entire region. And it's related to us being a major electricity producer, which is stored in dams. So we have electricity in stock, which nobody else has. And it's the ambitious project that's going to put in place a system in the market where you'll appreciate the environmental costs of electricity production, which will give the effect in our system the benefits it deserves. I believe that very many of the other steps we are trying to take locally – this is trying to trick us into getting something extra, for example, an electricity charge in the industry – next is a downgrading of the industry’s struggle every day compared to competing with the neighbor. I think a lot of things are in good rental there. But I think we basically have something to pick up by being able to turn our great potential of electricity into what it should be, the key to a better environment related to energy consumption in a large region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1291	Through Dalheim’s main posts, we have just heard a long-standing speech by a long-term speech by a tax-policy spokesman – with resentment and many reservations. Hardly any representative has had and has as much detailed insight into a complicated charging system as just the representative Dalheim. At the same time, he has a way of talking about taxes that make the expression ‘fees with a human face’ quite striking. [[muttering in the hall]] I understand that Dalheim does not wish his colleagues happiness in the next great age. To justify this, I would like to take an example: Russian caviar must have half VAT, while children's clothing must have full VAT. Or you can choose other random examples such as that the hamburger out there should have other taxes than the hamburger in the store. In fact, I think it is a blind lead to this, even though I record that EU opponents with zeal and enthusiasm argue that EU countries have also made such mistakes. I can then be frank and admit that there are even more mistakes committed in the EU countries. If you ask the politicians there if they want to do it again, you get a relatively clear answer, no, they don't want it at all. But we're going to do it. I also think it is sad that the Workers' Party gives its tax-policy spokesman – yes, one who actually dares to say in Stortinget that he is responsible for the fees at the Workers' Party – the refusal to respond to him by doing exactly the opposite of what Dalheim recommended as late as in spring, when he said: "The Labour Party will halve the fee on alcohol and introduce a new fee for the fee of less than 10 kroner of the bottle."
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1303	I would like to thank the representative Per-Kristian Foss for the collegial, pleasant words, and I would like to end this little tendon related to fees by saying that I agree with Per-Kristian Foss' posts! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1308	That was the end of this line change. The scheduled time for the evening meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that negotiations continue – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1313	Since the inauguration of our parliamentary leader, Odd Roger Enoxen, took on the big features of the budget, I want to focus my contribution on education. An old saying sounds like this: it's expensive to be poor. I want to write about it a little bit and say that it can be expensive for Norway to be rich if we don't know how to spend the money on long-term investment like research and education. For knowledge, it is the key to further developing the welfare society, not least at a time when society becomes more diverse and individual choices are greater than ever. There is no point in Norway being at the bottom of the OECD country rankings in terms of research efforts. I was both surprised and disappointed that the government had not invested any more money in this area, especially after the strong leadership that the Workers' Party gave when they were in opposition. The Council of State, Gishe, believes that universities are exaggerating in their opinions on the poor draft budget. It doesn't agree with the centre parties, and fortunately, we have achieved a significant increase. 210 million. more to universities will mean that the study space cuts will not be carried out and that resources for basic research will be improved. With all the open studies available at the universities, the proposed cuts would have very unfortunate consequences. Research and development activities in Norwegian business are too poor to achieve the necessary innovation, and Norway is far behind our neighbouring country. The budget agreement refers to the suspension of the Hervik Committee and the Government proposes a new grant scheme. We think that in the Central Party is good, and furthermore it is good that the Government should come back to the revised national budget with further follow-up in order to improve R & D efforts. The budgetary agreement also led to an increase for the higher education sector. As we know, higher education is a very important instrument in regional policy contexts. The study space cuts were not as dramatic as the Government wanted, and the process of conversion could be intensified. All available statistics and forecasts indicate that Norway has a significant shortage of engineers, estimated at 10,000 to 15 000 over an eight-year period. Access to qualified engineers will be a critical factor in future industrial and business value creation for the rest of the world, commenting on several disciplines. In my view, therefore, it is short-term to reduce the number of places of study now. The centre party is well pleased that we have received an average of more money to advance the engineering study. People with a degree or secondary education are potential applicants for these courses. Experience shows that there is a great deal of interest and attention to the courses, and the vast majority of students go to various engineering studies. If Norway is to become something more than a commodity nation, we need to invest more in technology where the real subjects are the basic plan itself. State Council Gieske wants a FRISK school, and the Center Party can support him in it, but it requires the school to get the necessary framework conditions. Unfortunately, in these days there are hard cuts in the municipal budgets that hit the school, and many cross-border schools are being laid down beyond the whole country. This has dramatic consequences for both the learning environment and the settlement. The centre party is pleased that there was a further increase to the municipalities of 1250 million. kr. Hopefully, this can help us get fresh schools in healthy communities. There the school is the central meeting point far beyond being the training arena. The central government proposed last year and endorsed a package of measures aimed at quality development in primary school, with particular emphasis on youth. This school package will include: provide skills enhancement for teachers, alternative hourly resource allocation and ICT bets. It is gratifying that the school package will be continued in the State budget and that it will now be increased by 25 million after the budgetary agreement. kr. There are many parallel views on the quality development of the school sector between the centre parties and the Labour Party, but there are also clear differences. The following quotation from the working party fraction's specific comment in the setting is: ‘Lending scheme’ — by school books — ‘helps to promote educational innovation and quality development in schools, where students and teachers cooperate’. This, in my view, is a gross exaggeration, to say it carefully. My references from high schools have completely different descriptions of the lending scheme, but I leave that in my mind. For the Centre Party, quality in school means an optimal learning environment in which each student is given appropriate training, and where the learning and creativity are stimulated so that the individual can feel mastery, in short, that one succeeds. There's a good deal left before this goal is reached, but we must never have four on these high ambitions for our coming generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1344	There is a broad welcome in the Norwegian people that fair distribution is an important objective and that the public should have a high level of responsibility for the provision of welfare in order to ensure the fairest possible distribution. At the same time, the population demands the standard of public supply and that quality is good. I think it's good that people don't like that we have schools with a bad indoor climate, that people don't think that in some municipalities there's still a shortage of nursing homes, or that there are 70,000 kids who are poor on our scale. I'm glad that the majority of Norwegian people are calling about the values that lie in a safe welfare offer for everyone. Against this background, I am also very pleased with the next year's budget that is going to be adopted here in the Stortinget. Public welfare is a priority both in the Government's draft budget and in the final budgetary agreement with the central parties. This is true in a situation where private welfare is high, while many municipalities struggle to ensure a good offer to their citizens. This is redistribution from private wealth to many municipalities that have difficulty. When the income of the local government sector actually increases by DKK 5 billion in relation to the starting point of the municipal economy proposal, and the local government sector is also compensated for the working time agreement for teachers and extended holidays by DKK 3.4 billion, and the budget agreement for the local government sector is also compensated for increased expenditure on child and survivors' pensions, there is reason to say that there is a very good municipal structure that will be adopted here in Stortinget. It is a scheme for 2001 which could provide room for increased activity and better service provision in the municipal sector. However, it is also the case that municipalities themselves have to contribute to the necessary conversion and efficiency measures. There are a number of municipalities that are struggling, either because they are threatened by large relocations or because they experience large population growth. This, and the fact that some municipalities are in a difficult situation because of debt, is the situation that we will come back to in connection with the 2002 municipal planning, which is presented to spring. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus on the main features of the municipal structure for next year, and I will also add for district policy. But there are some exceptions to that, and I will especially use some words in the Advancement Party. With their approach, district municipalities both in the West and in Northern Norway would experience significant income failure. This, in turn, would have a major impact on the operation of kindergartens, schools, the school leisure system, care for the elderly and other municipal activities. Besides that people would notice this in their everyday lives, the consequence would probably also be that even more would move from Utrant-Norway to the press areas around the big cities. Such a closure of District Norway is bad news for those who live in counties such as Finnmark and the rest of North Norway, as well as small municipalities around South Norway, which are also located in the districts. These changes I am now referring to are understandable when you read the Progress Party program. They do not cater for districts, but want lower taxes and smaller transfers, which will lead to a lower public offer. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has asserted that when they have been confronted with its unsocial profile on the municipal economy structure, the consequences are such that they do not adversely affect the municipalities. Because they write in their settings: ‘The dynamic effect of the overall arrangement of the Progress Party will more than compensate for this loss of income through reduced price growth and reduced wage increases’. Many fine words, but where is the evidence that this will happen? The Progress Party creates theoretical scenarios in which it is really people's everyday lives that are sacrificed for their tax haven and for their negative redistribution policy. The Progress Party may also, among other things: relate to a strongly limiting factor that ties us to others in the Storting but also makes the so-called dynamic effect of the Progress Party less credible, namely the lack of labour. We lack nurses, drivers, shop staff, IT experts, engineers, bus drivers, kindergarten teachers and unskilled workers. What's the Progress Party going to do with that? They will cut into the labour market budget, which is the most important and effective means of getting immigrants, social welfare recipients and other vulnerable groups into work. Moreover, they will limit immigration as much as possible. The lack of labour will hardly be a minor problem in the future, but there seems to be a great deal of concern about the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1374	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1377	There is no doubt that the Workers' Party and the Centre together have contributed to providing the Norwegian people with one of the largest tax increases of the time, for the next year. It is now being worked hard to imagine that higher taxes and taxes are the only gratifying thing for the Norwegian economy. The total tax burden for next year is increasing significantly both for businesses, for employees and for cities and countries. The working party is thus delighted to have received the largest tax increase in the time. I noticed, among other things. the financial committee’s chairman concluded his main contribution by saying that the budgetary agreement brings Norway forward. All right. What is bringing Norway forward? Shouldn't be, among other things, to facilitate better conditions for housing and value creation in District Norway, which is therefore the responsibility of the Minister of Municipal Affairs? Brustad accused the Advance Party of wanting to depopulate the districts. In the past, however, the prime minister of the municipality has stated that a competitive business is crucial for rural settlements. Several district municipalities experience daily relocation due to lack of jobs, and not primarily a shortage of labour, as she tried to produce it. Does not the Council of State think that the next year will be slowed down due to this short-term cost of industrial buildings? Does she think that the economic cost of industrial buildings will not affect the desire for establishment in District Norway at all? Is it so that this short-term cost of business buildings is 10 pst. is good district policy and that this is an advantage for job creation in District Norway? I'm just wondering, and she should answer that when she criticized the Advancement Party so categorically in her post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1386	There are many differences between the Labour Party and the Advance Party. One of the biggest differences I would say is that we have a totally different distribution policy. Where the Progress Party is most concerned about giving tax relief to some of them in this country who have the best, the Workers' Party is concerned that we also have money for the community, to spend to help some of us who have the worst. In fact, the bill that the Progress Party sends to many for some of the richest to get even more tax relief means that people in other countries who have the worst in the world get less in assistance from Norway if the Progress Party had decided. This would mean that those who are sick, and especially those who are long - term ill, would get less in sick pay if the Advance Party had decided. This would include, inter alia: This means that we have received fewer welfare services around the municipalities, both for kindergartens, school services, health, the elderly and other things, which the Progress Party says will be more of. That is what is the consequence of the municipal structure that the Progress Party has presented here today. In addition, it is also likely that the economic arrangements of the Progress Party presented in this budget would lead to an increase in interest rates. We know who's losing it. In particular, the worst-case scenario is the loss of interest. I must also say, in relation to the District Policy of the Advance Party, that Mr Andersen here was very concerned about, that when the Progress Party goes in to cut North Norway subsidies, regional subsidies, exceptional discretion, etc. there is no doubt about which municipalities in this country are most affected by it. There are just municipalities in our northernmost part of the country. There are particularly small district municipalities that would be affected by the policy put forward by the Progress Party, and there is no question of a strengthening of District Norway. It's the opposite. That is why I firmly believe that the structure of the Progress Party is a bad policy, even in relation to District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1397	The municipalities are under pressure, while the municipality minister and others in Regierningen tell us that the municipal economy is better with several billions. While it is not untrue, local politicians actually have to cut down on the welfare supply in a lot of municipalities. Let's do an example. In the Austrheim municipality of Horda-land they had a salary increase of 8 pst in the last year. Of course, the increase in the municipal economy at macro level is well above that of about a quarter of the total population. 2 pst. same way you calculate it. This means that local politicians have to cut down on care, schoolwork and most of it. Even if it doesn't look the same in all municipalities, it actually turns out like this in a lot of municipalities, because I don't think Austrheim is typical. It's clear that they're happy with the agreement, that there's $1.25 billion in improvements to keep the housing support up-distant, and that there's going to be a little bit more to go. But they are left with some sort of blackmail when the municipal minister presents the budget as a lift to the municipalities. The pressure for better welfare services is increasing, but local politicians cannot meet this challenge. All they're asking for now, at least to me, is that government and big things tell me that the municipalities with this budget actually have to cut down and cut down on welfare. In time, will the Minister of Local Affairs tell people what the budget will mean to many places at the municipal level?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1408	I have never hidden the fact that there are some municipalities in our country that, for various reasons, are in a difficult financial situation, and that the municipalities have been given more tasks than we have financially been able to follow up with also from Stortinget's side. However, I am convinced that the municipal planning for the next year is actually one of the best that has been in very many years. And I'm glad that there's been an agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party on a community structure that we have in common, which means a significant strengthening of the municipal sector next year, and that will mean better welfare provision for our citizens. I also hope that in some contexts there may be a little less peculiarities, for example. in relation to kindergartens. I think it's important to remember that what we're doing exceptionally now, which isn't done over ten years, is we're going in and compensating for pay, for teachers, and for vacations. Of course, I think that's absolutely right that we're doing, but that's also something that we're doing as an extra boost in addition to the 5 billion kroner that the com-munic sector gets. Of course, we will also follow up the situation in Kommune-Norge in the municipal economic proposition that we come back to Stortinget in May, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss this further. But I believe that the municipalities with the scheme that will be adopted here tomorrow have good opportunities to make good offers for their citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1417	I think the Council of State will experience that reality is not the way she hopes when it comes to kindergarten prices. In fact, for those who have children in a private nursery, the budget that is adopted will not cover the increases in the cost of the sum of increases in fees that also apply to private kindergartens. And here we have an example of the fact that the Workers' Party, in addition to the four budgetary options in which they have either been in the budget or in the opposition, has not been able to deliver a budget that actually brings down child care prices. It's just talk, talk and talk, and there's a lot of symbols and no executive power. The budget agreement has changed the premise of the municipal economy in relation to the government's arrangements. In the government's approach, the tax and tax increases were mainly focused on business issues, and then VAT came in. The main structure has now been changed by significantly more of the increase in fees and income coverage in areas that will lead to general price increases in Norway. In practice, this means that the action space for the municipalities and the appropriations that are given is less than what was planned by the Government, which is in line with the arrangement agreed by the Right and the Workers' Party in connection with the municipal economic proposition in ours. I would like to have the State Council's comments on whether she has assessed the effects of the price increase, the effects of the extra electricity charge, i.e. the effects of the indirect system on the smaller space of action. But it is also true that once VAT has been introduced on all types of services, the VAT compensation system appears to be a problem in relation to the municipal sector, because it is only linked to four categories of services, while the municipalities now face the usual dilemma, a situation where they ask: Should we choose our own producer, or should we buy services in this area? The budget ceiling now leads to different competitions. Will the Council look at the possibilities of changing the VAT compensation system in relation to municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1430	Let me first say that I do not agree with the description that Solberg's representative had here, either by the Labour Party's policy or by what would be the result of the agreement that will be adopted tomorrow. Let me also say – first in the case of kindergartens: Representative Solberg says about the Workers' Party that when we talk about kindergartens, it's 'just talk, talk and talk', but we had, as far as I remember, under the government of Jagland in a year's expansion record when it was the number of kindergartens. One of the reasons why the prices of kindergartens have increased – I am not going to draw up a debate that we have had many times in this room – is the cash support, which we all know about, and we can agree on it or disagree on. But it's a clear goal to bring down the nursery prices, and when we go in with increased state subsidies to kindergartens, it's also to hope that prices are gradually falling, even though I know that more private kindergartens are in a special situation. With regard to the issue of the area of action for the local government sector, I would just like to repeat what I have said, that with the budgetary agreement that will be adopted tomorrow, where it will amount to DKK 1.25 billion more than what the government has proposed, it will be no less, but greater freedom of action for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1441	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1444	In the Question Time last Wednesday, the representative Sponheim asked the Prime Minister if he did not think the budgetary settlement was better than the Government's proposal. Of course, the Prime Minister didn't think so. But the answer is that they're both equally evil, it's just a question where you see it from. Both impose increased burdens on both industry and the population of this country at a time when national incomes are record high, and many have difficulties in understanding that this almost unimaginable state wealth must necessarily lead to increased taxes and taxes on the population. Increased VAT, increased electricity tax and a sharp increase in the tax on housing are without regard to income, and the lowest incomes are hit hardest. When we know that the local government around the country is now also ready to increase the VAR fees, for most municipalities far beyond the overall price increase, it is little to rejoice with most of us next year. Much imagination and energy have been put into finding ways to increase the burden for most people, while little or nothing has been done to find ways to let people share in the state wealth, without increasing the pressure on the economy. That this is possible, many economists have pointed out. It is clearly right, as several commentators have pointed out, that the best thing about this budget agreement is that it has made the distinctions in Norwegian policy clearer, with the Workers' Party and the Centre parties, which represent tax and tax increases for most people, on the one hand, and the Progress Party and the Right, which want considerable relief in the same taxes and taxes, on the other. This will give voters clearer options. So a few words about the local economy. The community economy is used as a collective concept both in the attitude and in the debate in such a way that one can get the impression that the economy is similar in all municipalities — and equally poor everywhere. But that's far from the truth. In fact, there are very large differences in income between Norwegian municipalities. The extra points are Sandefjord on 85 pst. of the national average and Bykle of 372 p.m. Then it becomes obvious to me that the expression ‘municipal economy’ only helps to derail the debate and to cover what this really should be about, namely, the big, politicians, the differences between municipalities. Both the Labour Party and the Centre Parties have almost identical comments about the local economy in the financial position, where they say, and I quote from the Workers' Party's remark: ‘These members will stress that an equivalent service offer across the country is the objective’; and from the comments of the centre lots: «The overall objective of the income system must be to contribute to an equivalent municipal and county service provision in all parts of the country.» Based on these excellent formulations, it is interesting to see how the system these batches have developed works in practice. The framework system consists of a number of grants: community grants, which are granted on objective criteria, North Norway grants, which, as the name implies, are given only to municipalities in Northern Norway, regional grants, which are to take care of the small municipalities in the districts, discretion grants, which do not know how to prioritise, and a capital grant, which is linked to the transfer of corporate taxes to the State. To see how this system works in practice, an example can be quite elucidating. Alta municipality in Finnmark and Kristiansund in More and Romsdal have both approx. 17 000 inhabitants. The population benefit is Alta 111 million. SEK and Kristiansund 120 million. kr. So this is what the municipalities get according to objective criteria, which should provide the basis for a similar service provision. The North Norway grant is based on political views and gives Alta 93.5 million. kr. Over the discretionary grant, both municipalities get the same thing, approximately. $12 million. kr. So while according to the objective criteria, Kristiansund got $9 million. kr more than Alta, the income system ensures that Alta receives 83 million. kr more than Kristiansund. But it's not over yet. Alta municipality does not pay an employer’s fee for its employees, while Kristiansund pays 14.1 pst. of the total payroll to the State. This saves Alta at the top of 31 million. So NOK and creates an income difference between these two municipalities of 114 million. kr per year. Then it is not so strange that we in Dagsrevyen today saw a researcher sitting and telling us that the richest municipalities in Norway are located in Finnmark, and that they are the worst able to take advantage of the income they have, and really do not have much better services than the rest of the municipalities in the country. Here, there's a significant distance between rhetoric and action. What do these parties actually mean? Do they mean what they're saying, or do they mean what they're actually doing? The Progress Party wants a reduction in both the North Norway supplement, the regional grant and the discretionary grant, and will transfer the money to the citizen’s subsidy so that it is possible to approach the goal of both the Workers’ Party and the Centre they say they have. The promotion party wants to achieve this objective in a different way, by financing the main municipal services such as school, health and care as a state responsibility, but within today’s system a rapid conversion is absolutely necessary. I refer to Innst. S. No 38 and mentions proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, in that setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1480	Per Erik Monsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1484	Many people experience the state budget most as numbers and little policy. But the different government budget options that are now in the lead, are visible and concrete, as well as the different parties' policies, values and goals. More clearly than in the past, we see the lines of Norwegian policy. It is good for the vitalisation of the political debate, and it is good for people to join in one direction or another. The left-hand side of Norwegian policy, with its centre of gravity, will promote and enhance public welfare based on community solutions. We will strengthen the public sector through transformation and economic growth as a means of achieving this. The right-hand side, especially the Progress Party, will downgrade the public sector and increasingly make welfare services for purchase and sale. Yes, in their draft budget, the Progress Party will also build up regional policy instruments and weaken the local economy. Agriculture in the districts would be very careful if they got raw, and what would be left of measures for the unemployed, school-time provision and workers’ rights to, among others. Sick pay, to name something? The government's budget proposal had some clear objectives: we should bet on a fairer distribution by giving more to the community to those who already have the most. The anti-sampling message provided by the Bondevik government clearly showed that income differences grew in the 1990s. This is not due to increase differences in pay for work, here the solidarity option has done its job, but there is a debt of increasing differences in capital income. From 1990 to 1997, dividends paid to personal taxpayers have increased from DKK 1.5 billion to DKK 17.7 billion. Today it's like the 5 pst. The richest take 90 pst. of all share dividends. The Solidarity option is based on three pillars: budgetary policy must ensure employment, monetary policy must ensure a stable crown over time, and income policy must take responsibility for moderate wage developments. If we are to continue the option of solidarity, which requires understanding and joining moderate wage earners, those who have made themselves rich in capital income must give more to the community. In addition, we will improve hospital services and other health services, psychiatry services, care for the elderly, education, research, childcare services, the community sector – yes, overall increased efforts on the common good. Despite a huge increase in sick pay and disability, a ring will ring about the processed dishes. This increase in social security payments will, in my view, require us to meet with measures that increase the possibility of taking part in the labour market, including those with reduced working capacity. Greater flexibility in working life and measures towards business and the public in order to add those unable to make full efforts must be achieved. It will give these groups a more meaningful life, but it is also necessary for the creation of value at a time when there is a shortage of labour, and it is necessary not to continue to increase the cost of popularism to the extent you now see. We will also, in our wealth, strengthen international solidarity and increase aid resources. Not all means of assistance may always have been used properly and efficiently. But many here have been given the opportunity to travel and have seen how these funds have arrived and really given help to the poorest of the poor and often the only thing that has given them survival opportunities. It reveals the value of the Progress Party and their willingness to help the weakest when they propose a cut of nearly $7 billion compared to their Government proposal. The budget should help to give all equal opportunities to work, education and welfare services, irrespective of geographical, social or other considerations. The goal is a better distribution for all of what we create together. We know that we have a good welfare society, but that's not good enough for everyone. We cannot accept in our rich society that sick and elderly people do not receive that treatment and care they are entitled to. We cannot accept that thousands of young people do not have the opportunity to participate in the supply that young people normally receive, because of poverty. If we're going to be able to prioritize and do something for these groups, we have to distribute the good that we have, better. But if we are to distribute, our business must be competitive in an increasingly international economy. Therefore, we must keep the level of costs under control. Is the State over-exploiting oil money, increasing demand for all kinds of goods and services, and at a time when there is a shortage of labour, costs rise. So the Bank of Norway has to dampen this demand to raise interest rates, and so we all lose. I see that someone claims that both the government's budget proposal and the reconciliation between the Labour Party and the Centre are a hostile business arrangement. To say that the most important thing for business is just to keep cost levels under control. It's not just a socio-economic theory, but it should have taught us the experiences of the last decade. After years of high unemployment, industrial bankruptcy, and debt crisis for many, Norway was on the verge of solidarity. It was easy to understand how to reduce the employer’s pay by 2.6 percentage points in 1993 when the business community so absolutely needed it, but it is strongly reacted from the same groups when it comes to proposing a short-term cost of 1.5pst. where there is a need to mitigate the pressure in the private sector while at the same time providing room for strengthening the common good. If one is to be closed by providing more public welfare and ensuring a more equal distribution, one has to do some grips that collect money from the richest, and slow down the growth of the private sector. That's why we came here. the proposal for a tax on dividends on shares and the short-term tax. We have a budget agreement with the centre. That's right, and that's good for the country. The budget agreements show that we are united in increasing investment in important welfare areas such as health, care for the elderly, school and kindergarten, more equitable national and international distribution, facilitating taxation of lower labour incomes and increases in the means of assistance, and security of work and the personal economy through the responsible use of oil revenues in order not to increase the pressure on jobs and interest rates. Taxes on dividends on shares are retained, albeit at a slightly lower tax rate. In my view, the government’s proposal for a short-term economic tax was a good cyclical mitigation tool that distributed the impact on the entire business community, not only competitive business. But the contract for the short-term fee of 10 pst. in manufacturing and a reduction in depreciation rates also have much of the same impact. The parties also agree on the principle of a new tax reform. More equitable distribution, neutrality between different forms of investment and financing and forms of activity, effective taxation of capital income, convergence between capital taxation and labour so that the sharing model is thereby liquidated, are principles that are very correct and important for a fair tax system. Now it is that in a budget compromise a both give and get, and therefore it is not all in such an agreement that I am equally satisfied with for my part. Our proposal had a better distribution profile, and then it is good that one also within some areas goes in the right direction. Budgetary agreements have entered into the VAT reform, and one has found it possible to ignore tourism with ski lifts and other experiences when it comes to VAT. I'm very happy about that. A lot of travel life would probably live at a reduced rate of VAT, but it is the holiday and leisure-based tourism industry in the regions with the most vulnerable marginal economy. At the same time, it's an industry that has a potential for growth that District Norway needs. All in all, there will be a good budget that will be agreed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1510	It is clear both from this and from previous speeches today that it is the Progress Party designated as the main opponent of the Workers' Party, and that it promises well for the coming year. The representative Rudihagen and I agree on one thing, and that is that the budgets presented make clear the political differences. I think that's good. We go into a year where there are choices, and where it's kind of clearer distinctions. The Norwegian people therefore have a simpler choice in this election than they have in perhaps many years. «Comprehensive distribution» are the honorary orders used, in particular from the Workers' Party. It is likely that they want to appear to be running a kind of Robin Hood policy, where they take from the rich – including the representative – and give to the poor. I see that in the budgetary agreement this is to the extent of taking away from the rich, but I have great problems finding where to give to the poor. That was the main reason for Robin Hood's popularity. I would like to ask: where is the gift package for the poor in this budget? Those who do not have a very good economy also receive an increased electricity tax, including those who own a dwelling – and quite a few with low incomes own a dwelling – receive an increased tax on housing, they also receive increased VAT, and those who should be lucky enough to have a car also receive an increased annual tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1521	One of the main concepts of the government budget proposal was that one should strengthen the public services and provide everyone with the same level of supply as possible, both in terms of education, care for the elderly, health care, and the provision of childcare services. It is the most important redistribution procedure in the entire budget. That's what's the biggest move to meet those groups in society that don't have a bag of money to buy these services themselves. If you look at the Progress Party's economic structure, you'll see that it's going in exactly the opposite direction. There these welfare services are to a much greater extent made available for purchase and sale, and it will not least affect the weakest groups in society. That's why we've come up with suggestions for some grips to take in something more of the huge capital incomes that someone's made rich on. That's also why we're trying to add up to a tax system that provides tax relief for those with the lowest income, and that makes them have to pay something more with the highest income. To the extent that this can be compared to Robin Hood and his arrangement, it's okay. It's some kind of distribution that will definitely benefit the weakest groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1530	The representative, Rudihagen, expressed his dissatisfaction with everything in the budget. I would like to be allowed to follow up on two points and hear if the joy is great in those areas. The representative comes from a country where the tourism industry, closely linked to Alpine installations, is an important economic activity. That's the way it is in Buskerud, which I represent. Hemsedal e.g. is the second largest tourist magnet in the country and therefore tourism is very important for the municipality. Does Rudihagen believe that the Workers' Party's proposal to impose VAT on tourism and alpine facilities was tourist friendly and positively entrepreneurial? Or is the representative Rudihagen happy that the Christian People's Party and the other two central parties got the government away from this proposal? The second point is about the voluntary organisations. For the Christian People's Party, voluntary organisations in Norway are important actors in creating an inclusive and warmer society. It is therefore important to stimulate this work with government grants. For each of the heads that we invest, we're going to get a bet for many more heads back. When, in its draft budget, the Labour Party cut part of the appropriations for the vast majority of NGOs in Freedom-Norway, there was clearly a signal of a downturn in this work. Or does Rudi-hagen believe that substantially reduced appropriations express the Workers' Party's positive attitude to and valuation of the voluntary sector? Or, asked out of the way that Rudihagen himself formulated: is Rudihagen happy that the Christian People's Party and the other central parties have improved the budget at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1541	In the case of VAT, it has been done in the past that it is appropriate to extend the VAT base to services. As far as I know, it's an arrangement that the center part, when they were put in the government position, was about to advance. In fact, when it comes to the exceptions that are currently in place, I said in my main post that part of the travel life could certainly tolerate VAT, at least the more professional travel industry. But when, on the other hand, the more holiday- and leisure-based travel business in the districts, which has a marginal economy, and which all impact assessments show is quite vulnerable, I am glad that we found advice to exempt her from VAT. This is important because the districts are looking for new business development. There is a decline in many areas. In agriculture, it is utopian to believe that one can have more annual work and employment in the future. But it turns out that within travel life there is a great potential for growth. Therefore, I am pleased that advice was found to exempt travel business, ski lifts and experience related to travel business for VAT. When it comes to the budget, otherwise, it is provided for a good strengthening of the cultural side, which benefits children and young people to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1550	Rudihagen said he was pleased that the government had not got through everything in its draft budget. So late in the evening of a financial debate, the body language is a little bit difficult to interpret in terms of expressing joy and sorrow here, it's getting pretty monotonous. In the draft budget available from the Government, on which I understand that the Workers' Party has been involved, there is an allocation of 160 million. kr in share capital to fill out IT Fornebu. Rudihagen was one of the builders and the main architects and – one may say – one half of Knoll and the Tott couple who kept it going for a few years in the nutrition committee on this matter. He said in his speech that it was important that one should contribute to the community through the tax increases that had come. In the budget proposal available, the Government itself describes some uncertainties related to the fact that a discount of 5 pst was granted. in the award of the land to Fred. Olsen and his co-conspirators. The Municipality of Oslo has a lot of land that they are selling, and it indicates that they can actually get significantly more than what was the fare for the property of the country and for which it was sold. The working party would not light this out for sale, but would stick it in the hand on a few predetermined ones. If it now turns out that this sale brings in significantly more money than the fare was – which all indicates – is it natural for Rudihagen, for the Workers' Party and the Government, to take an initiative to look at who is going to have this money? Are they to be put in the pockets of the private investors out there, or are they to go to the community box that was so hot and touching, so that the weakest groups can have a greater share of the total cake? There are, after all, dozens of them – not to say hundreds – millions of them in the underprice for which this plot may now turn out to be sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1559	The good representative Gabrielsen does not forget our fighters in the nutrition committee and will continue with some fights, I understand. What happened to Fornebu was that the area was assigned to an IT and knowledge centre. The leaders were already from the government, even though we thought that there should be stronger leadership than what the government originally provided. When someone was going to buy this, it had to be either at the rate or on the open market. When there were special stakeholders, ESA had to enter and approve the fare and purchase on the basis of the principle of competition. As far as I know, there are certain problems in getting the sale approved, and therefore the final disposal of IT Fornebu Eiendom has been postponed until now. ESA has not approved the fare, and we're counting that a process has been started that will go on in the normal way. For the time being, as far as I have been informed, the terminal building and other areas outside where I rented out to IT Fornebu, so that a process of getting a completely necessary IT and knowledge centre for this country should not be delayed. What the outcome of ESA's treatment of this will finally be, I'm not sure, and I don't think the representative Gabrielsen can say, much less how one could possibly use the extra money that had to come out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1568	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1571	«Friendly Norway won the budget» writes Our Country November 20. In the same article, we can read on: ‘The agreement between the Ap and Centre turned non-governmental organisations from losers to winners in the battle for the budget crowns.’ The article in our country describes the reality with great precision. It is not the large billions that are needed to save the voluntary sector. Hardly any other place makes us too little. Some extra million to include: environmental organisations, to organisations carrying out different social work, to family and gender organisations, to children's and youth organisations and to the Rescue Company have done night to day for what we call the third sector. This flora of organizations, driven and held up by idealism, commitment and persuasion, represents and carries out an effort that is not only impressive but is in fact irreplaceable. Therefore, it is important that we also provide the prudent financial assistance needed to keep up this effort. In the Christian People's Party and in the Centre Party or else we are glad that through the budgetary agreement we managed to reverse the situation from minus to plus for the third sector. There may be temptations with yet another quote, now from PIL Current from November 21. There is adm. Director Per Terje Vold etc.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Once again, the Stortinget, as a decision-making body, has provided a sound basis for a sensible industrial policy. It calls for recognition of the political environment.’.» The background for the appointment is that the Christian People's Party and the other two central parties managed to push back the proposal on the electricity tax for the process industry and get an impact on halving the sulphur tax for the industry. Without these two grips, it would have been desperationous for several of the heavy corner stone companies around our country. In the Christian People's Party, we are really concerned about securing business framework conditions that can allow growth and development. Therefore, it was crucial that we re-apply the proposal for the general cyclical charge of 1.5 p.m.. and ensure that the split model was not further deteriorated. It is easy for most compulsorily non-rich people to be tax-rejected, but practical workers who are genuinely concerned with securing jobs, activity and development. We are reasonably calm in view of the fact that the budgetary agreement will provide for a fairer tax system until next year, reducing the difference between the rate of return on capital and the rate of tax on wages and salaries, and making it easier for the active owners of small and medium-sized enterprises to take care of the divisional model. The tax reform mentioned shall be based on the following principle: a fairer distribution of neutrality between different forms of investment, financing and business; effective taxation of capital income; convergence between capital and labour taxation so that the sharing model can be eliminated from the temporary exchange tax upon transition to the new tax system for 2002; In the case of short-term construction charges, which have as their main objective the reduction of the pressure in the construction sector and the reduction in the prices of new dwellings, we see that this charge can lead to some unintended effects. So we'll follow closely when it comes to the department's design of the device at this charge, so that it becomes as accurate as possible to the head. Finally, I would like to stress that a plural comment from the Centre and the Working Party focuses on the fact that the crisis in the petroleum-related supplier industry is still not over. In order to ensure the loss of high skills in this sector and by maintaining both activity and jobs, this multiplicity focuses on the package of measures for this sector for the current year and calls on the Government to evaluate its follow-up in 2001. These are measures that have a great deal to say both for the country as a whole in terms of high technological competence and the national value creation that the industry represents, and also for the employment in the districts that it owes, especially in the West and in the Trøndelag coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1615	Norway is a rich country, and today we spend more of our wealth on ourselves than ever — both through public and private consumption. Never have we had a better opportunity for it than now, so we're going to do the unsolved tasks in our own society in an active and committed way. But there are limits to how much we can increase our own well-being and happiness by spending money on ourselves. Poverty, suffering and distress beyond our own borders require that we present ourselves to others. We have never had better conditions to provide effective assistance. So we don't have an alternative to increasing our efforts. We do it to reduce poverty, to give the world's children a better future. But we also do it for our own propriety, to be able to see our own children in their eyes and answer when they ask, all of this you knew about, what did you do? This is why the Government proposes next year to increase development aid by DKK 1.5 billion – something over 14pst. increase – and therefore I am pleased that budgetary cooperation with the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left makes it possible to strengthen the fight against poverty. There is a major difference in Norwegian policy: between those parties that will increase their efforts for international solidarity and those who will weaken it. The Progress Party will cut long-term state aid and invest in random private contributions. This is not just out of international solidarity work; it is adding weight to the burden on poor countries. There is today a strong need to improve the coordination of assistance. Predictability, long-term commitment and ownership assurance on the recipient side are essential to provide the basis for sustainable development and not to be random bluffs. Right will also dramatically cut the aid on the grounds that we're going to streamline and get more out of the heads that we're giving. Yes, we must make aid more effective. Norway is among the drivers of this, just to reach more people and to ensure that more children are vaccinated, given schooling, jobs and a decent life. However, in order to achieve as much as possible, we need to streamline and increase assistance – do not cut it. An aid budget of just over NOK 12.3 billion places great demands on the Government and on our partners. We need to have ways of working to ensure the quality of our work. That's why we're adding, among other things. greater emphasis on cooperation with the UN – with organisations where developing countries themselves participate and can influence decisions themselves, and where we coordinate donor efforts. A key task is to combat poverty by strengthening the participation of developing countries in the international economy. That is why we must strengthen the economies of the developing countries and improve market access for their products. That is why we need to continue the strong commitment to debt. And that is why we need to make stricter demands on our partners. Corruption is inefficient resource use and affects the poorest. Good governance is a key to effective assistance, business development and poverty reduction. Assistance shall support the country’s own capacity to reduce poverty and secure development. Development is to bet on the children: We will contribute to better health and education for the world's poor children. We're betting on girls' education. That's the best investment you can imagine. We want to participate in an international promise to ensure that all children are vaccinated. The HIV/AIDS epidemic affects Africa in an unfathomable way. AIDS has become a development disaster in many countries. We are therefore actively involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS. With more targeted and targeted assistance, we can contribute over time to making assistance redundant. That's our long-term goal. The instrument is the construction of capacity and competence. With its dramatic proposal and the reasons for the proposal, the Progress Party rejects the assistance to provide a basis for long-term development. It is a recipe for continued poverty, distress and abstinence, social unrest and conflict. We have a moral responsibility to reduce poverty. It's also in our own interest to do that. That is why we are increasing aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1670	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1673	The Council of State said in its speech that it was important to provide effective assistance and that effective assistance was provided by Norway. How, then, is it that more and more reports, written by people who have gone into and examined the situation, investigate what the means of assistance actually do, and how they benefit the people of the poor countries, just show that the way in which assistance is mainly provided by the Norwegian side, does not work, is not targeted and absolutely does not benefit the poor part of the population? In this respect, it must be an important task for the Council of State to contribute to the effectiveness and effectiveness of the assistance actually provided. Therefore, I do not understand how the Council of State can stand here and claim that Norway provides effective assistance. I agree that a vaccination programme is important, because it is targeted, it works, and it helps. But what I don't understand is how the state council can stand here and claim that the Progress Party says no to assistance that creates a basis for long-term development. Aid policy in Norway has been the same for many, many years – the only thing you have discussed is the size of it – and it has thus proved not to be an effective instrument. Earlier in the debate, I asked Parliamentary leader Hill-Marta Solberg why the Workers' Party had not intervened to see other ways of lifting the developing countries out of their poverty, among others. by building customs barriers, including: by contributing to free trade, so that the goods produced by these countries can be sold to rich industrialised countries. Norway also says no, because we suddenly get completely different special interests to care for. I would like to know what the Workers' Party is actually working on, because Hill-Marta Solberg actually said that something was going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1682	Siv Jensen says that Norwegian assistance does not work, and that there are a lot of reviews of Norwegian assistance that show that it does not work. That's actually not right. Norwegian assistance has been evaluated by a number of different organisations, including the World Bank and the OECD, and has received good, very good, shots. There is a greater impact of Norwegian assistance than the average of assistance from the OECD area – significantly greater. At the same time, I fully agree that we need to work to get even more out of every aid crown. We regard this as a very important area. That is why we also need to ensure that efforts are better coordinated with our partners. That is one of the reasons why we want to increase assistance through the multilateral channels. We think it's a very effective way to provide assistance. We've been the drivers of reforming the UN system over the last decade and so on. We have implemented a number of reforms, and very many of the organisations that we have worked actively to reform are today completely different instruments and better than they were. It is nice that the Progress Party also welcomes the vaccination programme. I think it's a great opportunity to just have all the kids in the world vaccinated. It's also very interesting, because there's a whole new way of working together, where multilateral organisations, bilateral donors and private individuals come together in a common promise. With regard to the wish to 'trade not AIDS', to better integrate developing countries into world trade, I also stressed in my speech that it is very important. This means that we – and that is the Labour Party’s policy – must look at our own trade barriers in the areas where they remain, in particular in relation to the least developed countries, and we must promote the interests of the poorest countries, including the poorest countries. through the WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1695	I agree with the Minister for Development that aid must now be increased and not reduced. It is nitrist to read both the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right in this way. In the middle of a financial debate, it's important to stop and just turn your eyes away from ourselves and see the world around us. Then we see a world screaming for justice and reconciliation, and it is so far that these cries from the very poorest reach us today. The Christian People's Party believes that we have a moral imperative to fight poverty and secure our fellow human beings the right to a worthy life. This is our greatest challenge and our responsibility not only as politicians, but as fellow humans. It is gratifying that we have got a point in the budget agreement with the Workers' Party where we ask the Government to set up a development fund that can be used for specific aid purposes in poor developing countries. I have also read that the Minister for Development takes a positive view of this and will help make it a reality. That's good. It is a well-known case that for the Christian People's Party, the voluntary organisations are also important in assisting. These organisations are often specialists in their fields, and they are ‘professional aid actors achieving measurable positive results of their efforts’, as stated in the Proposition. Many people have long experience, including: from Africa, with grassroots projects, and I see from the budget that aid to Africa has just decreased. I would then ask the Minister for Development to get her assessment of the position of non-governmental organisations now in a globalised world where non-governmental organisations have more influence. "Don't decrease, but increase," said the Minister for Development. Can non-governmental organisations get more of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1706	Yes, the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party agree on the core issues in this area, also that it is a moral responsibility to increase assistance to those who need it the most. In the case of the specific proposals, for example: Of course, the proposal for a resolution fund will now begin to examine this in line with the budgetary agreement, so we will come back to that. With regard to the role of voluntary organisations, it is beyond doubt that they have played and play a very important role in Norwegian aid. We are probably one of the countries most channelling assistance through voluntary organisations. We are lucky to have good professional Norwegians and in particular some international non-governmental organisations to channel assistance through. We see that there is a need now to review the experience with the use of such organisations over many, many years, to see if we can use this channel even more effectively. And that's something that I'll come back to in my presentation to spring. As for the amounts going to non-governmental organisations, I think we need to wait until the end of the budget year to get a full assessment of them. I expect the voluntary organisations to also increasingly cooperate with the UN system, so that there will be a new partner for these organisations. And here Norwegian organisations have a lot to contribute. In the case of Africa, the appropriations allocated to Africa are not reduced by this budget. We assume – there will also be an accounting question – that they will increase by perhaps between 200 and 300 million. kr due to the increase now through the various UN organisations. It's an uncertain estimate, but it's an increase in Africa.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1719	The Minister for Aid said in his speech that it is important to enable the poor countries to cope. The Minister of Assistance is probably aware that the EU is now planning to open its markets further to imports from developing countries and that they are in favour of removing customs and quota restrictions at all, as close as to arms, from the least developed countries, those referred to as the MUL countries. A rich country such as Norway, which aims to be at the forefront of aid, must also be at the forefront of its participation in the international market economy. Free trade is at least as important for effective poverty reduction as traditional assistance. In this regard, I have two questions for the Council of State. Question 1: Does the Government support the EU's decision on the free movement of goods from the MUL countries? Question 2: Does the Government intend to go further by possibly extending the tariff preference arrangements to developing countries in addition to the MUL countries and more types of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1728	We are, as I have also said before, very concerned about strengthening the opportunities of developing countries to participate in the international economy. It is this way that aid will always be a very limited part of the development funding needed in developing countries. This is something we will be able to discuss in full at next year's Conference on Development Financing under the auspices of the United Nations. Therefore, international trade is very important. With regard to the EU proposal, which they have launched under the slogan ‘Everything but Arms’, we think this is a very interesting proposal. We're studying this more closely now, and we're basically thinking that this is an important proposal. With regard to the potential of developing countries to increase their trade, it is imperative that they have access to the markets of developed countries. But that's not enough. That is why the technical assistance we provide for developing countries to be able to produce goods for export and also bring them to the markets is of importance in this context. In the new, recently adopted programme of the Labour Party, we have some good and ambitious wording on precisely this by giving developing countries, and in particular the poorest, greater access to our own markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1739	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1742	We've got a budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Centre that provides the time for tax increases for ordinary businesses and families. We get that two years after the center produced the second largest tax increase in time and the Workers' Party said that these were too strong tax increases for the companies, and would cooperate with the Right to prevent the storm. That's it. But as so often before, what's wrong is when others suggest it, is right when only the Workers' Party gets to propose it itself. And not only that: a total of DKK 10 billion in unpaid tax bills is passed on to next year because half of the VAT reduction is not covered, and the entire removal of the investment tax in 2002 is passed on as an unpaid bill with unknown recipient. The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre shows us that if one tax falls away, it is financed only by a new one. And if a new expenditure is to be financed, it rarely happens by cutting in other lower priority areas, but rather by new fees, tax or tax increases. The budget is bare for the modernisation of the public sector – Stoltenberg’s previous slogan. And the housing tax, which was to be removed in the last election campaign, is now significantly increased for most people. Creativity, however, is impressive. Even the Justice budget has become, in this respect, a budget for fees rather than a budget to combat crime by investing in the police, courts and prison system. The budget for the justice sector is at rest on the ground or with a microscopic 2.7 million. kr i plus. This means that while the budgetary agreement increases the fees of defence lawyers by 31 million. kr, which is a reasonable enough measure, is financed throughout this total over a pre-declared judicial budget by a sharp increase in the passport fee for ordinary people, which the police have to impose. This seems to be the new task of the police: to be tax levieds on politicians who are unable to make real priorities in their budgets. To charge public services far beyond the cost of these services is, in the Right’s view, immoral. And when the police have to carry out such tasks, the reputation and credibility of the police within the population is weakened, and it's just as serious. We've seen it before: policemen in the patrol are being sent out to check the number of square meters in the Brustad arches, while people are not being helped by burglaries. We have got new boat records that are forced downwards on the leisure people, and the police and customs are outsourced to fine those who do not have the power to follow in a detailed, bureaucratic, expensive and unnecessary code. And now the police are to be used to collect even higher passport fees! The increase is 30 million. NOK, and only 17 of these millions are left to the police themselves to fight crime. Last Friday, Stortinget held a debate on the Riksrevision's evaluation of the police and officers' seat. There it was stressed that the police would do the most important thing first. It was Friday morning. On Friday morning, it was decided that the police and the Tollvessen should impose fines for a breach of a completely unnecessary boat registration law. Now it is Monday, and the role of the police as tax collectors for increased passport fees is the largest single amount in the conciliation of the budget partners in the justice sector, with an annual impact of about 10 %. 32 million. kr. This shows that the Workers' Party and Centre do not have the power to do the most important thing first. They do not have the power to provide the police with an operating budget that reduces the processing time and increases the response time. They don't have the power to get away from prison queues by duplicating enough cells, building new departments for particularly demanding inmates, or training enough prison officers to mannify all departments. And they don't have the power to bring down the queues in the courts by increasing the police's prosecution capacity by hiring more police lawyers. In the right, we can do all of this within our budget – without tax increases. The Labour Party and the Centre have the power to increase taxes, taxes and charges in most sectors. That is why this budget marks the current distinction in Norwegian policy and shows for the second consecutive year that the centre should not be considered as an independent alternative to the current government in the election campaign we are about to enter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1757	In the debate so far, we have come to know that in the budgetary agreement there was a movement of some money, and who is to be credited or blamed for this. In any case, it will necessarily have to be established that the political centre of gravity of today's political reality lies between the centre and the Workers' Party, and it's not a bad center of gravity when we see which areas are put in focus and how the priorities are done. Assistance policy is a good example of the common thinking that is taking place between these parties. The aid budget has continued in such a way that our activity towards the world's poor countries is maintained at a high level. It is also set at a larger amount than previously targeted at Russia and the Baltic countries. That's good, and it's necessary. Developments in Russia are crucial for the longer-term development we can expect with some realism in much of what was once the Soviet Union. Without progress towards stability and growth in Russia, millions of people in our neighbourhoods, in the Caucasus and in parts of Asia, will live in unfathomable poverty for many years to come. These areas and those countries have a high level of education, a high level of scientific competence and a generally high level of knowledge. The problem is that so far they have not mastered a gigantic process of conversion. The main reason for this is the lack of experience and knowledge of how civil structures function in a society based on democracy, co-influence, insight and transparency. This is not so strange after generations have lived under totalitarian rule, with censorship, lack of legal certainty, fear and oppression. Now we should not overestimate the role of a small country that Norway can play in these areas. The United States and the EU will necessarily have the key roles, but we should not underestimate our ability to contribute to this development. That a rich country such as Norway contributes as actively and as strongly as we do in those countries that are now trying to get out of poverty and misery should allow everyone in this room to join. Surprisingly, this is not the case. The progress party wants to dramatically reduce this activity. I do not know the reasons for this fully, but the arguments I am familiar with show that you are not satisfied with how the development aid is used. I think that's okay. There are certainly many things that could have been done differently, perhaps even better. You can discuss that. But from there to say that we don't want to be in this, that's a mess. If any party has signaled the need for people and nations to be on their own, it is the Progress Party. As a result, it becomes strange when they adopt their attitude towards the development budget and development aid. The fact that people and countries have to stand on their own is what this is all about – helping people and states to cope with themselves. When debt is dwindled, there is little opportunity to process its own products, develop its infrastructure, train its population, or establish stable civil structures, which some of these countries have, it is necessary to provide assistance and help to get on the ground. This is what the aid budget is all about. We should agree on this, and then we can discuss method, priorities, pace and expectations. This is a task we could usefully lift a little bit out of the party-political, strategic discussion, and instead recognize the need for us all to pull this stuff together. In the longer term, this effort will also be of great importance to ourselves, with new trading partners, extended cultural exchanges, opportunities for these countries to contribute to environmental work, etc. Moreover, we are all aware that as long as there is great poverty in parts of the world and as many differences as we have today, security for all of us is also weakened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-27-2.ana.ud125e1772	The President will now propose that today's meeting be cancelled, and that the discussion of the issues on today's map continue at tomorrow's meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
