ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e27	The representatives of Kenneth Svendsen, Marit Tingelstad, Torstein Rudihagen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Astrid Marie Nistad, Ola T. Lånke and Kjellaug Nakkim, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the state of Hedmark: Helge Bjørnsen For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bernt Hågensen For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e68	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e73	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e78	Kjell Engebertsen and Aud Blattmann are proposed as chairmen. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Aud Blattmann are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e83	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself on a targeted and independent study on whether gas power plants in Norway lead to a reduction or an increase in CO2 emissions in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e88	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e109	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: – Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland, – Councillor Grete Knudsen, – Councillor of State Jørgen Kosmo, The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – So let's start with the first main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e124	I'll be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Industry. Yesterday and so far in today's Evening Post, we see that the IT Fornebu bet is referred to as a abdominal landing. Now it's not going to be that bad, but we'll see now. But my question to the Council of State is about the need for state capital in this. It is such that this centre, which would become a European spearhead, would be 600 deches. Now it turns out that you can only get hold of approx. 300 dean, because it was not won by using state control plans and almost expropriation from the Stockholm pulpit. According to Eikeland in IT Fornebu, investment willingness is still very high among stakeholders. My question to the Council of State Knudsen is: Is her investment ambition equal, i.e. if you need the 165 million. kr proposed for this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e133	This is a matter that Stortinget has decided on, and I have not been involved in this part of the matter in my time as Minister of Industry. It was well known when the issue was discussed in Stortinget that there were other players who owned plots, respectively in Bærum and Oslo, and that it would be quite natural in case you wanted more land, you had to take it up with the players who actually owned the plots.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e138	I feel the answer so that the government still believes that it should be granted and sent over a check of 165 million. kr to expand the share capital in the first half of next year, as if the area was twice as large as it now appears. I take note of that. When this matter was up on 7 March last year, the Stortinget made a decision, namely that the Government in connection with the budget proposal, St.prp. No 1, would come back with a full explanation of the progress in this case. I have not been able to find that statement in the budget proposal. My first question is, Is it mentioned, and where? Secondly, the Council of State feels that there is less need for this, now that the Workers' Party itself is sitting in the government offices and is not sitting in the opposition and is formulating Roman number decisions and asking for information. What is the reason for this possible change in attitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e145	I perceive that the Storting made its decisions on the very assumption that there were other actors who also owned land, and that this had to happen in that way that they had a dialogue. If you got there, you got used to it, if you weren't quite aware that other players could get in. In this way I assume that the Storting was clear with the situation when the decisions were taken. The Storting also made a decision that it was not the Ministry of Economic Affairs that should have the primary responsibility, but that it should be in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and, in the case of land, at least as far as the State is concerned, it should be a responsibility of the Ministry of Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e152	There will be follow-up questions – Leif Helge Kongshaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e155	With regard to the debate on IT fornebu, of which we have had several in Stortinget, it was made a big point – in order for the vision for IT fornebu to be as good as possible and this would be an appropriate instrument for Norwegian IT development – that the areas consisted of approximately. 600 objectives. The previous government thought that approx. 300 measures were large enough space to get a good center for IT fornebu. Now it turns out that it still becomes the size of the area that the previous government went into and thought was large enough. Does the Minister of Industry now think that the area will still be sufficient to satisfy the vision of the Workers' Party, with the support of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e160	I assume that when the Storting made its decision, one was well aware that there were plots here that were actually owned by others, and that a large number of them could not of course be over-tested, nor could they be over-tested. There have been several actors here, and it is clear that IT Fornebu has not reached the bidding round for the allocation of these plots.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e166	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e169	The question of IT Fornebu is a very special matter, because it is trodden through in the Storting against the recommendation of all professional communities by two parties who also tried out the recommendation of the previous government. In this way, the matter is extremely special. What has now come to light also shows that this centre will not get the size or – let me say – the weight that the Investor Forum has always said this should have. The state is now heavy inside this project, and the danger of this becoming a flop, getting bigger and bigger. The state investment does not pay off, and thus now there is Investor Forum with the ownership and the right of disposal of the State property located there, which has been characterised as an internal file in the housing market. My point is: If it turns out – as you have always feared – that this is not a large IT centre, but simply a housing speculation, will the government reconsider its commitment, and will the government consider alternative use of Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e176	I would like to repeat again that the Storting cannot try out who properties should go to when there are other owners. It was known from the very beginning that both the municipality of Bærum and the municipality of Oslo had interests in this area. As I now see the industrial development in this area, Telenor has a great commitment to the area we're talking about, and IT Fornebu is also working to get more industrial interests involved there. After what I have of information — it may, of course, be insufficient — there is a great commitment among industrial developers to participate in IT Fornebu.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e181	Odd Roger Enoksen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e184	The Minister of Industry has now given a remarkable response, given that the Workers' Party was almost willing to take on the government crisis, that the proposal for IT centres presented by the central government was not visionary enough, or ‘large’ enough. It was first and foremost the area that was then the theme, with Grete Knudsen as one of the tone-provoking drivers in the Workers' Party to get to a maximum IT centre. Therefore, my question is short and good: What has the government planned to do to realize the large IT centre as it was so imperative for the Workers' Party to do in our time that we were willing to face a government crisis that the area would be 600 dean rather than 300, for which the central government had arranged?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e189	I cannot answer anything other than that it is clear that it is not possible to oversee whom the municipality of Oslo, or other municipalities, should sell to, and that it was also the prerequisites when the Stortinget discussed the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e194	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e197	I think I have to ask Kosmo a question about Aetat. The Kosmo Council of State is at work to renew and reorganize the public sector, and it is one of the new, important issues of the Royal Norwegian Workers' Party. Kosmo has already started – he has already been dismissed by the Head of State Building, and we also see that Aetat's leader has gone. But my question to Cosmo is about the concrete follow-up work in the big, important case of principle we have around Aetat. Will the Kosmo Council of State now go down to the state level to see if the figures in the Veritas report are adequate for all states, and will the Kosmo Council of State consider in the wake of this to open up so that private people can also pass on work to people who are in a difficult situation and who need a permanent job?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e204	I sincerely hope that the renewal of the public sector will not only be a project for the Government, but also a project for the Stortinget. I think it's crucial. If we are to be able to deliver the expectations of the population to the level of service we are to offer, the whole political environment must engage in the renewal of public activities. In this work, among other things, the reversal of the trend of increased sick leave, increased exclusion from the labour market and increased unemployability is one of the very important and heavy elements. In this work, the labour market seat must be entirely central. It'll be one of the tools we have to use to get people to work. That is why I want to make sure that, in the light of the events that we have now seen, and the report that Veritas has made, during this year, we carry out a full review around the district work offices and county work offices, first to investigate how what has been revealed could happen, and then carry out a one-month check to see if this has ended. I assume that the error registration ended already on Monday, but we want to do a back-up check. So we have appointed the Chief Executive Officer of Statskonsult, Blaalid, as temporary head of the labour market seat, and he will have a few months to lay the foundation for further development of the labour market seat, which is to be made conditionally by a new director, when the deadline for application is up and we have been appointed to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e213	It's reassuring that the Council of States will also go in and look at this, because we know that there are variations here. But he did not answer the important question, namely this: When the goal of Kosmo and the government is to get something done with regard to sick leave, disability and people who go long-term sick, and also do a job for the unemployed, isn't it time for someone more than we are allowed to do today to open up so that even private people can do part of the important job of giving people a steady job? Is this also to be clarified at the National Labour Party meeting? Does the Council of State not have a view of this itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e220	The size has just — and this year — decided to widen the liberalisation of both intermediary activities and the hiring and hiring of labour. This has given us a fairly liberal and open market for temporary employment services. Furthermore, the labour market will be central to the dissemination of work. And the law that Stortinget has done is that it is not allowed to make any payments to convey work. It'll be pretty solid. I'm dealing with that, so I'm not going to make any new proposal that it should be allowed to liberalize in such a way that you have to pay to convey work. I can't see that it can help those who need the most help in such a situation. In addition, we will facilitate as many people as possible to obtain work through their own activities, with access to the network of the labour market parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e228	There will be follow-up questions – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e231	I find it strange that the Council of State is looking at the defensive when it comes to this with mediation. I believe that the Council of State cannot now envisage freeing ordinary employment services from Aetat and letting Aetat focus on the dissemination of work to the disabled, disabled and those to whom it is not so easy to distribute work in the private sector. I also want to refer to Aetat's placement of temporary workers. That's where Aetat has introduced the payment service. So my question is: is it so to understand that the Government is now completely locked down when it comes to using private employment services – that they can take over the communication that goes on the ordinary level, and that Aetat can then concentrate on the provision of employment to professionals?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e238	I believe that the decision taken by the Stortinget, which is that you should not have the opportunity to get paid for the provision of labour, is a correct decision, and the decision taken by the Stortinget is firm. Thus, there should be no market for private operators in this area, because as long as nothing can be paid, there is no market either. I believe that the best guarantee that we will have an apparatus that can ensure that those groups that need the most resources, in order to have a job provided, will have a chance in this labour market, that it will still be prohibited by law to pay for the provision of labour. The representative is aware and knows very well that in terms of rental, rental and temporary employment, the market in Norway has been significantly liberalised in recent years. And we're going to follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e245	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e248	The serious thing about the fraud in Aetat is not that it is being cheated in a service situation, it is serious enough, but this is therefore an administrative seat, as in particular. are set to manage applications from companies competing with Aetat itself. This blatant example of inconsistency was pointed out both by the Competition Authority, which dismissed it, and by the Blaalid Committee, which dismissed it, when the case was dealt with. The government and the majority of the population, including the current government party, did not follow this advice. I see that you have now constituted Mr. Blaalid as Director of Aetat. This means that the problems are now recognised and will follow Mr. Blaalid's advice also applies in other areas where he has professional advice, including: on the issue of separation of management, business and services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e255	As the Storting has been briefed on through the budget proposal, business and ordinary management work have been separated internally in the labour market seat by establishing the Aetat Enterprise, which is responsible for the payment services. There is a briefing given to the Stortinge in relation to the budget, because the Stortinge has asked to be briefed so that they can decide on the final organisation. That document is in this house. In addition, Blaalid is engaged in this job because he is an excellent manager, has a good overview and has knowledge of government. I feel confident that we have got the right person to clean up what I fully agree with the representative Foss in is completely unacceptable – cheats with figures within a state agency. This is not supposed to happen. Now we have to create this as such a clear example that it never repeats itself, neither in Aetat, nor in any other level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e262	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e265	What has been revealed in the Veritas report in relation to Aetat is very serious, and the minister himself uses the term ‘jux’. It's serious for several reasons. One is that you give the impression of conveying jobs that you have not communicated at all. But in the shadow of it, Aetat is seen not to have invested at all in the dissemination of work on the most difficult groups, namely the long-term unemployed, perhaps especially the elderly, as well as the disabled, people with disabilities – people who had needed much more resources and prioritised higher in order to get back to work. This reveals that there is a need for a significant degree of reorganisation of both Aetat and their cooperation with other institutions, and I am thinking in particular of the social security system and social affairs. Does the Council of State, in the wake of what is now being revealed, see the need for a reorganization of cooperation between Aetate, the social security system and the social security system in order to be able to communicate work to those to whom it is most difficult to communicate, that there is a need to do something about those services in order to bring the problem to life?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e272	First of all, I see the need to reorganise the legislation governing both the social security system and the labour market system. The legislation we have today, largely demand the limitations of people, and then people get compensation if they have too much limited ability to work. I want a system in which both the labour market and the social security system ask about people's ability to function, and then set up schemes and cooperation patterns that allow us to exploit people's ability to function instead of dealing with people's disabilities. When we are reorganised and provided with a new regulatory framework and a new political and administrative way of meeting these challenges, it is necessary to reorganise both the social security offices and the labour market seat in order to meet this major challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e279	Last follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e282	Let me first express praise to the Council of State for having shown the power of action in this situation in which Aetat now came up. I want the Council of State to know that there are several parties engaged in having a strong, efficient and modern Aetat in a more liberalised labour market. But that also means that this is a moment to just modernize Aetat when we are in a situation with a leader change and the organisation needs to be reviewed. Hanisch has taken on an important positive will in her commitment to the need for increased labour migration to Norway. I would like to challenge the Council of State to say something about the need to also adapt Aetat's organisation to take the challenge of bringing labour into Norway because we need it, as the Council of State itself stated in the debate was necessary in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e290	Former labour director Ted Hanisch has not just made good proposals in this area. He has provided a good and modern establishment, which is rusted and prepared to meet new challenges, including: increased labour migration. We will continue to work to establish ourselves so that, in cooperation with other European and non-European labour markets, we have the chance to provide employment in Norway with the necessary labour force. But I do not intend to go as far as the Labour Market Act proposed, that they should take over the responsibility of the foreign agencies today to deal with these applications. I think it's important that we keep this clear distinction. But it is quite obvious that in the future too, the labour market will have to focus on addressing this major challenge, recruiting people from abroad to fill vacancies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e295	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e298	It is, of course, important to follow up all the commitments made by the EEA Agreement, but sometimes it seems that the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are more in a hurry to incorporate problematic EU directives into Norwegian legislation than is good. On 20 October, we read in Today's Business that there is considerable support for the Norwegian views on the Gas Directive. Yesterday it was announced that the German Government had rejected the patent directive, among others. in the light of the ethical concerns raised by the central government for its assessment of this Directive. Now, the Central Government of the Workers' Party has decided to accept the Patent Directive, and I find that strange, but my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What is the status of the Government's work on the Patent Directive now, and what will the Government do to ensure a better impact on the Norwegian views in its negotiations with the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e305	I have briefed the EEA Committee on this. As far as the Gas Directive is concerned, we are now working on the basis of the platform on which I believe there was a broad consensus in the Stortinget, namely to implement that directive with a certain transitional period. In the case of the Patent Directive, it is not correct that it has been decided to accept that Directive. What has been adopted is that we continue to support the intervention taken by the Netherlands in connection with this directive before the European Court of Justice, such as: is in the process of clarifying whether this Directive complies with the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. And then we have said that if the European Court of Justice finds that this is not the case, the situation will be that the directive is likely to fall away and that a new one needs to be developed. Then the matter is on a completely new track. If the European Court of Justice finds that such is the case, that is, that the Directive can be implemented in accordance with the Biodiversity Convention, then we want it to be implemented in Norwegian legislation. But we're waiting for this. There are also several other countries, to which Steensnæs referred, who want to clarify this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e314	There are many EU countries that have not now implemented the Directive for various reasons, including: the reasons on which the central government also had views. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs not think that the German Government's rejection of the EU Directive has created a new situation? The Minister of Foreign Affairs recently said that the Norwegian Government will await the situation. Would it not be better if the Government had a more active approach to this and made sure to ally with those countries that now have significant objections to the implementation of this important Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e319	It's like we're playing along with the countries that have the same objections as us. It is not that we reject this directive, but we have objections and we see what we can do about it, and that is what we do. But what I understand is that the Christian People's Party wants Norway to signal already now that we veto this directive, that is. that it is not implemented in the EFTA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. But if we do that, we'll sit on the sidelines of the whole debate. We want to work with those countries that have the same objections as us to see if it can be implemented in relation to the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e324	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e327	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In a comment on the daily newspaper yesterday, the head of the European Environment Agency – the EU response to State pollution monitoring – said the following: ‘I cannot see that it is possible to claim that Norwegian gas power plants will lead to lower total greenhouse gas emissions in Europe.’ The Minister of Foreign Affairs is not exactly known for being a major critic of what comes from EU views, so I would like to have the Foreign Minister’s comment on that claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e339	Interestingly, the leader of the Central Party is now using the EU to argue for a case here nationally. But let me say it so that I perceive this as a sentiment. I do not know exactly what he is based on in this regard. We know that there is strife and disagreement about it. The government is of the opinion that global emissions of CO2 will be reduced if we can use gas to produce electricity, such as gas. then can be sold to Europe. I believe that it is quite obvious, but I note that there is a disagreement about that. And when one in the EU is of the opinion that the Center Party is, we get to take it for what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e344	I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers it appropriate to disagree with the views of the European Union where it serves the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But this case has a history. It started with the current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in opposition saying that the decision to build gas power plants in Norway was certainly in line with the requirements of the pollution law. The Minister for the Environment said a week and a half ago that it was most likely in line with the requirements of the pollution law. And so now the head of the European Environment Agency claims that this is probably, most likely, contrary to the pollution law. The whole intention and the whole argument of the Workers' Party for building gas power plants is that global emissions will decrease, and therefore the pollution law can be used. So now it's going to be the opposite. It is interesting to hear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not have knowledge of what is underlying the arguments put forward by the EU now. And then my follow-up question is: what does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend to do to gain insight into the EU's argument, and will it be submitted to the Stortinget somehow?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e353	I have such information, but I find that there are different opinions, and you choose to draw different conclusions from the material that is available. But since we are talking about the EU, I will almost be able to ask a question back: how can it be that Germany has been able to significantly reduce its CO2 emissions? Yes, it is, among other things. because they have received gas from Norway and can close coal-fired works and clean up their industry. So you don't need so much evidence to say exactly what I'm saying now, that the gas to Europe has meant a lot in terms of Europe's ability to reduce pollution. That's how I see it when it comes to the gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e359	President - will I be able to answer the Foreign Minister's questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e364	No, it's not going to give Odd Roger Enoksen a reason for that. But there will be follow-up questions from Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e369	Let me first just say a few things – although I am aware that the President is in its full right – that I think it was something striking that follow-up questions were not allowed after the Foreign Minister’s reply to the Patent Directive, an answer that left many ambiguities. But that's what we get back to in other contexts. So to the gas power case. After all, it was Igland, as Prime Minister, that in his time the gas power issue was to be dealt with under the pollution law. Now, once the Government has converted the emissions permit, we find that one has not let the SFT assess whether this CO2 emission is within the pollution law. The crown argument for the Workers' Party and the Right was that it would lead to reductions in CO2 emissions elsewhere in Europe. Then it was changed to that it was ‘most likely’ that it would lead to reductions. Now the Director of the European Environment Agency says that it will hardly happen, i.e. that it is most likely that this emission will only come to the top of existing emissions. This is not a matter of any kind. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also No. two of the Government: Will the Government help us to obtain an independent investigation into whether this results in CO2 emission reduction or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e376	Just that question I will leave to those who are responsible for it in the government. But I want to say when you push the EU in front of you: let's be a little careful with it and see what might be the background for it. We have based our experience: once gas has been used – and I think Europe should be aware of that – emissions have been significantly reduced as a result. For example, Germany had: had no possibility of reducing their emissions so much if it had not been for the Norwegian gas. I think it's pretty obvious that when you produce electricity using gas, the emissions of CO2 are lower than when you produce electricity using coal-fired plants. That's what we've come up with. Then the political debate can continue on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e383	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e386	Since Jiménez-Beltrán, the head of the European Environment Agency, was guest at the SV conference and his view of Norwegian gas power plants emerged in a debate with me, Siri Bjerke and himself, I think I might be able to clarify a little what kind of argument it is that is now hitting the legs under the Government's argument for gas power plants. The arguments put forward by Jiménez-Beltrán were as follows: there is overproduction of power in the EU area and in Europe. The cheapest force is the old, bad coal power. No gas power could be produced that could in any way compete at price with this power. In no way can it be imagined that Norwegian gas power stations can replace the old coal-fired power stations. It'll just be an offer that comes in the case. What is it that Foreign Minister Jagland is in possession of documentation that can refute this reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e395	I think it is very nice that SV invites the European Union to its meetings. This should continue to clarify such issues as far as possible. I find, as we have assumed, that when you produce electricity from gas, it becomes less CO2 emissions than when you produce it using coal-fired plants. That's what we've come up with. You can put a lot of different reasoning around it. But I don't think you get beyond the fact – as I have also shown before – that once you have used Norwegian gas in Europe, it has provided a significant environmental improvement for Europe. If Europe is of the opinion that the Norwegian gas is no longer needed, it is an interesting signal, but I have not heard such a signal from any team, at least not from the countries that depend on the Norwegian gas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e402	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e405	I have a question for Foreign Minister Jagland. In the state television program «Fire Point» last night, strong claims were made about confidential contact that KGB had with young and leading politicians in the Workers' Party during the Cold War. The current Minister of Foreign Affairs, Thorbjørn Jagland, was given the code name ‘Jurij’ and the current Prime Minister, Jens Stoltenberg, was given the name ‘Steklov’. Some of the Norwegian people became a little worried about the claims made. I am fully aware that it has been said that of course no classified documents were handed over, but that was not what the KGB was looking for! They were looking to get to know Jagland and Stoltenberg, to learn how they thought and how they reacted. My question is, could the Minister of Foreign Affairs imagine giving the Norwegian people and the Storting a statement about these conditions and about what was going on at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e416	It's interesting that this can be recycled again and again in the way that now happens in some media. You could be inclined to ask whether in a legal society you couldn't imagine making this in a slightly different way and looking at the back. Fortunately, we have a free press in this country, which has just done so – over and over again. That's all it is to say about this. If I were to answer for myself, I would just say that for many years I was an international secretary in the Workers' Party. I then had extensive contact with a large number of countries' embassies, the American, the British, the French and the Soviet, just to do what Carl I. Hagen said: let the rest of the world get a glimpse of how the Workers' Party thought in a number of cases. I think it was very important that the rest of the world got involved, especially in the period that we're talking about here. But I think it's wise to get this case down on the ground. And now when you bring these recycled items into the staging room, I have to say that I'm a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e425	Some of us remember how some in the Workers' Party have done what they could to discredit Norwegian surveillance services, and how some journalists have been looking for Norwegian surveillance services. It would be natural for you, when it's suddenly the other way, to ask some questions. This was during the cold war between the Warsaw and NATO countries. That it was contact officially and formally, is quite okay. But when you meet at the Stortorvet Guestship for confidential conversations, it is that some of the Norwegian people are wondering a little bit. Doesn't Jagland think it could have been okay once and for all to get rid of these writings and these statements that come out from time to time? It would be in the interests of the Workers' Party to sweep away any doubt that during confidential conversations there had been views or reactions that might not have been entirely fortunate during the cold war.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e433	I just notice that the Progress Party is now trying to bring this suspicion also into the staging room. I don't think it's particularly worth it. A lot has been written about these matters. Fortunately, we have a free press in this country that has analyzed these things in a very good way. I have nothing more to say about it. I think it was absolutely necessary that not only the Workers' Party, but also a large number of other parties had the opportunity to inform the embassies of other countries. And I guess it was as important to inform the U.S. Embassy about how we in the Workers' Party thought about things, as it was in relation to the Soviet Embassy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e438	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e441	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This week, former UN humanitarian coordinator in Iraq, Hans von Sponeck, has been in Norway as SV's guest. He has, among other things, challenged Norway to take a clearer view of today’s sanctions against Iraq. The reports on the state of Iraq are depressing reading. Saddam Hussein is still in power, as we know, while the population in the country is experiencing a dramatic fall in standard of living, the mortality among children has increased dramatically and the health and education system is falling to third world standards. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that the sanctions do not work as intended, and will the Government take any initiative to change the sanctions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e450	What is the case here is that the UN Security Council, by means of Resolution 1284, has decided to impose sanctions on Iraq until Iraq complies with the will of the world community to dispose of weapons of mass destruction. Later, these sanctions have also been adjusted to allow Iraq to sell oil to buy food. A while ago, this was also adjusted to the point where there was no thank you for how much oil you could sell to buy food. The relationship is that Iraq has not been willing to cooperate with the UN on this. They didn't want to do this with oil for food. In fact, Saddam Hussein is holding his own people hostage because you're not willing to use the instrument that the UN Security Council has decided they can do. It is quite clear that the civilian population in Iraq is suffering, but it is not, as it is claimed, that if only the sanctions are lifted, the civilian population in Iraq will get much better. What is the problem for Iraq is that there is a dictator there who will not follow the call and demands of the world community, but who cannot be said to have had any very great need to lift his own people up to a higher standard of living. It shows the story, and it also shows the story behind the UN sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e455	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I don't think we disagree with Saddam Hussein. The question also concerns not only the abolition of sanctions but also the modification of sanctions so that they better meet the objective of bringing about political change, while at present they are unilaterally affecting the civilian population. As a member of the Security Council, Norway will have to work on the Sanctions Committee for Iraq. Since the Netherlands, which had the leadership of this committee, is now out of the Security Council, Norway is among those mentioned as being concerned to chair this committee. Leadership in the Committee could give us a better opportunity to influence sanctions policy. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs consider it desirable for Norway to be given the task of chairing the Sanctions Committee for Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e464	I will come to Stortinget and report on Norway's work in the Security Council in mid-November. Until then, we will work on how Norway will address the work of the Security Council and explain it to the Stortinget. So I can't say anything more about the sanctions committee for Iraq. But I want to say, since it was now said that sanctions should be changed, that it was actually done by the UN Security Council by giving Iraq the opportunity to sell oil to buy food, and also lifting the ceiling on how much oil you can sell, but that has not led to Saddam Hussein using this opportunity to buy food and medicine for his own people. So the sanctions have been changed. If there may be a need to change it further in different directions, we might have to look at it, but first we have to see that Saddam Hussein is really interested in using the possibilities he actually has to help his own people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e471	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e474	I allow myself to ask a question to the Kosmo Council of State. In an earlier response to, among other things, the Council of State has: The representative Sponheim commended Director Ted Hanisch for taking the initiative to modernise Aetat and also to leave good ideas behind. In the above-mentioned letter that Ted Hanisch sent to the Council of State earlier this month, where he sighs heavily, to say the public, about how difficult it is to obtain labour from outside, he says, among other things. that both the instructions and routines of the Foreign Directorate and the Police make it very difficult to reach people. So my question is this: will the Council of State take the initiative so that it will be easy for both jobseekers, job changers and educated people to stay in Norway? Does he also agree with Deputy Director Hanisch that although we are Norwegian masters in reorganizing and modernizing, which is the main problem of the Council of State, we need a significant number of jobseekers from outside?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e485	Yeah, that's right. Even if we were to get the Storting on all the proposals that we can imagine to renew, streamline, exploit more of the resources, prevent exclusion from the labour market and get more disability pensioners into work, there will also be a need to recruit labour from abroad. For this reason, we must work together – i.e. the Ministry of Labour and Administration and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which is now responsible for the Directorate of Foreign Affairs – in order to achieve such simple and good procedures that the processing of applications for employment does not take as long as it does within the current system. It has to be fully possible to do that, and we're doing that. But: I don't want to say with a wide pen it's so simple that everyone who studies in Norway will automatically be allowed to be here. Much of the intention of inviting students from developing countries to Norway to study is, of course, that they should qualify so that they can go home and participate in travelling the country from which they come. Then I think that it's too easy to leave the ideology, the way of thinking, which is the basis of such a study. There must be very special conditions to meet, not just our need for labour. An international perspective also needs to be crucial to whether they are going to be or whether they are going to go home.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e492	I assume that the Council of State does not mean to leave what the Government of Bondevik agreed to, namely that students who previously had to go home as a general rule should now be judged individually as a general rule. I take that as a matter of fact, you don't leave. But I allow myself to ask the additional question to the Council of State Grete Knudsen: The Council of State has in a number of contexts submitted a special scheme related to IT expertise. Does she think that we should have such flexible arrangements also for other important professional groups in Norway, both in terms of caring and value-creating tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e499	For that the answer is yes. It has been opened up by Stortinget, both the Justice Committee of ours and the Church, Education and Research Committee in the context of the Research Communication which has also been discussed in the Stortinget. The initiative on the competence card we're working on was a start to get the whole specialist section in place, for which the Storting has opened up through their two committee treatments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e507	It is still Kosmo, the Council of State, to which the main question is addressed. There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Hedstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e512	It is a fact that Norway is currently in need of labour in a number of categories of occupations. We've had a common labour market in the Nordic region since 1954, when Iceland also joined us. It has been almost balanced and a great advantage for all Nordic countries. From 1 January 1994 we got an EEA agreement with a common labour market. While we have had great flexibility in the Nordic labour market, we have not been able to achieve great flexibility within Europe. Here, maybe Ted Hanisch and his staff could have done a better job. Although unemployment is on the way down in Europe, there are actually millions to exploit. Does the Council of State wish to step up efforts in this area through the Labour Market Act in order to increase this flexibility in line with the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e521	We spent many years in the Nordic region developing the market that we see today works so well, and it will also take many years within the EEA before it becomes natural for people, with different cultural backgrounds and different working practices, to move as easily as you can in the Nordic labour market. But it's coming. We need to strengthen the cooperation we have with cooperatives in Europe. And I'd almost said, we're now getting an impact on the draft budget that we're presenting, we're still going to get better at the work that we're already doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e528	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e531	I noticed the Council's response to the representative of Dørum when it comes to the management of scholarship holders, students who have received their education in Norway, when they have completed their education. I have the impression that the Council of State cannot be fully up-to-date on this issue, because all the available statistics show that the effect of the legislation we have had in Norway is that almost all these scholarship holders are porting in the United States, Canada or other Western European countries. And there can be no wise policy from the Norwegian side when we contribute to giving them a high level of competence, that we force them to use that competence in other rich countries. Let me also ask the Council of State: does he not believe that it must be in principle correct that the living property has also been removed from a global perspective? It is desirable that people live in their country, and return to their country, but it should not be forced?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e540	I stand by what I said, we don't have to be so observant that it's the consideration of our own workforce and our own needs that are governing for which students we're going to get into this country to qualify to do a job in the home country. If these students then choose to travel to the United States instead of going to their home country, there is little or nothing we can do with it. However, our ambition must be that the study to be conducted in Norway, the additional training to be carried out in Norway, will primarily benefit the country from which we recruit and pick up these students. Then, of course, we also have to act rationally within these rules. If conditions are right, and it would be natural for them to continue in Norway. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e549	Time's up. Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e554	I will relieve the Minister of Labour so that he does not answer anything he does not know anything about. That's why I'm going to the IT Minister, Councillor Grete Knudsen. I do not ask questions about IT Fornebu, but about the IT industry in general: What is the reason why the Government considers it necessary to introduce a VAT reform that discriminates against Norwegian software in relation to the purchase of foreign software?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e561	The introduction of VAT in the new areas, when it is seen that traditional industries are also declining, is a reform and a proposal which was also announced by the previous government and which we announced at the time of accession and repeated in the revised national budget. It is quite clear that it will affect a number of areas that have not been subject to VAT in the past, but in other areas we will come fully in line with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e566	That's not what I asked. I did not ask why the Bondevik administration had plans for some of the same thing. I asked why this government would introduce something that is characterised as follows, namely that foreign software is not subject to VAT, while Norwegian software is. I quote a representative of the industry, saying the following: ‘This means in practice that anyone who does not keep VAT accounts will be able to save large sums of money on purchasing software from abroad. These include banks, individuals and the public sector, including hospitals and schools’. What is the reason why the IT minister thinks this is a sensible mechanism to strengthen the Norwegian IT industry? I'm not asking about the views of the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e579	The government has put forward a general proposal on VAT, but has made exceptions in a few areas, including travel, and has then, on the basis of an overall assessment, concluded that we also need revenues to ensure some important welfare tasks. Everyone must take part in it, including the new IT industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e585	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e590	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Culture, who will direct him. Question 3, from the representative of Harald Solberg to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him. Question 11, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be moved and answered at the request of the Minister for Social Affairs in response to question 22, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 15, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 21, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e612	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘For a long time, the United States has been working on plans to deploy a rocket defense. [[National Missile Defense]] Will the Foreign Minister take an initiative towards NATO countries, so that the new US President will meet a common European stance not to implement the plans for a missile defence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e621	President Clinton's decision earlier this fall to postpone the deployment of a limited national missile defense was, in our view, a wise and correct decision. We are pleased with President Clinton's emphasis on the consideration of allies in NATO in his announcement of the postponement. We have to expect that the issue of the deployment of a national rocket defense will be on the American agenda regardless of who wins the presidential election in the United States next month. The U.S. missile defence plans have aroused wide-ranging debate in many countries. The plans raise a number of important and difficult issues related to the strategic balance, the impact on the international arms control regime, the relationship with Russia and the possibility of ‘different security’ for NATO Member States. Regardless of who will be the new president of the United States, we will continue to present our critical views to the Washington authorities. We are also concerned about continuing the review in NATO of the possible consequences of the missile defence plans before the United States, if necessary, takes a decision on the deployment of such a system. This is important, but to negotiate a European common position within NATO, I do not think that is necessary. We have had an open and useful discussion in NATO, where critical remarks have also been made by other allies. This dialog will continue. We also trust that the next president of the United States will listen to allies' views and emphasise them in his assessment of the issue of deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e639	I thank you for your answer. I broadly agree with the assessments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for example: based on the fact that both Chirac and several ministers in Germany, and China and Russia, have been critical of this. What surprises me is that the Foreign Minister will not use the strategy that one has for the movement of workers, that is, to have a few breakthroughs, there must be cohesion, because when one has a cohesion, one has a strength. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not want to take an initiative to promote cohesion in Europe, for example. Bush, if he was going to win unexpectedly, who clearly says that the ABM agreement should be rejected if one does not get adjusted him. This should be looked more offensively at by the Foreign Minister than what I feel he is doing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e648	As you know, we are not operating with the term ‘cohesion in Europe against the United States’ in relation to NATO. NATO is a collective security system for all countries in the organisation, so that Europe and the United States depend on working together. That is why there has been a dialogue between the United States and the other NATO Member States on this issue, and that dialogue will continue. But at the end of the day, this is a question of a national decision in the United States, on which the European Allies of course have an opinion. We have had that, and we are therefore in that dialogue. I can say that in most European countries — not all of them — there is quite a consensus on the critical questions that have been asked. So if you want to call it 'cohesion in Europe against the United States', you'd like to let SV do it, but we don't operate in that way within NATO cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e655	I found the answer from the foreign minister, to put it this way. So one realizes that an actual should have a certain cohesion to get through. This time it is with NATO countries in Europe, and all experience shows that one comes further if one has such cohesion. But I also note that the Foreign Minister does not want to give a very clear message to the United States. One should whisper in his ear that you don't have to do this, but one isn't willing to be very clear when it comes to this that's so important in relation to sitting so that there won't be a new nuclear race. So I still thought that the Foreign Minister must be clearer about the effort that can be expected from the Labour Party and the Foreign Minister when it comes to the disaster that it would be if you started to further develop this weapon system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e662	We have been clear enough about the critical questions that we have, including: effect on the ABM Agreement, on the entire arms control regime internationally. We want to clarify what this really is, how it's going to work, how much it's going to cost, and as I said, it's also essential to discuss the effect on the entire arms control regime. So there is no lack of clear signals, nor is there a lack of clear critical comments from the European countries. As you know, President Clinton has now postponed the decision itself, and it was positive, because the President also wants to know more about how this could possibly be implemented. We're in that phase now, and we're in a good dialogue. I do not see it as appropriate for us to interrupt the dialogue between Europe and the United States in the way that Langeland now suggests we should.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e672	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Food and Trade, is answered by the Minister for Culture, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e675	I have asked the Minister for Trade the following questions: ‘The Minister for Industry and Trade has recently held a press conference and has announced the development of broadband networks covering the whole country. Norkring AS has applied for a concession to expand broadband to 95 pst. of the population at a price of approx. Two billion dollars, and may have done the job in the course of about two months. 2 years. The technical solutions are already being used in several European countries. Norkring has not yet received an answer. When can Norkring expect to receive a response to the concession request?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e684	Initially, I have to make some clarifications in relation to the representative Bastisen's question. Norkring AS does not currently have an application from either the broadcasting authorities or others for a concession to expand a nationwide broadband network. I will give a brief overview of the background of the matter. In September 1999, the State Media Administration of Norkring AS granted a temporary concession to establish and operate installations for digital television test broadcasts from four transmitters until 31 December 2000. Norkring has subsequently applied for an extended probationary period. In addition, some applications have not been received by the broadcasting authorities. In connection with the application, however, Norkring AS informed that they had plans to build a permanent network on a commercial basis with a coverage up to 80 pst. The company also informed that a further extension to e.g. 95 pst. had to be financed by other means. Let me also make it clear that a digital television network is not just a broadband solution. The development of broadband is an important issue for this government. The action plan for broadband communications presented in the autumn mentions the implementation of appropriate regulation with a view to the rapid establishment of a digital television network as a promotion of competition. The deadline for this action is set for 2001. The Ministry is currently in the process of doing this, for example: in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport. As part of the work, it is necessary to consider how a concession to expand and operate a digital television network is to be granted. The basis for the work is St.meld. No 46 for 1998-99, digital television, and the treatment of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e695	I had a meeting with Norkring about this particular matter, and as I understood in that meeting, they had submitted a concession request. This is not about digital television, it is about using both the digital TV network and the digital radio network combined with telecommunications lines and the existing cable network. We can get 64 megabytes in, but a lower amount of information from the households. It's about $2 billion in expansion costs, and it's a technology that will give broadband to the whole people for a reasonable amount of money. I have no faith that it is possible to dig up all of Norway to provide broadband coverage to everyone via cable. This technique is probably the one that needs to be invested in. After the Council of State's reply, for which I would also like to thank you, I understand that there may be an opportunity for Norwegian to get a quick response to the concession request that I thought was there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e704	As mentioned above, the Government and Storting feel that the development of a digital television network should not be a State task. The point is that it's the actors, i.e. the broadcasters, which have to decide. Norkring has received an answer to the application in a decision of the Staten media administration on 19 October this year. This Decision includes, inter alia: that Norkring will be allowed to extend its concession until 4 July 2001 and will be able to deploy 2000 decoders in the relevant broadcasting areas as well as to provide a few more channels than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e711	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think the Council of State has understood my question and my supplementary question. Here it really is about what the government says, and what several state councils have said: broadband to the whole people. And I don't see any other technical solutions than using radio and TV signals on one side and cable and telecommunications lines on the other - back and forth. Because if you mean anything that all the people – and not just a small group around the biggest cities – are going to get broadband, you have to take such a grip. I demand that the Council of State take a better look at the issue and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e718	It is available per year. at present, there is no clear definition of the term ‘wideband’ and at present there is a wide disagreement between different market players as to what may be allowed to be marketed as broadband. However, an important feature of broadband is significant return capacity, i.e. that the user can also send, and not only receive, large amounts of data. Therefore, a digital TV network without a significant return capacity cannot be characterised as a broadband network. Per. Today, it is somewhat unclear how much return capacity such a network will have, and so it is also a little early to define a DTT network alone as a broadband network. However, because of the potential of such a network, it was natural to mention it in the broadband action plan, and we will come back as soon as possible with the prospects of getting broadband out to the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e726	This question, from the representative of Harald Solberg to the Minister for Labour and Administration, will be answered by the Minister for Health who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e729	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Tønsberg Blade 12 and 13 October 2000 show that, for a nurse from Poland, there has been a long and demanding process of clarifying what is required for the approval of Polish nursing training. What measures will the Council of State take to facilitate and speed up the qualification of a nurse in Norway in the training and experience of the home country subject?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e738	The main purpose of the authorisation system for healthcare professionals is to ensure the safety of patients. It shall ensure that health professionals with a specific title have a specific type of competence, i.e.: a similar level of education. In addition, of course, it is also an objective to facilitate rapid and effective authorisation for healthcare professionals needed in Norwegian healthcare. The question shows that it has taken time to clarify what is required for Polish nurse training to be approved. I do not know the specific case, but it should be possible to quickly inform the health authorities of the requirements for obtaining Norwegian authorisation. However, the process of recognition itself may be time-consuming, depending on the country from which the applicant is trained. All nurses from outside the EEA territory applying for Norwegian authorisation are individually evaluated. This applies, for example: for nurses from Poland. Within the EEA territory, Member States have agreed on mutual recognition of authorisations. It is based on similar training requirements in the EEA countries. In several of the former Eastern European countries, training differs from Norwegian requirements or from EEA requirements, both in terms of professional content, duration of education and level of education. Therefore, in order to meet the requirement that the foreign education should be equivalent to Norwegian education, applicants with a lower level of education or with a lower level of education than Norwegian nurses usually have to complete additional training at a Norwegian nursing school. In addition, all applicants with training from non-EEA countries must take a course in so-called national care. The price lasts for three weeks, usually arranged twice per. and contains themes such as pharmacology, national legislation, social sciences and nursing. I understand that the system for the recognition of foreign health professionals can be challenging. I therefore continuously assess whether there are possibilities for simplification of the system. In this respect, I can mention that in September the Ministry lifted the requirement that applicants from outside the EEA territory have passed a language test in Norwegian before the application can be examined by the approval authorities. I will also, as mentioned above, consider other simplifications, such as: the possibility of a form of prior approval of specific training establishments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e755	I thank you for your answer. The simplifications mentioned by the Council of State are, of course, positive. Nevertheless, a nurse from Poland with five years of nursing education and experience as a nurse, and who is still speaking Norwegian, is still unable to validate her education. The paradox in this case is, as the Council of State also pointed out, that if this person had come from neighbouring Poland, from Germany, this would not be a current issue. The same applies from the date that Poland may become a member of the EU or the EEA. We know that in Westfold there are 50 unoccupied nurse positions. In this case, they need her as a nurse in the municipality in question. At country level, there is also a major shortage of nurses. The former Director of Labour would travel to the Philippines to pick up nurses to Norway. In this situation, it becomes natural to ask whether the Council of State agrees that we should make use of the resources we already have in the country. In addition, it is natural to ask the Council of State if the health authorities will do something concrete to help this nurse to obtain recognition of education and, where appropriate, to obtain a temporary approval, until the necessary examinations have been taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e764	There were several additional questions, but briefly: I agree that we should primarily use the resources that are already in the country. We should take full advantage of the resources that are the easiest to use, and I imagine that it is much easier to use the resources that are already in the country, that speak Norwegian and that are working here, rather than other measures. But one doesn't rule out the other. In the case of the specific case, it is just to say that there is a difference in the treatment of applicants from countries with which we have concluded agreements based on the fact that there is a similar level of education compared to applicants from all other countries. It is not that the person concerned is not able to obtain approval, but that she must comply with the rules currently applicable to that type of approval. As I said, I'm going to continuously explore possibilities for simplification, for example. with prior recognition of specific training courses also in non-EEA countries, and other measures which may simplify and speed up the process in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e776	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «The CatoCenter in Son is threatened by closure. At the same time, we see that several hospitals build up their own rehabilitation departments, where supply will cost the public much more than private institutions. The reason is that hospitals can send the bill for the offer to the State under the ISF scheme. Does the Council consider this to be the effective use of scarce financial resources, and what will the Council of State do to ensure a more efficient use of resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e785	The deployment of input-driven funding focused on the inclusion of rehabilitation in the scheme. This was in order to ensure the provision of patients with chronic conditions and complex disease images. In many cases, the full effectiveness of medical treatment will require good rehabilitation, and it is important to start rehabilitation already while in the hospital. At the same time, I am committed to promoting a good work sharing between hospitals and other rehabilitation services. New hospital capacity is not assumed to be set up to the detriment of already established offers. The Ministry shall make use of its ability to take this into account in the forthcoming examination of regional health plans. With regard to the special situation of the CatoCenter, the Ministry intends to contribute to ensuring the operation of the current year through a specific grant of 3,1 million. kr. The size of the population will be briefed on this in the regrouping proposal on population protection. An application for authorisation by a special health care institution for treatment in the department. Finally, this matter will be resolved on the basis of a new regulation on training institutions and special health institutions, which is now under work, and will therefore not be possible in the current year. Cooperation between the CatoCenter and the Ministry has therefore been established with a view to ensuring the operational basis for parts of the Centre in 2001 through a separate project. I assume that this work will provide some clarification as to both the patient base and the interest of potential partners, thereby helping to provide a basis for the final decisions related to the CatoSenter’s possible connection to public health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e796	I'm glad that it has so far become a solution for CatoCenter, and based on the professional quality of CatoCenter has as a special training institution, and the exchange and cooperation they have with Sunnaas Hospital in terms of competence, I believe that CatoCenter must receive an approval as a training institution. There is a great need for this type of rehabilitation. It is also reassuring to hear that the Minister of Health is committed to promoting a good division of labour between hospitals and private rehabilitation institutions, and that the capacity of hospitals should not be distorted by the established services, because it would be a poor use of resources. When hospitals choose to rehabilitate patients under their own control, it costs up to seven times more per year. daily than in the private rehabilitation institutions. By rehabilitating institutions taking care of rehabilitation and by concentrating on treatment and care, we get the best possible use of resources. Does not the Minister of Health also believe that this is the most correct issue in terms of health policy, and also that patients have the best chance of getting out of the hospital environment in a rehabilitation phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e805	Well, I mean what the representative here points to at the end of his question is the right use of resources, and I want as much advice, of course, to strive for the kind of division of work between hospitals and rehabilitation institutions. But I don't want to go so far as to say that this is a very clear distinction between where rehabilitation can happen. As I said in my first post, it is sometimes important that rehabilitation work takes place quickly after hospital treatment, that it can even happen at the same time that hospital treatment is also taking place, and that, in this way, there may be good reasons why rehabilitation work is also being done in hospitals. But as usual, one doesn't have to rule out the other. The fact that we are here to work for the best possible use of resources is quite obvious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e810	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. There is very little evidence as to the impact of rehabilitation at special health institutions, public rehabilitation departments and training institutions and at what price. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he can take the initiative for a professional and unhealthy review – that is, an evaluation – of these institutions, so that we can get a comprehensive and comprehensive perspective and an overview of the rehabilitation offer. I am sure that there are professional environments that can carry out such an evaluation, so that one can provide the best possible range of services for the patient, which is also the most socio-economic option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e817	A good deal of work has been done to compare the effects and costs between the different institutions, as well as hospitals, which work in this area. I have to admit that I do not have such a good overview of the results of the work that has been done, that I can now judge whether there is a reasonable need to carry out such an investigation as the representative Sjøli asks me to take the initiative. But it's quite natural to consider it, there's no problem, without me saying here and now that there will be such an evaluation. I have to assess it in relation to the work that I know has already been done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e825	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The size has adopted a psychiatry escalation plan, but the Municipality of Oslo does not seem to want to follow this plan. The closures of departments and posts at Gaustad Hospital are continuing, and this time it is the department of double diagnosis, i.e., abusing and psychiatry, that is to be shut down. In the past, the Kastanje Hill has been closed. Is this done in accordance with one of the approved psychiatry plans of the Ministry for the Municipality of Oslo?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e834	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has for some time obtained a statement from the Municipality of Oslo on the closure of daily places at Aker Hospital, Hospital for Psychiatry, Gaustad. The statement states that the closure of the Kastanje hill is part of the general transition to be made in the Aker sector. This conversion involves, inter alia: the introduction of a clearer division of tasks between the hospitals and the district psychiatric centres — DPS. An example of such a distribution is that rehabilitation tasks are transferred from the hospital to the DPS, as is the case with the chestnut tray. Such conversion is in accordance with the guidelines laid down in the notification of St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97 and St.prp. No 63 for 1997-98, on which the mental health escalation plan is based. The municipality of Oslo has informed that none of the patients who receive their treatment at the Kastanje hill will remain without a treatment offer as a result of the closure. Patients will be able to receive treatment at the district psychiatric centres in the Aker sector or at other hospital wards if some patients need continued hospital treatment. The Ministry has also been briefed on the Municipality of Oslo’s draft budget for 2001, with the aim of establishing a city-wide offer for patients with doublediagnosis, severe mental illness and serious drug problems, at Tøyen DPS and Leirvoll in Røyken. Leirvoll Psychiatric Centres are assigned tasks to patients with drug dependence and mental illness, as part of the strengthening of the provision of this patient group. The measure is seen in the context of the establishment of new outpatient services at Tøen DPS and is assumed to be developed in close cooperation with drug services. As part of this, the current section is proposed for patients with double diagnosis at Aker Hospital, Gaustad. The Ministry has not yet received a comprehensive plan for the implementation by the Municipality of Oslo of the plans for the escalation of County Mental Health Protection. For this reason, the increase in earmarked grants for 2000 has also been withheld. The Ministry has previously addressed the missing plan with the Municipality of Oslo. The Municipality of Oslo has informed that an overall plan in the form of a notification to the City Council will be submitted in December. When reviewing this plan material, the Ministry will also take a stand on the offer to patients with double diagnosis. The review will take place on the basis of, inter alia: in the investigations into the use of drugs and psychiatry carried out by the Health Authority. One of the conclusions of these investigations is that there should be a daily distribution for double-diagnosis patients at central hospital level, in addition to the fact that there should be outpatient provision for this patient group at DPS level. Finally, I would like to stress that the transitions are necessary if we are to have a good use of the state strengthening funds and a required lifting of the supply to people with mental illness. However, we need to ensure that existing offers are not put down until new and better offers are in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e847	I thank the Council of State for a well-worked response, which I think was positive. What I want to say in addition is that it amazes me that the Municipality of Oslo has not yet delivered a psychiatry plan, as imposed on all municipalities, and as most have followed up. There is good reason for the Ministry to follow closely what is going on in the municipality of Oslo on health issues in general. Treatment of patients with double diagnosis is very complicated. They must initially have a longer institutional stay before they can be released from outpatient treatment. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if it could be a thought to ask the State Health Authority to look specifically at this plan to close the department for double diagnosis at Gaustad, because it is very important that these people get good help in the initial phase of their treatment and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e856	First of all, I would like to say that I share with the representative Alvheim's surprise that the Municipality of Oslo has spent so much time making an overall plan for its work in the field of mental health protection. It has been pointed out to the municipality, and this is why we have withheld the increase in the funds that should be conditional on such a plan being in place and also satisfactory. With regard to Alvheim's supplementary questions, it's absolutely a thought to do what he's doing there. That is to the extent that it is when I say that we want to assess the plan that comes in the light of the investigations already carried out by the Health Authority and that takes into account the circumstances pointed out by the representative Alvheim. It also lies in the fact that we will do so in close cooperation with the Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e863	I thank you again for the answer. The signals I have received regarding the Tøen DPS, which is to take over these patients, are based on the fact that this has centered neither professional capacity nor manning capacity to do. It is assumed that these patients will be injured. In general government, it is unfortunately difficult to get professionals on the job because they have strong confidentiality requirements from their employer, so it is difficult to get real and good information. But I think the department is going to sacrifice a reasonable amount of time on what the Municipality of Oslo is doing also in this part of our health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e873	I shall be allowed to ask a new question to the Minister of Health: ‘Telemark Central Hospital, as the only central hospital in the country, has its own palliative bed unit with competence teams for advanced cancer patients. How can the Council of State help to ensure the operation of this unit in 2001?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e882	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has received an application from Telemark Central Hospital, an application which has been subsequently confirmed and supported by the Municipality of Telemark County. In 1999 and 2000, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, as part of the National Cancer Plan, has allocated funds to all health regions to build centres of expertise for relieving treatment and care at regional hospitals. A continuation of this grant is envisaged for the remaining three years of the cancer plan period. The main tasks of the centres of competence shall be: They shall be responsible for teaching and training in the health region, both to other hospitals and to primary health services.They shall be the «engine» and the coordinator of a process leading to the strengthening of the competence of relief and care in counties and municipalities. An important prerequisite for contributing to the build-up of skills in relieving treatment in the counties and in the community health services is to invest in professional settings in each state. Planning of relief units in all the states of the Southern Health Region is under way, and Telemark County has come most far through the establishment of a separate relief unit. What is now happening in Telemark and in the other states of the health region is very positive. The Norwegian Radium Hospital is now planning a centre of expertise for relief and care in the Southern Health Region. The centre shall be located at the Norwegian Radium Hospital but shall cooperate closely with the Rikshospitalet. For this structure, the Radium Hospital receives funds within the cancer plan. I believe that this is an important development work that is now being done at Telemark Central Hospital. We are about to conclude the examination of the application for a grant to the hospital in 2001. The starting point is that costs of relieving treatment are to be covered by central hospitals. However, the department will engage in dialogue with the Radium Hospital, the County Municipality and the Hospital to look at whether new measures in cooperation between the Radium Hospital's competence centre function and the hospital's relieving treatment can contribute to the continuation of the project. In this work, the Ministry will assess the possibility of a certain financial contribution to the hospital. In this respect, it is emphasised that the experience gained will benefit other hospitals and other health regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e905	I thank the Minister of Health again for a positive answer. It is nice to ask the Minister of Health today. I'm not going to do any proceedings on the interlocutory here. I use the case from Telemark on a principle basis because we all agree on the importance of establishing painkillers and palliative units at all the largest hospitals in the country. Unfortunately, the need for pain management is increasing as cancer breaks down more and more. Following the answer given by the Minister of Health, I will address one follow-up question: Will the Ministry and the Minister of Health assess whether this treatment can be brought into the DRG system, so that it is always predictable when such sections are established? It would be a disaster if you had to put this offer down next year because of bad economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e914	The question that the representative of Alvheim is asking is an assessment question. What I can say about it, is that this can be done to some extent, as far as this type of treatment is often also given as part of a normal treatment of cancer. In that case, this coincides. But what is described as a purely mitigating treatment, with only one purpose in a phase of disease development, may seem to be a form of treatment that is more appropriate to a different form of funding than through the DRG system that we have. But these are questions that are being considered and hopefully will find a satisfactory solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e922	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Norwegian snuff boxes have a warning from the Ministry of Social and Health that snuffing is a carcinogen and seriously harmful to health. The Swedish Social Board report 1997:11 shows that there is no safe link between snuggling and cancer. In Sweden, authorities have decided to remove the warning marking on the snuff boxes. Effective public health work depends on scientifically sound information provided by the authorities. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Ministry provides correct information on snuffing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e931	Current health hazard labelling rules for tobacco, including snuffs, are based on EU directives. Both Sweden and Norway are obliged to comply with these provisions. The current EU Directive provides for the marking of snout boxes: ‘Tocco causes serious health damage’ and ‘Touchers’. This has been implemented by national legislation in both Sweden and Norway. Swedish authorities have worked actively in relation to the EU to change today’s rules on the labelling of snuffs. There is today a draft new EU directive on tobacco, which contains new provisions on the labelling of turnarounds. The proposal for new warning markings is that this tobacco product ‘may harm your health and create addiction’. If a directive with such content is adopted, Norway will also have to amend the legislation accordingly. A number of health authorities’ opinions classifying snuff as a carcinogen are available. The U.S. Health Director published a large report on snuff and snuff in 1986. The report summarises a number of studies that have shown that snuffing causes cancer. The report concludes that the use of such tobacco ‘produces a clear health hazard and is not a safe substitute for cigarette smoking. Sneezing and sneezing may cause cancer and other oral cavity diseases and may lead to nicotine dependence’. The WHO International Institute for Cancer, IARC, evaluated snus in 1985. The Cancer Research Institute then stated that: ‘there is sufficient evidence that the use of snuff of the types common in North America and Western Europe is carcinogenic to humans’. The IARC has not revised this classification and is therefore still snuffed out on the IARC list of carcinogens. Report No. 11 from 1997 comments on two recent Swedish surveys on snuff use. Both studies are fully or partially funded by the Swedish tobacco industry. These two studies do not provide any clear evidence of a safe link between sedation and increased cancer risk. However, the Social Security Board is cautious in interpreting the results of these two studies and indicates that it is not possible to draw the conclusion that snuff does not increase the risk of cancer on the basis of the studies. However, Swedish snuff contains less carcinogenic nitrosamines than American snuff. This may mean that Swedish snuff causes less cancer risk than American snuff. U.S. health authorities have re-evaluated smoke-free tobacco from May 2000 in the Report on Carcinogens. This report classified snuff as cause of cancer in humans. The US authorities now agree that the health hazard marking on the snuff packages should be: ‘Warning: This product may cause oral cancer’. I am, as the representative of Skogholt asks, particularly concerned that all health information and health labelling should be considered on a safe scientific basis, and the State Tobacco Injury Council closely follows up new research results, including on snuffing. But as long as the IARC classifies snuff as a carcinogen, and the US health authorities as late as we have increased their classification of smoke-free tobacco, it is my opinion that Norway should not now take the initiative to change today's warning marking of snuff boxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e959	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am somewhat surprised that the Swedish Tobacco Injury Council and the Department overlook the results of research in Sweden in this area. In the light of this work, the Swedish authorities have decided to amend today’s rules for the labelling of snuffs, i.e. to remove the labelling that snuffs are carcinogenic. I will also be shown a number of studies by professor of odontology at the University of Oslo, Tonny Axel. His conclusion is that there is no connection between the use of snuff and cancer. I am concerned that effective public health work will depend on scientifically sustainable information. Does the Council of State have no confidence in the results of the research carried out by the Swedes in this area? And does the Council of State think that Swedish authorities ignore the alleged cancer in their active work in relation to the EU in order to change today's rules on the labelling of snuff?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e966	It is not the case that the Department or the State Tobacco Injury Board in any way overlooks the research results and research reports that come to mind in this matter. On the contrary, we have both good information about it and follow it, as I said in my post, carefully in all the new research that is taking place in the area, and will take it into account in our further work on this. Yes, I have faith in the research that is taking place around, including the one that the representative of Skogholt here refers to. But I stress that before we possibly take any initiative to change the provisions, it is necessary that all of these research results are sought in the context, so that we can just be sure that the health hazard marking we carry out is based on the safest scientific basis. And it is also true that in this work, Swedish authorities will first have to work with EU bodies in relation to amendments to directives. We will have close cooperation with the Swedish authorities on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e973	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State stated in its first reply, among other things. the following: ‘If a directive with such content is adopted, Norway will also have to amend the legislation accordingly.’; I am aware that on 4 October the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health sent a letter to the EU, to Cathrine Steinsland, on the warning marking on snuff boxes in view of the Swedish initiative. In that letter it is clear that the Department does not want to comply or to be positive about working with the Swedes in order to obtain such a marking of the snuff boxes. My supplementary question to the Council of State must then be: how will the Council of State follow up the proposed amended EU directive and, if necessary, be involved in influencing the final directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e985	What has been done so far in this case is based on what has been the Norwegian position on this issue until now. As I have said before, we will follow closely in all the research that is going on, and has done, in this area, and we will have a close cooperation with the Swedish authorities on this issue to assure us that we have the same basis for assessing these questions on which the Swedish authorities base themselves. When it comes to following up EU directives, it is that we will actively follow up the directives that have to be adopted in this context, but, as I said, I do not now find any reason on the basis that we have, to take any specific initiative to change the practices laid down in our legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e993	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The application for the compulsory reimbursement of gout medicine Celebra was sent on 30 March 2000 and, by price approval, on 15 June 2000, the time limit for the application for reimbursement started to run. For the time being, the administration of medicinal products has not responded to that application, despite the fact that the period, which under the EEA rules is 90 days, has been exceeded by one month. How does the Council of State view Norway in this way as in breach of the EEA Rules of Procedure, and when will an answer be available in this case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1002	Applications from pharmaceutical companies for the compulsory reimbursement of medicinal products shall, as a general rule, be decided within 90 working days. If it is necessary to ask the Agency for further information, the time limit shall be suspended until such time as the necessary information is available. This is the result of Council Directive 89/105/EEC, which is part of the EEA Agreement. The same rules are laid down in the regulation on reimbursement of expenditure on important medicinal products § 10. The organisation of state pharmaceutical management has been poorly adapted to the procedural requirements of the legislation and obligations under the EEA Agreement in this type of case. Until 1 October of this year, all reimbursement applications were dealt with by the Rikstrygdeverket. In cases with significant economic consequences, the Riksstrøgdeverket has routinely requested the State Medicines Control Agency to prepare a health-economic evaluation of the medicinal product concerned. This was then sent to the Rikstrygdeverket, who then wrote his recommendation and sent the matter to the department for final decision. Fragmented pharmaceutical management takes longer to investigate a matter than a single administration, making it difficult to meet the requirements of the EEA Agreement. I consider it very important that we comply with the EEA rules, and took an important step to get the proceedings in this type of case under control earlier this year, when the responsibility of the Swedish National Agency for the handling of requests for reimbursement under Section 9 of the regulation was transferred to the State Medicines Control. The size was briefed on this in St.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000, and the reform was widely endorsed in the Netherlands. S. No 220. This collection of proceedings will make the application procedure more effective. Therefore, there is reason to believe that the assumptions to comply with the 90-day deadline will be better in the coming period. The medicinal product concerned Celebra is authorised in Norway and is therefore available for general prescription to patients suffering from hip and arthritis. The preparation can be refunded today on an individual application from the individual patient’s doctor. The current question is whether to allow for reimbursement without a prior application. As far as I understand, the 90-day period in this case expires in these days. The case has not been completed. If none of the legislative rules extending the time limit has been applied, this means that the time limit has been exceeded. I consider it unsatisfactory. The delay is partly related to the reorganisation I just described. I have asked the State Medicines Control Authority to give priority to this matter within the usual requirements for proper treatment. Once the State Medicines Control has completed its proceedings, the matter will be referred to the Ministry. If it comes to the conclusion that reimbursement of expenditure for the purchase of this product should be given priority to the health budget, the Stortinge case will be dealt with as a budgetary matter. This could be done in the revised 2001 national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1030	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is gratifying that the Council of State will now follow up on this, especially as regards the duration of treatment. Celebra is a new gout medicine with much less side effects than traditional treatment. Very many scratches are exposed to side effects of traditional medicines. In Norway it is approx. 250,000 barbers. In a recently released press release, the Revmatik Association claims that a total of 12 pst. of these patients get gastric ulcers and that 120 to 150 die annually because of the side effects of traditional medicines. Does the Minister of Health believe it is right that Norwegian revenators should wait for reimbursement of new effective medicines due to delays related to new administrative procedures due to the introduction of new pharmaceutical legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1039	No, I do not think that is reasonable, and I have also already said that the delay in this case in the proceedings is unsatisfactory. The only other thing I can say is that the medicine in question is approved in Norway, and reimbursement is possible, but upon application by each doctor until this matter is resolved, which I will make sure can be done now as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also noted in the previous answer from the Council of State that if the Ministry approved this, it could perhaps be seen in the context of the revised national budget for 2001. Personally, I now hope that this answer will come so quickly that it may be possible to do so at an earlier stage – it is of course up to the Council of State if it will be possible – but simply because of the fact that Norwegianrevmatists and patients who are struggling with these problems in their daily lives, both with the risk of serious side effects that could lead to death, and not least those who suffer from stomach ulcers as a side effect of traditional drugs, can get the most help in everyday life to get better. So I hope the council follows up this. I am reasonably sure that he will do so, and I look forward to this matter being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1055	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The coastal hospital in Stavern is a county special hospital for the rehabilitation of patients with complex conditions. An adjustment to the legislation on input-driven financing by the Bondevik Government for the current year provides the Coastal Hospital with an income reduction of nearly 30 million. In 1999 to approx. Eight million. 2000 kroner for approximately the same level of activity. Does the Council of State see any possibility of actively contributing to the prevention of the reduction of the supply in the Southern Health Region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1064	The very short answer to Mr. Lian's question is, yes, I see such possibilities. But I'm going to go closer and closer to how they think he is. The background is that the intervention funding mechanism was introduced in the summer of 1997 as an instrument to stimulate the increase and effectiveness of hospital treatment provision. The scheme has worked to a large extent according to the intentions. The ISF scheme is based on the fact that the State ISF payments are to go to the county municipalities for, inter alia, to provide these with the possibility of correcting or equalising adverse outcomes for individual hospitals. It can be noted that the conversion of the Code for Encoding of Rehabilitation carried out from 1997 to 1998 provides significant negative results for the Coastal Hospital in Stavern. I also record that the Vestfold County Municipality believes that without any change in the budgetary basis, it will not be possible to continue the main lines of the hospital's business. This has also been notified from the county council to the Regional Health and Social Committee. The ISF system is based on a horizontal regulatory framework, focusing on the overall impact on the individual county. Based on the very special findings of this case, I am concerned that the entire case complex and the associated legislation with the importance of the Coastal Hospital's funding is being reviewed with a view to helping to create an economic basis for the Coastal Hospital to continue its important role in the health service in the Southern Health Region. I have registered a disagreement about the calculation basis for the level of payments in 2000. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health therefore received a letter dated 19 October. submitted the case to the new Advisory Forum on ISF registration to obtain the opinions and advice of this panel. As the sample is to review the entire case complex, the evaluations will cover both the current year and 2001. Regardless of this work, I can inform you, as I have also done to the Vestfold County Municipality, that in the 2001 ISF payment guidelines, we aim to use a coding factor that reduces the loss for the county municipalities where the coding of rehabilitation was significantly changed from 1997 to 1998. I would like to stress that the matter can be resolved quickly and notified back to the County of Vestfold, and that there are solutions to provide a basis for the continuation and continued development of the important treatment offered by the Coastal Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1079	I am very pleased with the positive answer I have now received, for the Minister of Health gives clear signals here about the possibility of future operations at the Coast Hospital in Stavern. The conversion of the legislation has resulted in a significant negative impact on the Coastal Hospital, as the Minister of Health points out in his reply. The population of the health region of South will now be able to make it possible for the special hospital to become what it is planned for in the future. After the reconstruction a few years ago, the Coast Hospital now appears to be a new hospital with more than double capacity, with new treatment provision and a registration practice that reflects medical and administrative activity. My supplementary question is: How quickly can Vestfold County Council get a final feedback on when they can get their money for the current year? And can there be more predictable rules for future planning?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1088	I understand, of course, that this is a question that not only concerns the Westfold County Municipality, but everyone who is concerned about ensuring the development of the important offer provided by the Coast Hospital. So at least I want to make sure that the matter can be dealt with as quickly as possible in the current year, but it is a little difficult to give detailed deadlines. I have asked the newly created sample to go through this matter, and it seems a little difficult here and now to give a clear deadline for this. But I think it will be possible to arrive at a final conclusion in the current year, all the time this applies to both the current and next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1096	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘In several of our high schools, there is a lack of school health service, or a total absence of such a service. What can the Council of State do to ensure the best possible school health service for our secondary schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1105	School health services in secondary schools are governed by local health law and regulations on health services in schools. This regulation applies to primary and secondary education in children and young people. School health is a municipal responsibility, also in secondary schools. In 1998, the Health Inspectorate ‘Head of Health Station and School Health Service’ published professional recommendations which also include secondary schools. The supervisor recommends individual guidance and targeted health study for all 1st-class secondary school students according to their needs and risks. In addition, health information on issues such as cohabitation, sexuality, prevention and sexually transmitted diseases, diet, tobacco, alcohol and physical activity is recommended. State health surveillance has been outsourced to the school health service for joint supervision in 2000. Supervision will be carried out in at least two municipalities in all counties of the country. At least one of the municipalities has to have secondary school. The background to supervision is a desire to follow up the ‘Head of Health Station and School Health Services’. School health is a vulnerable service. In the 1999 Supervisory Communication, the Health Authority expressed concern about the weak prioritisation of the service. I share that concern. The supervision will be completed by the end of this year and a joint summary report will be drawn up in the light of the supervisory reports of the county doctors. Health promotion and prevention for children and young people is a focus of the Government. The action plan for mental health 1999-2006 will be central to the development of the health centre and school health service, and in particular to the provision of services to young people. In order to increase efforts in the psychosocial field, it is advisable to strengthen health centre and school health services by 800 years of work during the planning period. In St. pp. No 1 for 2000-2001 summarises the experience gained with the implementation of the escalation plan to date. It should be noted that a stronger focus on the efforts of children and young people is desirable, where the development of health and school health services, cultural and leisure activities will be central. It also states that the aim of this work must be both to prevent psychosocial problems and to build up a service provision for vulnerable groups. On the basis of the Health Station and School Health Services Guide, a plan has been drawn up for the Health and Health Services and the activities of county doctors to support the municipalities in the desired conversion and the continuous quality improvement work in the health and school health services. Action plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion 1999-2003 also stimulates increased cooperation between school, health and school health services and the establishment of a health centre for young people. The means from the plan are further used to develop educational material for secondary and secondary schools. Young people’s health centre shall be a complement to the school health service. It is also aimed at strengthening the research evaluation and methodological development of health centre and school health services. There is thus a lot of work going on to prioritize health work for young people, including the school health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1124	I would like to thank the Council of State for a positive response. It is important that all secondary schools have access to the school health service. A few days ago, several of us had a visit to the Youth County in Hedmark. They were concerned that the school health service was deficient in several high schools. The municipalities are responsible for the school health service. The secondary schools cover more municipalities than the municipality in which the school is established. I think this may be a cause for lack of school health service in some of our high school schools. The municipalities should probably distribute the expenses. I am pleased with the joint supervision that is in place and that will be implemented during the current year. If the summary report is not satisfactory, will the Council of State take an initiative towards the municipalities, possibly the regions, in order to obtain the best possible health and school health service for a group that is highly dependent on this service?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1135	The answer to this is unconditionally yes. I believe that the school health service is one of the most important elements in all preventive health work – particularly important. As I said, it is with quite great concern that I see that work in some cases has become too low a priority. That is the concern expressed by the Health Authority so far. If the supervision currently carried out for the current year confirms this, it is clear that we need to take specific action towards municipalities to strengthen the work. In this connection, I would also like to look at the problem that the representative of Skogholt raised with regard to host municipalities for schools that cover more than the municipality where the school is located.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1140	Question 11 has been moved and will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1146	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Culture: ‘Hordaland County Council received on 18 October 2000 no from the Ministry of Social Security for State participation in a collective action team at Kokstad/Sandsli in Bergen. The municipality and the county are told to arrange themselves. This is despite the fact that a joint Committee on Transport in the current year’s budgetary procedure asked the Ministry of Transport to decide that appropriate collective solutions may be implemented. What has the Council of State done to follow up on the comment of this co-consultant?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1155	The letter from the Ministry of Transport of 18 October 2000 to which reference is made relates to replies to an application from the County Council of Hordaland for the allocation of 40,5 million from the grant scheme for rational and environmentally friendly transport. kr for the implementation of measures in Bergen. In the letter from the Ministry, the application from the County Municipality of Hordaland was rejected as a result of the size falling outside the scope and purpose of the scheme. This applies both in terms of appropriations and in terms of time. Contact had been made in advance with the county council in order to adapt the application, if possible, within the framework without this being possible. A total of 21 million for the year. Therefore, kr is priority collective action in West Agder, Hedmark, Oslo and Süd-Trøndelag. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000–01, a total of 75 million has been proposed for the road budget. kr for collective actions in Hordaland in 2001, of which 60 million. kr is financed by tolls. The funds will go to measures in the metropolitan area as a whole. A substantial part of the funds is expected to go to public transport measures in the Kokstad/Sandsli area. This is in line with the comments of the Committee on Transport regarding the 2000 budget. Budget-in-one. S. No 13 for 1999-2000. The final allocation of collective funds in 2001 will be clarified in the context of the preparation of a new toll agreement for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1162	The situation at Sandsli/Kokstad is a bit special. Of course, it has arisen because of the lack of planning of the municipality of Bergen, but also the state is responsible for this, because the state of Hordaland Road Office had to see what would happen to traffic development in this area. That's why the state has a co-responsibility. The Council of State said that the funds contained in the national transport plan and in the budget targeted at investment measures follow up the Storting's intention. But I think that Storting's intention was also to look at immediate measures, and then it also applies to project, directly to this. After all, the government has proposed that some of these schemes be terminated. Does the Council not see the need to maintain these incentive schemes in order to respond to such situations as arise here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1169	Let me first say that I agree that there are major challenges on the collective side of the mountain area, and not least the Kokstad/Sandsli area. This is precisely why, as mentioned in my main reply, it is also intended that important things will happen there in 2001. In this context, tolls will also be used for collective action. It is primarily on the investment side when it comes to the organisation of infrastructure, we are responsible, seen by the Road Administration. In the case of operating grants, the subsidy scheme to which the representative referred was not intended to apply such measures. For our part, we have also signaled in the National Transport Plan that we will go into and look into the organisation of public transport in large urban areas, and such an area is, to the most extent, the mountainous region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1176	The reason why the government wants to abolish these incentives is that one sees that they may be used as direct operating incentives for some collective actions. But this is collective action, a project where you look at whether you can further develop what you have, so it's an important asset to have where it is, even if it can go directly to business. Doesn't the Council of State see the major problems in Bergen in traffic management? There are price increases and cuts, one gets VAT, and one gets a cyclical tax, which means that the county council makes proposals for large price increases on public transport in Bergen. We know that Hordaland County has a deficit of 300 million. kr, and the county has major problems in meeting its obligations. Does the state not see that Bergen and Hordaland have such great needs that the state may have to go in and increase its share in the collective effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1183	I would like to repeat that I agree that there are major challenges on the collective side of this area, which we go deeper into. Then I would like to take the opportunity once again to state that, as far as the VAT system is concerned, we propose that it be compensated for the effects of VAT on local and regional public transport. We will add up to that when VAT is introduced in these areas. In addition, we will follow up on what is in the 2001 budget, and also further on on on the organisation of public transport in this area, which is one of the most populous areas we have in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1193	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘After the recent decommissioning of the ‘Haakon VII’ rescue boat, the hard weather and high traffic of the coast between Måløy and Kristiansund stands without a rescue boat. Moor and Romesdal, with 25 pst. by the country’s fishermen, now have only one remaining life-guard. The rescue company also warns that a further five lifeguards are removed from standby from the new year. Does the Council of State consider this to be an acceptable situation in view of fishermen’s lives and health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1202	Grants to the Rescue Company are within the Ministry of Fisheries programme category 16.60 Coastal Management, which includes the coastal administration, port services, fire services, pilotage services, traffic centres and electronic navigation aids. The overall objective of the Ministry of Fisheries within this programme category is to ensure the safety and availability of Norwegian waters and ports. In an assessment of the overall safety at sea, the Government has proposed a total allocation for the programme category coastal management of 1,044 million. kr, which is an increase of 9,5 pst. in relation to the 2000 budget. For 2001, we have given priority to, inter alia: marking of the Quick Boat Manager. With a total increase in the year’s budget for the programme category Coastal Management, the Government considers that this contributes to enhancing maritime safety. A grant to the Rescue Company of 43.3 million is proposed. kr. Although the grant to the Rescue Company is reduced by 8.7 million. kr in relation to the 2000 budget, it is important to stress here that the grant from the State represents a small proportion of the overall income of the Rescue Company. In 1999, the government's subsidy amounted to approximately 18 pst. of the total income of the company. Compared to total revenue in 1999, a cut of 8.7 million will be achieved. kr represents a total reduction in the company’s revenue of less than 3 pst. In view of this, it may be called into question that the rescue company now appears to have to take out a total of six ships due to the reduction in state subsidies, which thus only amounts to 3 pst. of total income. During search and rescue operations, the rescue skates are under the operational direction of a local rescue centre or one of the main rescue centres. All changes in the stationing and disposal of the rescue skates take place in cooperation with the main rescue centres and relevant stakeholder organisations. I therefore assume that the allocation of the ships to the Rescue Company is determined from where they make the most use of the overall emergency plan. It may seem unfortunate to the safety of the sea that the rescue company now chooses to pull rescue skates out of standby. At the same time, safety must be seen in a comprehensive perspective. This means that the total appropriations under the Ministry of Fisheries for coastal management, under the Ministry of Defence for Coast Guard and other marine vessels and appropriations under the Ministry of Justice for the Main Rescue Centres, the Coastal Radio and the Voluntary Aid Organisations are seen in the context. In this context, the Government considers that the draft budget as a whole contributes to an acceptable safety situation at sea for fishermen and other seafarers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1213	I would like to thank the Minister for Fisheries for the answer. When one was made aware of the unacceptable situation as it was presented in my question, there was no lack of response. Fishermen’s teams, municipalities, individuals, and others were afraid that the situation could have disastrous consequences. In 1999, the Rescue Company rescued 166 people on the sea and mountain 134 vessels. As we all know, the sea is a very risky workplace. In my opinion, fishermen and other seafaring demands that society provide maximum security. Acute situations have arisen and will arise. Can the Minister for Fisheries consider alternative arrangements, other cooperation arrangements with regard to the Rescue Company, so as to ensure the long-term and stability of the rescue service? The Minister of Fisheries said that there was a total reduction of only 3 pst. But if it's cut all the way down to the leg already, even the 3 pst. have disastrous consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1222	I agree with the representative of Kongshaug that there is a lot that can be done in order to get the most out of the effort that is being made on maritime safety. I believe that this has been satisfactorily done today with the coordination that the main rescue agencies are doing. Of course, with regard to the possibility of coordinating the rescue company more closely with public authorities, we should look at this. The rescue company is a highly respected institution in Norwegian coastal communities. We have the tradition that Norwegian coastal communities, women and men, through voluntary work, voluntary collection of funds, contribute to this. I think this is a healthy and good tradition that shows the important and positive aspects of the Norwegian people's soul, which we are going to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1229	I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries signals that there may be opportunities for closer cooperation and better coordination on predictability and stability of the Rescue Company. Otherwise, I agree with the Council of State that voluntary action is a healthy and good tradition that is of great importance for the operation of the Rescue Company in combination with public funds. The fishing industry is one of the most important industries we have. It is and will be a base for future growth and value creation. In view of the recruitment of the fishing industry, it is important that the large community be able to demonstrate satisfactory arrangements in terms of safety and preparedness. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Can the Council of State consider looking at the rescue service more collectively, so that it becomes the best possible, and look at the rescue helicopter service, see if there can be arrangements to take joint responsibility for a good, coordinated function for both services?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1240	I agree with the representative that the fishing industry is one of the pillars of the coastal community. I also agree that it is important that the big community shows that this is appreciated. Similarly, it is important for local communities to be able to express the same thing through all the local layers of the Rescue Company. You can still do that through the Rescue Company. Of course, this will be done with regard to the possibility of looking at an overall review of the preparedness. The question will also be answered later today regarding another part of this, but the total we have to get back to at a later time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1250	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The Directorate-General for Fisheries in the Nordic region has been led by a shared administration. Svolvær has been the head office of control and operations, while the overall administration, at the head of the region, has been located in Bodø. This scheme has worked satisfactorily. Now the Ministry of Fisheries is proposing to add the entire business to Bodø. A secret report should probably conclude that centralisation to Bodø will cost 4 million. extra kroner per year. years. What is the rationale for centralising the business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1259	Initially, I would like to note that the secret report it is referred to is not known to me or to any of the employees in the department. I can therefore, of course, not relate to the amount mentioned. The Fisheries Guidance Service and the Control Office were merged on 1 November 1998 into an external agency for fisheries management. At the time of the merger, the outer edifice was divided into nine regions. Each regional office consists of two sections, the business development and planning section and the supervisory and control department. In Northern Ireland, the regional office is geographically divided into two, with the regional director and the food development and planning department located in Bodø, while the inspection and control and laboratory department is located in Svolvær. The system has proved to be less fortunate for several reasons and shared solutions are more expensive in experience due to the need for overlapping administrative skills and capacity. The consideration of employees, the need for coordination of regional management and a more optimal response to the entire external sector require a meeting of the management of the regional office in Northern Ireland. It will be considered later to also move the rest of the supervision and control section to Bodø. The lab will stay in Svolvær. The choice of Bodø focuses on the geographical and communication central location of the Agency in the region. The need for interaction with other public agencies and business organisations, as well as an expected relative increase in aquaculture production and value creation, where the activity is spread throughout the county, suggests such a location.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1274	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am a little surprised when the Council of State points out that the system has worked poorly with a shared administration. At least I'm not familiar with that, and that's a new information. A further new disclosure is that it is the employees who have been pressured to achieve this centralisation. I'm very surprised to hear that here in this room. When the Council of State does not know that there is a report that concludes that centralisation is becoming more expensive, there must at least be money to earn from centralising. It could be nice to find out how much profit it is in centralising, because I strongly doubt the other two reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1283	When the current guidance service was established, the situation in the fishing industry was significantly different from that in which it is currently established. It was then natural to place the establishment where the fishermen were located and how important fisheries were. This is not the situation today. We have important business in Lofoten, right enough, but also in other areas. When you say that the scheme works badly, it is because you need a coordinating function one place in relation to other proceedings and in relation to the county municipality, with which you work closely. When one says that the employees are pushing, that is not what has been said, but it is the consideration of the employees and their ability to do a satisfactory job in relation to all the contact points that you have, that have been highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1292	I note that the Minister for Fisheries is very concerned about the staff. Then my immediate question is: have the employees asked for this, or is it the Council's overall father's role here to really show that the employees do not understand their own situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1297	I want to repeat that when I talk about the relationship with the employees, it's their ability to do a satisfactory job for the region you're in, and for the rest of the county. In general, it has been concluded that the guidance service is as well structured as possible, with strong regional offices. It is difficult for me to see that Nordland should have something special to profit from not doing the same thing as in other states, creating one strong and good county administration. I think there is still a need to streamline this service. We still have too little capacity in many contexts in the regional offices to handle a relatively large amount of business, which comes not least from the aquaculture sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1312	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1318	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘Tautra Ramsar area in North Trøndelag is at risk of being destroyed as an international bird reserve. A roadmolo must be opened and a bridge built. If this project does not receive State support, it must be scrapped. Does the Government consider that the bird reserve can maintain its Ramsar status if the bridge project is scrapped?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1327	Tautra with the Swaet nature reserve and bird-rescue area was peaced at kgl. Resolution of 14 December 1984. Due to significant protective values, the area was included in the list of wetlands with an international protection value under the Ramsar Convention in 1985. In the years of the area's peace, existing flooding between Frosta and Tautra has proved to be a barrier to the natural current conditions in the area. The Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Transport therefore agreed in 1997 that existing road flooding should be replaced by new bridges to prevent disruption of the natural flow conditions in the area. The cost estimate for the bridge project was estimated at 30 million in 1997. kr. Later, it has been found that the initial estimate of costs was too low, and new calculations show that the price tag of the wedding project will amount to a minimum of 42 million. kr. Per. Today there is a budget of 6 million. The budget of the Ministry of the Environment and the Nord-Trøndelag is 3 million. kr each. This is consistent with the cost allocation originally made. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to find coverage for the remaining sum of at least 36 million. kr, and it will not be possible to realise the project in 2001. The responsibility for this type of action and its resources has now been transferred to the county municipalities. The Ministry of the Environment has received an enquiry from the Secretariat of the Ramsar Convention asking Norway to consider including Tautra with the Swaet in Ramsar's Montreux Record, a register of Ramsar areas requiring special attention due to negative changes in the ecological status of the areas. There is little doubt that Tautra with the Swaet nature reserve and bird sanctuary qualify for inclusion in this list. As a result of changes, such changes include: recorded a significant decrease in the bird population in the shallow water area. In addition, the molo has resulted in predators reaching Tautra, so that the population of ground-breaking birds is significantly reduced. On this basis, the Directorate for Nature Management will ask the Ramsar Secretariat to include Tautra with the Swaet nature reserve and bird sanctuary on the Montreux Record. The long-term status of the area will depend on future possibilities for the wedding project to be realised. I will ensure that environmental management follows developments in the area carefully in the time to come, so that we have up-to-date knowledge of the ecological status of the area. This is important in relation to our commitments to the Ramsar Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1342	Governments have explained the unique nature reserve that exists here and how important this area has been. Norway has given high status, and it has been recognised as a Ramsar area. I also listened to what the Council of State said, that there is no money here in 2001. I also understood that it would not be in the future, and that she would therefore ask to put Tautra on the Montreux list. This shows that the Workers' Party is unable to have an environmental profile, yes it is in fact a follow-up to the Workers' Party's lack of environmental profile, and it is a defeat for the environment that we end up there. At the same time, this case shows how difficult it is to coordinate the various departments responsible here. So I ask the question to the Council of State: What lessons does the Council of State draw from the Tautra case, and what action will the Council of State in the future take to ensure that no greater damage is done than those already done?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1351	Since the wedding project became so much more expensive than initially planned, it has not been possible to carry out the project so far, nor is it economically feasible to carry out the project this year. In the future, we need to assess the possibilities for the implementation of the bridge project. We also need to monitor the development of the area in order to see how the natural values of the area can best be achieved. I still see that we have opportunities through the work of the Directorate for Nature Management. It will also be important to work across sectors to resolve such issues as this one. There is a work that the Government will follow up on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1358	The Council of State must be commended for being honest that this is an environmental degradation in the sense that we are reaching the Montreaux list. The State Council of Natural Resources says that it will be appropriate to weaken Norway's reputation significantly if, because of this case, we end up on the Montreaux list of countries that do not fulfil their international environmental obligations. That's what the State's Natural Management Council says in a letter to the Transport Committee dated October 20th. It merges into the missing environmental profile of the Government. Does it now mean that the Council of State said that one would follow up further, that the Council of State has not given up funding in later years than 2001? And does the Council of State also think that only by monitoring the situation is it possible to save the bird reserve at Tautra?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1363	I remember that this is not a new case, which is coming up now. This is a matter which started in 1997, and in the previous years the relationship has just been that the project has been planned in a way that has been unrealistic in the sense that the costs of the project far exceeded what was planned in the budgets. Now, however, we are in the situation that we are making progress, and it suggests that for this year it is not possible to implement the project. I want to look at various possibilities in the future to follow up this matter, both in relation to the bridge project and in relation to monitoring the area on a professional basis, in order to ensure the natural values that exist in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1371	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Coastal rescue facilities have been built up recently and are at risk of further deterioration for the next year. This uncertainty is exacerbated by the steady postponement of the notified rescue helicopter mission. Will the Council of State ensure that the notified Landfill Communication is provided as soon as possible and that the reduction of coastal rescue preparedness is taken up in its full width?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1380	The notified staging message on the rescue helicopter standby is in progress. The purpose of the notification is to send the Size of the Spring Session. Once this work has taken time, not only for the sitting government, but also for the government of Bondevik, this has, among other things. the consistency between the administrative and economic implications of making changes to the rescue helicopter service and the rescue helicopter standby. In other words, it's a challenging job. Another element that comes in is that a joint joint bid for helicopters is under way in the Nordic military cooperation project. The rescue service is involved in this work to ensure that the service can be strengthened in the long term by a possible joint purchase. This work, which is now in a closure phase, may have an impact on the rescue helicopter service and therefore assessments relating thereto should also be described in the notification. But I also want to stress that we do not have a crisis in rescue helicopter preparedness. Since 1973, Norway has had a good rescue helicopter service. There are 11 Sea King helicopters on four fixed bases along the coast. In addition, one is placed on Rygge. Sea King is a specially equipped marine rescue machine. At least one machine is in high readiness on each of its bases for exclusive use for the main rescue centres. All the machines have undergone a major modernization programme. The main rescue services also cooperate closely with the rescue services in our neighbouring countries, where helicopter assistance can be requested as needed. Helicopters from civil companies are also requested by the main rescue services, if necessary. In 1996, the rescue helicopter service was strengthened by two newly purchased helicopters. Furthermore, it is invested in new operational equipment for the main rescue centres for approx. Twenty million. kr. This will include, inter alia: be invested in an operational calculation programme to facilitate the detection of missing persons at sea. In addition, we are now working towards a co-location between the coastal radios and the main rescue centres in order to improve coordination through the management of maritime rescue operations. It is important to me that we use all available resources in our society to get the best possible rescue service. For this reason, in these days, we are setting up a sample to review the overall rescue and preparedness resources in the country, with a view to making even better use of existing resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1393	Thank you to the Minister of Justice for your answer. The rescue helicopter committee conducted the rescue helicopter service in 1996, followed by a NOU in 1997. In this context, a number of improvements have been proposed, and these improvements and services in general, the size of the population is obviously not addressed until the aggregate notification is submitted. There is widespread concern for a degraded rescue service, and Norway, with its long coast and great activity along the coast, where tens of thousands of people each day have their work, deserves the best possible preparedness and rescue service. Pending the notification, I ask the Council of State to consider the following immediate measures: Can the Council of State do things to reduce the response time of rescue helicopters from today's 1 hour to 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1398	I can join much of what Kongshaug's representative said. As regards the issue of reduced response time, this is one of the important questions in the communication. It also has major economic and administrative implications, because reduced response time to 15 minutes, as it appears, will lead to the need for training of a group of new personnel, which in itself takes two years. In addition, there will be a need for quite large investments on the existing bases because, among other things, this. requires accommodation on the bases, which also needs to be realised before a response time can be reduced to 15 minutes. There's some reason why this is a bigger challenge than you would immediately think.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1408	Often, there are resources to improve arrangements. Often it's also about organization. And one can get the impression that responsibility for the rescue services in Norway, and on the coast in particular, is not clearly assigned to one department. The defense does not have a rescue service as its main task, nor does the Ministry of Justice, as I see it. I am pleased that the Council of State mentions the importance of looking at a coordinated service, and at the various parts of the rescue services in the context. The question then is whether you should not see together the entire Norwegian rescue service, including the rescue skates and the rescue helicopter service and several others. Can the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that the Government looks at the rescue services collectively – I actually perceived it this way in the initial answer – and clearly places the responsibility of a special department, which thus has the primary responsibility for the overall rescue service?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1415	There's really a lot of things happening at once in this area right now. We have had the Vulnerability Committee, which we are going to follow up on very concrete terms in relation to the individual proposals, but there will also be a big message of preparedness and security. And we have the rescue helicopters. But if we're going to be able to promote a message about the rescue helicopters alone in the spring session, I don't think we're there to deal with everything that has to do with the rescue service. In addition, we put down a sample to look at the overall rescue and rescue resources involved in the rescue services – the police, the fire services, and not least civil defence – to see if we have organised this properly. There's a lot of elements here, and one of the challenges is on the one hand to be able to make progress in things, while at the same time seeing everything in context. And we're really trying to do both of these at once. Therefore, I can only say for the time being that we are trying to see it in context, but that both the follow-up to the Vulnerability Committee and the message about the rescue helicopter service will bring us further into getting a good overall rescue service in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1425	I have a question for our Honourable Minister of Justice: ‘The problem of recriminalism and the fight against drug markets with more use of violence is spreading to more and more local communities, including in Eastfold. In Ashim it is felt that the gangs are growing, drug trafficking and fighting are going on in full transparency, with no consequences. The inhabitants are startled by evolution, feeling powerlessness. What measures will the Government take to reverse this negative trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1434	Violence and drug crime, which are often associated with criminal gangs, are issues to be given high priority by the police, both in terms of prevention and criminal proceedings. This is clearly said to the police districts and special agencies in the department's management documents and in other ways. This priority is also reflected in the 2001 action plan of the Sarpsborg Police District, which also specifically addresses the fight against such problems as in Ashim, linked to the accumulation of food facilities and night-time kiosks. The police district was awarded four posts through the revised national budget and has allocated them two to Askim and two to Eidsberg for, among others. to strengthen the preventive order service. The police district has also been granted exceptional means of combating organised crime, linked to the establishment of a criminal motorcycle gang in the district. Criminality in organised forms must be pursued in order to hit the backmen and further contribute to the disintegration of the gangs, among others. using new and more effective instruments, such as increased access to withdrawal. Another important instrument is better coordination and efficiency of police districts, Ecocrim and Kripos. There is now a separate Council for the fight against organised crime in which those bodies participate together with the higher prosecution authority. Furthermore, I mention that Oslo State Attorneys have taken the initiative to increase prosecution efforts against organised recriminalism through their own project. The organisation of the project shall be in consultation with the local police departments. The organisation of criminal proceedings against reprisals and reprisals, as well as the withdrawal of profits, are essential elements of the project in order to succeed in the objective of disintegrating and significantly weakening threads. Oslo police districts have been particularly affected by repeat crime and are following up on multidisciplinary projects. The keywords here are close follow-up and zero tolerance to the threads. I would also like to highlight the Action Plan on Child and Youth Crime, which was discussed in the Stortinget in June. This is known as an overall plan of action and measures to combat crime among young people. This extends over a wide field and also deals with the fight against reindeer crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1447	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where she listed a number of measures. Nightfalls in the Ashim have made considerable efforts to make these problems known to the population and to politicians and decision-makers. They have shown great concern about the increased number of people and organised drug sales. The municipality has really grasped this in Ashim. You don't want this unculture of which you can now see the contours to get stuck, you have sought specialist help to address the problem, etc. But it is clear that each municipality has limited resources. What is the opinion of the Council of State that the municipality should and should give priority to maximising the overall impact of the various measures, in order to achieve results, when we see developments as worrying as they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1454	I believe that we have municipalities with local people elected to rule precisely because it is the municipalities that are best suited for themselves to assess how to handle problems that arise locally. But I'm going to think that one of the most important things the municipality can do is to get a good cooperation between all the resources that are in the municipalities and that have the task of working in relation to young people. These include school, child protection and youth, and not least their good cooperation with the police. That's what I'm assuming they have. If the municipality does not have a good cooperation with the police, I expect to be informed about it in order to contribute from my point of view to the fact that this cooperation is good, which I really assume is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1459	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. She came into any of the core of this. As evolution is the way it is, you have to look at new things. She listed a number of matters the Ministry of Justice is now working on and is responsible for. But as a summary, I would like to say that it is clear that closer cooperation between the individual municipalities and the police and the department, professionals, is very important, as some municipalities have insufficient resources and lack of experience and knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1466	I do not have much to add to what the representative Hedstrøm said. I think it made sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1474	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the first half of 2000, there has been a worrying increase in reported violent crimes, in particular physical damage in general, damage to the body by a knife and threats to the knife and firearms. If these developments are to be stopped, additional efforts from the police and society are to be required. What will the Council of State do to ensure good career opportunities and in other ways reward the fact that more police are choosing to continue in outbound street service, which is vital to the survival of the increasing crime of violence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1483	A combination of measures is needed to mitigate the development of violence and to ensure that experienced police officers choose to stay longer in outbound street service. Service lists and career opportunities need to be made available to make best use of resources, while taking action to redeploy out positions for outbound service. I see it as particularly important to exploit the expertise of experienced police officers and women, for the purpose of combating crime outright, among other things. by patrol and street service. It is therefore important to facilitate local arrangements for services that contribute to closer cooperation between older and younger officials. But in addition, it must be recognised that it is important to use older and experienced police officers and women in many areas of the police. They are requested not only in the case of street services, but also in the case of investigations. It is a challenge with the large number of newly trained police officers and women that we have received in recent years, because it has led to a large proportion of young police officers in Norwegian police and perhaps especially in Oslo, who have gained 170 new posts together in a short time. Ageing varies from district to district. However, within each police district, internal recruitment and recruitment procedures must be required to ensure a balanced age structure. Both the general problem solving and not least the active street conflict resolution require younger and older policemen to work together. Alternative career opportunities have been developed through the creation of posts as a specialist and a police specialist. In fact, few of these positions are linked to traditionally uniformed police work, but this needs to be further developed, inter alia. in cooperation with the employees. All officials in the operational and outsourced police service shall participate in the Liaison Offices. A system of back-up services where the police are called upon when necessary is in the process of being replaced by common watch lists between several cooperating county councillors. This contributes to more uniform and experienced policemen in active service at times and in places where violent crime or other crime can arise in experience. In addition, a number of police stations have gradually introduced common watch lists in which investigators also participate in the outbound and operational service, particularly on weekends. This contributes to bringing different experience and age together in a common problem solution. This cooperation between prevention and investigation needs to be further developed. More flexible watchlists, which also take account of the individual’s own and family needs, could also be an action that could help to increase the number of experienced police officers in the street. However, it may be a burden for many to serve at night. This applies in particular to older officials and women. Studies show that night shifts themselves become more stressful the older they are. The criminal environment has also become harder. Good physics is required in addition to experience and insight to resolve conflicts and prevent crime. So there are many older policemen who want other jobs with less patrols and fewer calls. I believe that the transition to framework budgeting will also be an important instrument for resource management in relation to local crime challenges. The Ministry has also established a agreed local wage policy, and one is in the process of delegating wage bargaining powers to the police officers. This may allow police officers to assess local wage measures in their efforts to achieve a good, balanced age mix in the various types of police tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1504	I see the Council's response as fundamentally positive by stressing that jobs can and should be redefined, career paths should be assessed and service arrangements looked at. I'm fully aware that outside of the largest cities there's an all-round situation. My question is basically inspired by experience over many years – and I repeat many years – in Oslo. It's my impression that younger people come here, and after a while they seek their way away and go to other places in the country, or they disappear into an office. I see, in relation to the crime of violence in Oslo, in particular recriminalism, that it becomes a special challenge, because it loses the minimum of continuity that people with experience can share it with others. So I want to ask the question: will the Council of State especially look at the situation in Oslo, where there is great recruitment, but also great penetration in these positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1513	Yes, I think that might be reason. I would also like to mention another measure that the Ministry of the Interior is marketing in relation to the police districts. It's that newly-trained people are put into research for a short period to begin with, so that they can draw that experience out when they go into the public service, if necessary. It is also an instrument that can to some extent perhaps be marketed to the Oslo police district. However, it is important to bear in mind that police department management needs to have an active and responsible relationship with this topic, because this is clearly a management task. But that we have to be concerned about helping Oslo police districts remember this element and try to get it done, I agree with the representative of Dørum in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1520	Of course, both the Council of State and I are fully aware that the role should not be played either by a police director or by the police department. But it is that in parts of the country the challenges are a little special. My experience in this area has been gained over a number of years. There are many capable people in this big city, but it is – because, among other things, it is. It is quite difficult to live here, especially if you are young — a tendency to move more easily. It is also true that, perhaps through service lists and in other ways, more exciting and attractive tasks have been stimulated, while street experience itself is over a certain period of time that creates the continuity that, among other things, creates. the prevention service in Oslo has been structured in an exemplary way in the fight against recriminalism. So I just want to emphasize that this is being taken up in appropriate forms, and has nothing to add beyond this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1528	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘Climate gas emissions and climate problems are increasing. And we can now not spend a lot of energy and time discussing gas power plants that are not being built. In Norway we find about 25 000 heat pump systems. It's as many as it's installed in Sweden every year. When we know that there is a potential of about 25 TWh, there is now a need to speed up the installation of such installations. What has been done by the Council of State to increase the use of heat pump technology, and, if so, may he intend to oblige the owners of Natural Power to do something?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1537	I agree with the representative of Langeland that we in Norway have been too little good at using heat pumps in the energy supply. We have a great potential to use the heat in the rock and in groundwater and seawater for energy production. Increased use of heat pumps will have a major ejac-effect and thus be positive for the environment, while streamlining power consumption and contributing to a more versatile and flexible energy supply. As I see it, there are in particular two elements that have prevented increased use of heat pumps. The one is low profitability for heat pumps with today's electricity prices. The second is traditional behaviour and lack of knowledge among potential users. This means that we have to meet the challenges with a variety of different tools. Research, information, marketing and financial support are the main elements of the use of the instrument today. We have a good research environment on heat pump technology in Norway. A more efficient and inexpensive solution and the use of more environmentally friendly cold medium will be sought. Through the regional ax-centres and through the added value driven by government, NVE, there is a commitment to market the use of heat pumps, among others. by increasing the knowledge of end-users. Government budget resources are also used for an investment aid scheme for heaters based on environmentally friendly energy such as bioenergy, waste heat utilisation, district heating and heat pumps. One of the main problems is, as I was in the past, low pay for heat pumps with current prices of electricity and oil. So in the state budget that has just been presented, the government is proposing to increase the electricity charge and the fuel oil charge. This will make a monthly contribution to improving the profitability of heat pumps and other environmentally friendly heat production, and is therefore an important tool for increasing the distribution of heat pumps in Norway. I would also like to mention that the Government has warned us that we want to create a private body to work with efficient energy use and increase the use of environmentally friendly energy. Reorganisation will result in a more targeted bet & bet; reorganization help to stop the use of heat pumps in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1554	I thank you for your answer. I record that the Council of State avoids the last part of the question that is asked in relation to Natural Power, but he will probably be able to come back to it. One of the main points from the government council is this with pay. And then it must also be a point when the state companies are in and out of the force of nature, that the profitability in it has not yet been seen, despite the fact that we have spent tens of millions trying to get gas power plants that it does not seem to be anything of, but still hold on, while one does not care that there will be a proper investment in heat pump technology and alternative renewable energy. It is also a little strange when Statkraft actually says that it is not necessary to build gas power plants. It is important to get involved with these companies in order to get to another offensive initiative in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1561	I have to say that I believed this was a question about heat pumps and not a kind of discussion about whether gas power is good or not. I'm not going to help start that debate, but I'm going to say that the state hasn't spent any money on generating gas power. It is in spite of all the private actors or companies that have done it. And I'm assuming that the reason for the effort they've made is that they believe they have a chance to spend money on a long-term basis, and not least they have the ability to contribute to the electricity we need. When it comes to Natural Power, they have to comply with an allowance system at some point. This allowance system will also make it profitable to have a different and more efficient use of heat pumps. So I'm assuming that that system will eventually come into place and will be involved in that, for example. gas power plants will be more involved in the use of heat pump technology than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1568	The reason I brought out the force of nature was with profitability. It's right as the council says, it's not the state that's in there losing money on the force of nature, but it's state companies that are in there losing money on it. And the state at the General Assembly Aksensen allows this to happen, while he does not care to get a proper investment in alternative renewable energy and in heat technology. Many parts of the Energy and Environment Committee have now been out at the VVS collection in Sea Lights. The industry is very ready to get an offensive on heat pump technology, but lacks more incentives from the state. And this is where the challenge lies before the Council of State. What will one now do more specifically to reduce the budget when it comes to alternative renewable energy, and what would one want to do to speed up the use of heat pump technology, which actually has monthly amounts of TWh?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1575	So Norway has left the theory that the state is best governed by the dictates of the state council in question, linked to our state corporations. So Langeland and I are some of those who say that there is an untapped potential in Norway for heat pumps, and that one should use that technology to a greater extent than today. But I want to remind you that it's only been a half year since the Storting treated the energy message, which took care of the energy use in Norway until 2020, and the government's attitude in general is that we want to follow up what's in the energy message. It is in a way the guidelines for the policy we are pursuing in this area. And so it's like we're now proposing a new body to re-grow the idea of new renewable energy sources, and I'm assuming that this will give us a more efficient use of the funds used by the state in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1591	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1597	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1600	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Church, Education and Research the following questions that I understand will be answered by the Minister of Oil and Energy: «I St. pp. No 1 writes the Government that in the case of construction in the area of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, a first priority will be to start construction projects at the University of Eastfold and the College of Stavanger. [[1999 - 2000]] Is this Government standing by this priority?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1609	The Storting asked in Budget-inner. S. No 12 for 1998-99 at the time, the Government presents a case of building needs in the university and higher education sectors. The case was explained in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000, and the following priority was given to the then government: ‘When the economic situation so permits, the Government will give priority to the start of construction projects at the Østfold High School and the Stavanger High School in the fields of the Ministry of Education, Education and Research.’ I can confirm that this government will also give priority to the construction projects at the University of Eastfold and the College of Stavanger only when the economic situation permits the start of new projects, so in other words, I can confirm that it is the same priority that is attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1619	I would first of all like to thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I have an additional question, and it goes on that the chapter division in this area is now slightly changed. And I hope then that the answer is as it was given, that this applies to the area priorities of the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, and not only to the higher education sector, but also to the university sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1626	I have to admit that as this is another Council of State's responsibility, I have limited detailed knowledge. But the main thing in my answer was that the priorities that the previous government laid down were also the basis for this government's work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1631	Then we go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1637	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘The City Council has temporarily stopped progress in Bærum municipality’s plan to establish care services for the elderly in Spain. Both the House Bank and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have opened up to grant the project. Many municipalities want to cooperate with the municipality of Bærum. When will the Council of State give its final consent to improve the provision of care to the elderly and increase freedom of choice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1646	We know that staying in a warm climate has a beneficial effect on some of the suffering that some older people have. Staying in such a climate can contribute to an increased quality of life for this group. When I have expressed my skepticism to expand care beyond the borders of the country, it has been linked to three relationships. The aim of the Elder Plan is to develop adequate care for sick and nursing old people in all the municipalities of the country. Furthermore, it should be possible to supervise public care for the elderly. Finally, we also know that contact with family and friends is important for many older people, especially when they get sick. In the State budget, the Government has proposed to extend the framework of the old-age plan so that all municipalities can reach the goal of the initiative. It has been important for me to ensure that the development of projects outside the borders of the country will be a complement for those who benefit from such an offer. I am therefore in favour of municipalities being given the opportunity to use the old-age plan’s financial instruments, primarily in connection with the construction of short-term residence units abroad, provided that the conditions laid down in the legislation are met. The offer shall be included as part of the municipality's overall care and care activities and ensure sound services. The Ministry of Justice’s legal department was asked to assess the legal aspects of providing services outside Norway. They conclude by letter of 28 July this year that some legal matters should be further investigated. This work is in progress, and I can no longer see that these conditions prevent the House Bank from dealing with the applications in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1655	Let me thank you for your answer and express my pleasure at the fact that the former scepticism of the Council of State is no longer an obstacle to giving a green light to the municipality of Bærum and other municipalities that want to realise a care offer in the South. I am pleased that the Council of State has agreed that this will help to increase freedom of choice and will also improve the quality of life of older people – that is what must be at the heart. I note, however, that the Council of State stresses that she will be in favour of short-term stays first and foremost. Then I would like to ask the Council of State if she sees that there are clear limits to the offer that the municipalities should be able to make. I think we can agree that the issue of supervision is important, but I just want to clarify whether there are many men related to this, and whether you want to make more restrictions for municipalities in terms of length of stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1662	There won't be many men in relation to the rules that already apply. Nevertheless, I am concerned that short-term stay is the easiest thing to do in relation to both monitoring the offer and the need for the different municipalities to notify me in any case. Although I am not going to deal with Bærum’s application – it is actually the House Bank that is going to do – I have been in contact with Bærum municipality both in the summer and now, and as far as I know, it is mainly short-term places that they intend to expand. So at least this would meet their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1667	Let me first express my joy at the fact that the Council of State places emphasis on dialogue with the municipalities. I think it is important, especially in an area where the municipalities have a significant responsibility, that they show great trust in the municipalities, and that the state is more concerned with creating opportunities than making restrictions for the municipalities when making an offer to the elderly. I have recorded that the government council of the press has stated that there will be a clarification from the department within a few weeks. I'd like to ask the Council of State if it's correctly perceived, or if she sees for herself that this could take longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1674	Regarding the time aspect that has been reported in the press, I said not in a few weeks, but in a few weeks, to be sure not to promise more than I could keep. But the House Bank can process these applications now. There are some legal issues that are still clarified and made clearer. They will not be clear for a while yet, but there is nothing in the way that applications can now be processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1679	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-25.ana.ud415e1688	There is no record.
