ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e34	At the request of the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e43	It is an overall committee that supports the legislative changes proposed in the copyright law and in the law on the levying of the public performance of performers. CNN had a longer report last night where American record companies, artists, producers and others were at the conference in Congress on how the Internet could threaten the ability of the record industry and the artists to make dollars or dollars on their works of art. The issue we are dealing with today will ensure that Norwegian and European artists are paid for performing their copyrights, whether they are in discos, in lifts, in shops or – most importantly – on radio and television. The new thing is that consideration is now to be paid for all public performances, not just broadcasting. So it had to be an EU directive to put this in place in Norway. The Committee endorses together the proposed amendment to the copyright law which ensures the remuneration of performers and producers for public performance. The members of the Right and the Progressive Party note that Norway had a time limit of 1 January 1996 for the implementation of this legislation. So four years have passed, and Gramo has pointed out in his statement that their members have lost up to 120 million. kr on the delayed implementation of the rental directive. The Act on the Fee for Performing Artists’ Performances, or the Fund for Performing Artists, is also proposed to be amended. The Committee stresses that the levy on non-protected sound recordings is a peculiar scheme and is not directly related to the amendment to the copyright law. The fee has a cultural policy justification. In the case of remuneration-to-fee relationships, an overall committee points to and strongly emphasises that payment of remuneration under the copyright law is payment to performers and producers for the use of sound recordings. The Committee also stresses that the imposition of a levy on non-protected sound recordings should not be at the expense of the remuneration of protected sound recordings. The right-hand party believes that the fee to be charged to the Fund for Performing Artists should give approximately the same revenue to the Fund as it currently does. The majority, all without the Advance Party and the Right, believe that the fee and remuneration should be equal, in order to avoid broadcasters choosing non-protected music for economic reasons. This is a line of reasoning in which the Right Party and the Advance Party disagree, because we believe that evolution shows that, for example. a commercial public broadcaster that P4 has increased the spillage of protected music, i.e. Norwegian and European music, strong in the last years – from 35 pst. in 1993 to 61 p.m. in 1997, i.e. during a period when they have not paid any kind of fee for playing so-called non-protected music. We believe that this shows that the broadcasters don't choose music based on what they have to pay for, but they actually choose it based on what kind of music fits into the channel's profile. With regard to the collection of fees and charges, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of all members of the Workers' Party, stresses that it has taken note that Gramo is currently collecting remuneration for protected sound recordings carried out in broadcasting. Gramo has built up a comprehensive database and possesses the necessary skills to distinguish protected and non-protected audio recordings, which provide a good starting point for ensuring the collection of both remuneration and fees in the broadcasting area. The majority would also stress that Gramo himself must have a decisive influence on who is going to claim Gramo's remuneration. The remuneration is an actual payment to operators and producers for the performance of their own sound recordings. The Fee to the Fund for Performing Artists is the payment for non-protected sound recordings carried out by operators outside the scope of the Lease Directive and is thus, as previously mentioned, a cultural policy conditional charge which is specific to Norway. The majority assume that close cooperation between Gramo and the Fund for Performing Artists should be ensured in order to maximise the effectiveness of the collection, while at the same time allowing users to relate only to one collecting body. With regard to the composition of the Board of Directors of the Fund for Performing Artists, the majority, all except the Workers' Party, believe that one should strive to reflect the interests of the artists and that the Board, which currently consists of four persons, should be expanded in order to better meet this. The Workers' Party has put great emphasis on the King and the Department to take care of this, and that the Stortinge should preferably not interfere. I find the Workers' Party's particular comments somewhat strange and as a desauvuration of the Storting's ability to influence policy. To be honest, I think the two special remarks from the Workers' Party are suitable to arouse wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e75	It is an extended decision to be taken today. For the last few years, we have called for the changes that are being made today, and there is no doubt that this should have been done a long time ago. But the central government had to spend a few years doing this, even though that's not a difficult thing at all. Now, on previous occasions, Stortinget has issued a statement on matters that, of course, will also have an effect on this case. Finally, we get a system of fees and charges that equates Norwegian culture with foreign culture and, above all, American culture. And not to trick ourselves, it's also good to say that this is essentially about music. Now the statistics show that the proportion of so-called protected music has actually increased despite the fact that it is more expensive. But now that we're equalizing the music, we're removing the economic differences, and we're thus stimulating more use of Norwegian and protected music. And it's time for jam! In Norway, we have put a lot of emphasis on the collective arrangements, and for the Workers' Party, it is an independent point to maintain them. It means that we have to be careful with the grips we're doing, because we're probably also balancing with some international demands. Not least, we have a challenge in the further WTO negotiations to be able to maintain these systems. Then it is important that we, as politicians, have tongues in our mouths and do this in good understanding with the industry. If not, we'll probably have problems maintaining fund schemes in general at some point. The remuneration is in many ways the remuneration of the music industry, and the determination of this is their responsibility. So it's important that we set the fee based on the fee, and not the other way around. Nor shall the fee be at the expense of the fee. In this way we can also see that both the Gramo and the Fund will receive more funding for cultural policy. Then it is also important to remember one thing: Broadcasters, radio stations, discos and others who will be covered by this will have to pay both fees and fees. It is clear that these still have to deal with one collectible as before. It gets the intruders to find solutions, based on what's their advantage. And I assume that you don't start building up parallel systems for recording fees and fees. I think that's a misuse of public funds. The music industry has experienced very big changes over the last decades. There has been a struggle to try to equalise the musical expressions, where quality is what should be at the center, and not as an attempt to keep some expressions down, because quality has increased some genres and is even better today than others, without this being expressed in official Culture Norway. We see that those who were able to survive from the market today have experienced technological changes that eventually make it more difficult and more difficult, not to say impossible. This means that they also have to be applied more strongly gradually, for example. through the changes we are making today. This will be important to follow-up in the future too, so that we have the opportunity to stick with our own artists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e90	The Progress Party considers that the primary objective of the draft law according to Ot.prp. No 15 for 1999-2000 is to guarantee the rightholders, i.e. performers and phonogram producers, remuneration income on the basis of the copyright system of the copyright law. It has been the starting point when rules have been in place to give operators and producers the right to remuneration for the use of sound recordings in broadcasting and for the retransmission of Norwegian and foreign broadcasts. This establishes framework conditions allowing operators and producers to obtain income based on the use of their own performance. It is a clear prerequisite for the continuation of the scheme of Fee to the Fund for Performing Artists that the levy shall not entail any reduction or cutting of those natural remuneration revenue. The Fund for Performing Artists is a culturally motivated fund scheme. The fund was established by its own law in 1956 to provide performers with some compensation for secondary performances of their performances. The background was that live performances of music were more and more replaced by sound recording. The activities of the Fund are governed by the Fund Act. The Fund scheme is collective in the sense that the means of charging are not allocated in proportion to the actual use of the performer's performance. The breakdown is carried out on an application basis. The funds of the Fund are used to support performers who live and work here in the country and for the production of admissions with their achievements, but under the law in force, support may also be granted to survivors after performing artists. The fund receives its revenue mainly from the levy for the public performance of sound recordings of performances of performers, such as: discotheque music performance. In addition, a smaller proportion of the fund’s revenue from the levy obligation for the transfer of sound recording is added to the re-audio-fasting. According to the proposal, the intention is to reintroduce the charge for the use of non-protected audio recordings in broadcasting ‘to offset price differences between protected and non-protected audio recordings in order to prevent distortion of the repertoire’. Today a two-track system applies: Gramo collects remuneration according to the copyright law § 45b for the use of sound recording in broadcasting, which corresponded to approx. 43 million. kr. in 1997 and allocates remuneration funds individually after actual use. Fund for performers receives income from taxable activities under the Fund Act, which corresponded to approx. Eighteen million. in 1997, and allocates funds for purposes such as recording support, scholarships, further training, travel and training activities and concerts. While the fund law imposes a charge on the use of all sound recordings, Gramo can only claim remuneration for sound recordings which are subject to the copyright law, i.e. admission protected by the rules on the protection of related rights in the copyright law and the Rome Convention. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the levy should be at a level which gives the Fund approximately the same total revenue as it currently enjoys. The Party is concerned that the broadcasters responsible for paying this fee are not subject to an excessive burden when introducing a new fee. For this reason, there should be no direct link between the level of the charge on non-protected music and the remuneration on protected music. The part of progress indicates that the proportion of protected audio recordings in the NRC has remained stable since 1990. The progressing party has noted that Gramo is currently collecting the remuneration for protected audio recordings carried out in broadcasting. Gramo has built up a comprehensive database and possesses the necessary skills to distinguish protected and non-protected audio recordings, which provide a good starting point for ensuring the collection of both remuneration and fees in the broadcasting area. The party wants Gramo himself to be the sovereign in terms of who is going to claim Gramo's remuneration. The remuneration is an actual payment to the performers and manufacturers for the performance of their own sound recordings. The Fee to the Fund for Performing Artists is the payment for non-protected sound recordings carried out by operators outside the scope of the Lease Directive and is thus a cultural policy contingent charge which is specific to Norway. The Progress Party considers it natural and desirable that the levy itself be entrusted to the organisation that is required to collect the remuneration under § 45b. In the light of this practice, there can be no obstacle to the transfer of the Fund for Performing Artists to others. Rules under which the remuneration of the performers and manufacturers is required under § 45b of the copyright law, in this way to be managed through a State fund, would be unfortunate and in poor conformity with the remuneration law required by the EC Directive. However, as already pointed out, close cooperation between the organisation and the fund is assumed as regards the practical management of the enforcement of the right of remuneration and the obligation to pay fees. In order to facilitate the coordination mentioned above between the organisation which collects the remuneration under § 45b of the copyright Act and the Fund for Performing Artists, Section 2 of the Code of the Fund Act on the appointment of the Board of Directors of the fund should include rules requiring that the said organisation or organisations which are most representative of categories of rightholders whose performance is applied to the sound recordings covered by the fee obligation should appoint members of the Board of Trustees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e118	The decision taken today to implement Article 8.2 of the So-called Lease Directive will mean a substantial conversion, both of the remuneration scheme for performers and producers of sound recordings. It is established that these have a fundamental exclusive right to broadcast and other transmission of the performances they are behind. This includes the right to a fair remuneration when their sound recording is carried out publicly. We note with satisfaction that there is broad agreement within the Committee on the proposal submitted. This has been well explained both in the vote and through the rapporteur's posts in the Chamber today. Wide agreement has also been made with the Government's proposal to maintain a levy on the Fund for Performing Artists for the public performance of so-called non-protected sound recordings and to extend this charge to the use of non-protected sound recordings in broadcasting. The rationale for this has been cultural policy, as it is underlined. The Fund for Performing Artists includes, inter alia: played an important role in creating new artistic talents, and we believe that this scheme will be able to function in the future as well. The difference in relation to this has not been in the establishment of the charging scheme as such, but at the level of the levy, or rather in the determination of the basis for the charging and, secondly, the extent to which the size should express an opinion leading to the organisation itself of the collection of the fees. Furthermore, there has also been some disagreement as to whether the Storting should give leadership in the composition of the Board of the Fund for Performing Artists. From the Christian People's Party we have been clear that the charge on non-protected audio recordings must be at the same level as the remuneration for the protected recordings. It must be seen as an important cultural policy task, as far as possible, to prevent any incentive for those performing audio recordings to opt out, for example. Norwegian or European music and instead play American music because it gets cheaper. Objections have been raised with regard to, inter alia, the new scheme. broadcasters, who fear that the new remuneration and charging scheme will be very expensive for those paying. It is important for the Ministry of the Future to follow these developments closely and to have this in mind in the context of the further development of the framework conditions of these media. In the case of the leads of the majority vis-à-vis the collection system and the composition of the board of directors of the fund, it must be allowed to claim that the objections of the Workers' Party have a slight effect on the hair. Firstly, Gramo's role today as a collection body is undisputable. Gramo must, of course, have a decisive influence over the collection system itself. And secondly, if some conditions were to change, for example: that Gramo must change the structure or be replaced by others, there is nothing, as far as we can see, that should prevent the ministry from reconsidering the matter. The fact that the scheme also requires close cooperation between Gramo and Fund for Performing Artists is equally obvious. With regard to the composition of the Board of Directors, we cannot see that we, as the majority, go much further in our remarks than the Workers' Party itself seems to suggest in its own particular comments. It is natural that the Board of Directors should have a different composition when the formation of the Fund changes. And that it should best reflect the interests of the artists is not unnatural either – since the board does not have more members either. It is still the department's responsibility to decide this through regulations, but Stortinget also has an interest in following developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e137	As you know, the odelstningsproposition underlying this case was promoted by the previous government. The proposals contained in the proposal are supported by the current government. I would like to point out, at the outset, that it is proposed to continue the system of a separate fund for performers, a cultural policy system which has been of great importance in this field since its introduction in 1956. So there is already a broad political agreement on the continuation of the fund scheme. It is gratifying for me, as Minister of Culture, that the entire committee has joined the proposal to continue the Fund for Performing Artists. The background to the Ministry of Culture's draft law in Ot.prp. No 15 is Norway’s obligation to implement the EU Lease Directive. The Directive provides that performers and phonogram producers shall be entitled to a fair remuneration when their sound recordings are carried out publicly. Today, in Norway, we have such an individual right of remuneration only in the case of the transmission of protected sound recordings in broadcasting. Other public transmission of sound recordings is subject to a charge to the Fund for Performing Artists. The Fund provides support to performers irrespective of the extent to which their sound recording is carried out publicly. The implementation of the Directive takes place through an amendment to the copyright law, so that the right of remuneration covers all public performance of protected sound recordings. Protected sound recordings are Norwegian sound recordings and sound recordings associated with countries that Norway is legally obliged to protect. The individual remuneration scheme for public broadcasting was introduced in 1989 by the copyright law § 45b. A similar scheme was not put in place for other public carry-overs because it was difficult to obtain reporting systems that could ensure a proper distribution of remuneration. Technological developments have improved this situation so that more than ten years ago, remuneration can be allocated according to actual use. It is then reasonable to put in place a system that allows individuals to be paid for their efforts. The Fund for Performing Artists will then be financed by a levy for the public transmission of non-protected sound recordings. In the broadcasting field, this is a reintroduction of this fee, for other public transmission a continuation. Attention has been paid to the fact that payments for the public performance of these audio recordings will prevent a distortion of repertoire choices in favour of non-European music. At the same time, the levy makes it possible to maintain a fund scheme that contributes to the emergence of new talents and supports the activities of performers in areas that are commercially not the most interesting. By providing for such interaction between the copyright law and the fund law, the proposal takes account of Norwegian culture, both through the individual and collective regime. At the same time, our obligations are fulfilled under the EEA Agreement. The Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs shall state its position on the relationship between remuneration and fees. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the proposal in the motion for a resolution that the level of fees should be equal to the level of remuneration. I agree with the Committee when it stresses that the imposition of charges for non-protected sound recordings should not be at the expense of the remuneration for protected sound recordings. The proposed scheme is likely to result in an overall increase in the cost of public sound recording. It is important that a system of both fees and charges does not impose unnecessary administrative obligations on users. Like the Committee, I am concerned that the consideration of users is taken into account in the collection of fees and charges. It is necessary to establish cooperation between the organisation responsible for collecting remuneration under § 45b and the Performing Artists’ Fund, so that users only have to deal with one levy for both remuneration and fees. I have noticed that a majority of the committee has clarified that the Gramo organisation, which has been approved under § 45b of the copyright law as regards remuneration for public service broadcasting, must have a decisive influence on who is going to collect Gramo's remuneration. The Ministry will, of course, take this into account when consulting and designing the regulations. As I know the Norwegian producer environment and Norwegian performers, I feel confident that there will be constructive cooperation. Everyone will be interested in contributing to the maintenance of greater diversity and the development of new talents. I have also noticed that a majority in the Committee believes that the Board of Directors of the Fund for Performing Artists should be expanded in order to better reflect the interests of artists. This will also be taken into account in the consultation and design of the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e163	It's going to be a string shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e166	I want some more clarification from the Council of State regarding the composition and size of the Fund for Performing Artists. In a majority of comments from 1998-99, from the Labour Party and the SV, the majority consider that this fund: ‘should endeavour to reflect the interests of the artists and that the board of directors, which currently consists of four persons, should be expanded in order to better respond’. Will the Council of State intervene and arrange for the majority decision to be complied with? Does not the Council of State think that where the financial resources come from also need to be more reflected in who will get them back? What I mean by this is that the musicians, who account for a very large part of these means, should get more channelled back. Does the Council agree that Gramo should be able to claim its own remuneration?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e176	The Ministry will, of course, take the position of the Committee on the Extension of the Board of Directors in order to safeguard the interests of artists, as I have already said. I have no problem recognising that the Board of the Fund for Performing Artists is supplemented by a representative of the performers. I then see it as quite reasonable that it is Gramo who is going to collect the compensation in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e181	I am very pleased with the post the Council of State now made, where the Council of State so clearly stressed that she would follow up the observations of the majority. It's very positive. I was very surprised when we got these special comments from the Workers' Party presented on the table the last day, when we were going to give the cancellation. Things that I thought we agreed on were suddenly thrown into the air, and this became complicated. In particular, there is one remark from the Workers' Party which is proportionate to this with the representation of the Governing Board: ‘This issue should remain a regulatory matter and these members’ – i.e. the Workers’ Party – ‘contravene that, on the part of the Committee, there should be some leadership in the representation of the Board of Directors in a fund financed by a public levy’. I think it is reasonably strong that one in a note states that this should not interfere with the Storting at all. The reason is that this is a fund financed by a public levy. Ergo shall not decide on the use of public charges by the Storting! It is so surprising that the Workers' Party could make such a comment, that I would like to ask that the Council of State actually say something about whether she supports this remark from the Workers' Party, because it goes quite far in desavuing the role of the Storting relative to being able to influence cultural policy. I ask the Council of State to clarify what the Workers' Party has actually meant in this matter. It is good that the Council of State now refers to the majority of the Storting and supports it, but this note does not give good warning of further cooperation between the magnificence and government if it is such that it is preferable for the Enlarged Committee to avoid interfering with what the Ministry may think at any time. That can't be the way we're going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e192	I can only stress what I have already said, that I fully respect the fact that we have to deal with a majority remark from the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e197	There's something about the history here that maybe the current, and also the former, Minister of Culture has been a little hard to see. Because I was also very surprised by the comment that the Workers' Party made, I thought it was unnecessary. But then, in a way, the representative Bredvold cat escaped from the sack – to use that expression – when, in his reply to the Council of State, he referred to a majority comment from the Committee in its position on the 1999 budget. And then I see that you might have a need to write that comment from the Workers' Party, but it was completely unnecessary. The Council of State is quite right to follow up a remark, of course, on the part of the Department. I just want to use this opportunity – and it is not necessary to get a reply once – to say that the link between this comment and what happened for the 1999 budget year is not covered – at least with my support. I see the comment that I am making here as a clear support for the proposition that we are dealing with, and I think it is reasonable for the Ministry, when appointing a government, to take into account the interests of the artists. Other leaders aren't on my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e206	Then the line chord change is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e211	This is in a way a slight extension of what has been the content of the debate until now, and it is in the majority's comments on the composition of the board. I record, of course, that the Council of State has now for several rounds here said to the Storting that of course she should respect this and base it on her further treatment, and that it should be consulted, etc. Now we have experience from this big deal that the bureaucracy and the ministry have not been so willing to follow up majority comments from this room. That was the case with the previous government, and I notice that it is the same setting in this government in relation to the comment that is pointed out here. I will challenge the Council of State to confirm a stronger expansion of the board of directors and Gramos' responsibilities in relation to the collection of remuneration, that it is now in a more strengthened way expressed by the Council of State. And I also want to challenge the Council of State in relation to this with the board of directors and extensions there. Can the Council of State say anything about the composition of the Board of Directors, if not in a way that is now allowed to reflect more closely on the practitioners who contribute income to the Fund? Now it's like one group contributes 70 pst. of the income of the fund, another group of 23 pst. and a third group with 3 pst. And as the board has been, and is, complex, it is the minority group in which, in a way, has had the control of the funds as well. Will the Council of State now follow the intention set out in this note and ensure that the Board of Directors has a composition reflecting the practitioners and the organisations providing the Fund's revenue? Furthermore, I would like to challenge the Council of State in relation to who will sit on the board, because it is clear that in previous governments there has been a tendency for instability. It's a small environment, and there's a lot of people who know each other in relation to those who sit on the boards. It could be roommates, spouses, family, etc. That stays on both sides of the table. Will the Council of State now see to it that we have a government that is totally haphazard in dealing with the assets of the perpetrators?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e220	I have tried as hard as I can to express respect for the majority comment that the board of the Fund for Performing Artists should be expanded with a representative of the artists. I have also said in my post that it is the organization Gramo that must have a decisive influence on who is going to get Gramo's remuneration. As far as the rules of sustainability are concerned, we are all well aware that we live in a small country, how many people know very much, but I have full confidence that the governments of both organisations follow normal rules of stability in allocating funds to the activity that this has been highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e229	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e237	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e330	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e338	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-26-lower.ana.ud1596e347	There is no record available.
