ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-03.ana.ud1723e148	In accordance with Fundamental Law, the King gives this message to the Norwegian State and Government in the run-up to the last message. The Government Declaration, presented to the Government in March of this year, drew up the guidelines for the work of the Government. A major objective of the Government's foreign policy is to take more active care of Norwegian interests in the new Europe. At the same time, the Government will strengthen Norway's commitment to the fight against the global poverty problem. Norway has an active co-responsibility for development in Europe. Our political, security and economic interests are closely linked to the future of Europe. The EEA Agreement is the basis for the relationship between Norway and the European Union, but Norway must also decide on new areas of cooperation and cooperation processes within the EU. Enlargement of the EU to the east is an important building block in the work on peace and stability in Europe. The government is intensifying the development of a European security and defence policy and a strengthened European capacity for crisis management. The government has therefore agreed to help with both military and civil resources. At the same time, it is important to further develop our good transatlantic contacts. Norway has taken an active part in adapting NATO to the new security policy situation in Europe. The crisis management in the Balkans, in particular the peace operation in Kosovo, has called for much of the political and military resources in the alliance. Norway is a major contributor to the NATO-led KFOR team. It is decided that Norway should have the KFOR Headquarters leased for 6 months in 2001. Furthermore, it is open to constructive development of the relationship between NATO and Russia in favour of European security and stability. In other areas, the positive developments in the cooperation relationship with Russia have continued. There has been even two-sided contact on matters of common interest. In cooperation with Norwegian neighbourhoods in North-West Russia and the Baltic region, emphasis is placed on strengthening the public health system. The fight against infectious diseases that show increased spread is particularly focused. Negotiations on agriculture and services have been initiated at the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the WTO. The government has taken an active part in establishing the basis for a new, comprehensive WTO round of negotiations. Norway has joined the revised OECD Guidelines for Multinational Companies. The government has worked to step up the fight against poverty, among other things by helping to safeguard children’s health through an effective vaccine supply. The GAVI Global Vaccine Initiative is an important new instrument and the Government will contribute $1 billion over 5 years. The government also stresses the importance of giving greater weight to HIV/AIDS work and improving coordination of the various instruments of Norwegian development assistance. The economic developments in Norway have been good. The economy is characterised by high capacity utilisation. The euro value has been fairly stable. This year, Norway Bank has set inflation rates at 1,50 percentage points to 7,0 pst. The value of oil and gas exports increased last year by 36 p.m., mainly due to higher oil prices. The first seven months of this year, the value of oil and gas exports has increased by 109 pst. in relation to the same period last year. Participation is now at the highest level that has ever been measured. 71 pst. of all persons between 16 and 74 years of age are in work. In 1999, unemployment remained stable compared with 1998, but was lower than in 1997. A selection that discussed long-term employment and value creation strategies presented in June. All the main social organisations have been represented in the selection. Population grew by over 33 000 people in 1999. It's the largest growth in the population registered since the first half of the 1950s. Almost 60 pst. the increase in the population last year is due to net immigration. The government has started working on a public sector innovation programme focusing on the following: stronger user orientation, transfer of resources from administration to service provision and from sectors with declining needs to sectors with increasing needs and increasing efficiency of resource use at all levels. In the process of renewing the public sector, the follow-up to the distribution of tasks is central. Furthermore, efforts to reduce state detail management are important. The Government has proposed a plan to incorporate and liquidate ear-marked additives and to continue the testing arrangements with consultations between the State and the local government sector. For 2000, real income growth in the municipal sector is expected to be 2 pst. The growth of activity has been particularly high in health and care for the elderly. A project report on barriers to electronic communications legislation was presented in June 2000. Work on the necessary legislative changes has been started. The government has just presented a proposal for the law on electronic signature for the Storting, which will have much to say in electronic commerce, reporting and document handling. It is agreed that IT Fornebu Technoport will be commissioned to develop the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. The company for industrial growth – SIVA – shall represent the country of the ownership and development companies of Fornebu. Sjukehusa has been strengthened through the proposed hospital economy and budget for 2000. The government has provided a comprehensive communication on the implementation of the action plan on care for the elderly, which was adopted in 1997. From 1 July 2000, fathers have been entitled to birth and adoption money based on their own ignition regardless of whether the mother has lit up correctly. The decision now is what the mother does after birth or taking care of it. In 1999, 5300 kindergartens were established. At the turn of the year, there were about 62 pst. of all children aged 1 to 5 years in kindergarten. In order to increase the expansion in the current year, incentives have been introduced for new sites. An action plan has been presented for the reform of competences and a competence development programme has been implemented. The reform will be developed in close cooperation with business partners. It is agreed that adults should be entitled to primary and further education and that the decision applies from now on in the fall. The government aims to implement the rule on the right to primary education for adults from the autumn of 2002. In the context of the wage settlement this year, the Government agreed to give teachers a paylift. This will ensure better recruitment. At the same time, changes were made to the working time rules that will lead to greater flexibility and better use of the teacher’s annual work. The open international architectural competition for the new opera house was concluded in June, and after considering 236 proposals, the jury agreed to award the first prize to the Norwegian architects' office Snøhetta. The government is well in the process of implementing the debt reduction plan in poor countries. The first one-sided Norwegian debt write-offs have been adopted, and several initiatives have been taken to improve and streamline the international debt settlement mechanisms. A large deal has been reached at international level on intentions and instruments. However, when it comes to funding, there are considerable problems. In September, the UN organised a summit in connection with the millennial shift in which a searchlight sets out what is needed to strengthen cooperation around the World Organisation in the years ahead. The government participated in the five-year reviews of the International Women’s Conference and the Social Summit. The importance of good governance, access to work and social services and a gender dimension in all development activities are all very important. HIV/AIDS, work standards and child labour are key challenges that the government is following. The government has given humanitarian aid high priority. The construction of bridges between short-term emergency aid and resilient development assistance has been strengthened. The pressure on humanitarian aid budgets has been stronger this year than it has been for a long time. There is reason to fear that the trend towards more and more widespread natural disasters will continue. The government has also given high priority to the promotion of human rights, the values of the rule of law and democratic institutions. Norway ratified the Statute of the Permanent International Criminal Court in February and has taken part in the work of the United Nations to establish the Court of Justice. The government wrote on 13 June this year under the two new additional protocols to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. One about children in armed conflict, the other about the sale of children and child prostitution. Protocols are an important tool in strengthening rights for children. Norway closed the Presidency of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe [[OSSE]] Norway has provided monthly support for measures to promote peace, democracy and reconstruction following the Balkan war. The government has therefore also taken an active part in the work of the EU-led Stability Pact for South-East Europe. Norway became a full member of the Pact in June of this year, and was also responsible for hiring out work on security issues. Norway's involvement in the Middle East peace process has continued. On 2 November 1999, a memorial was held for the late Prime Minister Yitzak Rabin in Oslo, where the President of the United States, the Prime Minister of Russia, the Prime Minister of Israel and the President of the Palestinian Self-Government Powers participated in addition to a large number of politicians from the region. The work on presenting Norway abroad through press, culture and information measures has been a high priority. In order to increase knowledge of the foreign, development and human rights policy of the Government, several information measures have been implemented in relation to the Norwegian community. The government has led an active Norwegian policy to find international solutions to global environmental issues and to a world-wide resilient development. Important tasks have been the international work for legislation under the Kyoto Protocol and for legislation and new protocols under the Bio-Maturity Convention, including the conclusion of negotiations on the Protocol on trade in genetically modified organisms. Norway has launched a new five-year environmental cooperation with South Africa with a total economic framework of 60 million. krones. Norway wrote in December 1999 under a new protocol to the ECE Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. The new protocol will result in significant reductions in long-range air pollutants causing acidification in Norway. Norway has taken an active part in international energy cooperation in the International Energy Agency (IEA), in the European Energy Charter (ECT) and in cooperation on energy in the Barents and Auster sea regions. The government, in consultation with other oil exporting countries, has implemented measures to regulate production in order to stabilise the oil market and the oil price at a reasonably high level. Measures were lifted with effect from 1 July this year. The operating balance vis-à-vis the rest of the world showed a surplus of $79 billion in the first six months of the year, against a surplus of $5.4 billion at the same time last year. Exports and imports of traditional goods increase individually by 15.2 pst. and 6.9 pst. the first seven months of the year, compared with the same period last year. The external trade balance for mainland Norway thus showed a deficit of 35.8 billion dollars in the first seven months of this year, against a deficit of 41.5 billion dollars in the same period last year. Norway's net claims on the rest of the world increased by $73.9 billion in the first six months of the year and were estimated at approximately $206 billion at the end of June. At the end of the first six months of this year, the market value of the investments of the petroleum fund was nearly $305 billion. The value of oil and gas exports was 161.4 billion in 1999. That's 36.4 pst. higher than the previous year, which is primarily due to higher crude oil prices. The first seven months of this year, the value of oil and gas exports has increased by 109 pst. in relation to the same period in 1999. For the first seven months of this year, the export price of crude oil was 228 kroner per year. average. That's 111 pst. higher than the first seven months of 1999. Exports of fish and fish products are growing steadily. In 1999, fish were exported for $29.8 billion, of which the aquaculture industry accounted for about $12 billion. New security policy challenges, increasing efficiency and material requirements require extensive defence changes. In this context, a number of recommendations have been put forward by the Defence Policy Committee and the Defence Manager, among others. This year the Storting has been dealing with the Government's message to adapt the Defence to take part in international operations. A broad political deal is being made to set up an effort force for international operations. The defence implements extensive investment in new material. The purchase of five new frigates is an important contribution to maintaining a credible defence with the ability to safeguard Norwegian sovereignty and meet future security policy challenges. A repurchase agreement has been concluded in connection with the frigate purchase that guarantees Norwegian industry important tasks. The informal Ministerial meeting in Bergen in September this year, in which more than 20 Environment Ministers discussed Rio+10, sustainable energy, strengthening international environmental cooperation and climate issues, was an important step forward towards the next major United Nations Conference on the Environment, which will take place in 2002. Norway has worked actively in international organisations and administrative regimes to ensure sustainable use and management of marine resources. Control cooperation with the EU has been strengthened in the last year by the conclusion of cooperation agreements with more than one EU country. We now have separate control agreements with most countries around the North Sea. In addition, Norway and the EU have, with effect from 1 January 2000, implemented mutual satellite tracking of fishing vessels. A corresponding agreement has been concluded with Russia from 1 September 2000. Negotiations have also been initiated with the coastal states in question, in order to establish an administrative regime for coal. In the context of the fight against international illicit trade in cultural goods, proposals have been made to accede to the UNIDROIT Convention on cultural objects or objects carried out illegally and on the necessary changes in cultural monuments, etc. The index of consumer prices increased by 3.5 pst. from August 1999 to August 2000. The average growth in the consumer price index in the first eight months of the year was 3.0 pst. compared with the same period last year. The production of electricity in 1999 was 122.6 Twh, an increase of about 5 pst. from the previous year. Production was about 8 pst. higher than can be expected in a year of normal rainfall. Gross domestic electricity consumption was 120.8 Twh last year, an increase of 0.2 pst. from the previous year. Exports of electricity were for the first time last year since 1995 higher than imports. The export surplus was 1.8 Twh against an import surplus of 3.6 Twh the year before. The government continues its efforts to transform energy use and energy production and continues its efforts on new renewable energy sources and natural gas in domestic energy supply. The government announced St.meld in June. No 39 on oil and gas activities. [[1999-2000]] In the message, the focus is on the particular competitiveness of the continental shelf, as well as the debate on internationalisation of the business, the gas market, oil prices and the environment. Health, environment and safety in the oil and gas industries are mentioned separately. The production of oil, gas and NGL on the Norwegian continental shelf was 227 million in 1999. Sm3 oil equivalents, against 223 million. Sm3 last year. The production of crude oil, including NGL and condensate, decreased by 0,2 pst. and the production of gas increased by 9,2 pst. The total production of the first seven months of the year was 140 million. Sm3 oil equivalent, increase of 8.5 pst. in relation to the same period last year. Investments in oil business amounted to $69 billion. There's a decrease of 12 pst. relative to the very high level of the previous year. The work on the 2000 problem was a major challenge in 1999. As a result of a comprehensive and coordinated effort by both public and private actors, the transition to the new millennium went without any significant difficulties. After the tragic accident with Sleipner, a major effort has been made to strengthen safety at sea. Some measures are already implemented and some measures are still being taken. Norway is working internationally to amend, inter alia, the requirements for life jackets. The main segments of international shipping have shown significant market improvements. The number of Norwegian registered ships over 100 gross tonnes has fallen slightly in 1999. The number of Norwegian seafarers added to Norwegian ships registered in the Norwegian International Ship Register, increased by 3.6 pst. from 1998 to 1999. The number of Norwegian seafarers added to ships registered in the Norwegian Ordinary Ship Register has increased by 5 pst. during the period. Maritime transport is the most environmentally friendly way of transporting goods, and this mode of transport has increased to 25 pst. of the total domestic freight transport. The number of guest house days at the hotel and similar accommodation places increased by 0.6 pst. in 1999. In the first few months of 2000, there has been a slight decrease in the number of guests at Norwegian hotels. In St.meld. [[1999-2000]] No 15 Profitable and competitive tourism industries are being thoroughly reviewed by industry. Last year, domestic passenger transport increases by 1.1 pst. from 1998. The passenger car had about 76 pst. of the carriage of passengers. Total freight increased by a total of 1,1 pst. from 1998. For road transport, the increase from 1998 was 1.3 pst. Domestic road traffic work was 32.9 billion vehicle-kilometres last year, representing an increase of 2.0 pst. from 1998. Investments in road installations in 1999 amounted to 11.9 billion kroner. For operation and maintenance of the national road network, 3.4 billion kroner were used. In total, around 123 900 new and used passenger cars were registered in 1999. The sales of passenger cars went down by 12.2 pst. in 1999 compared with the previous year. At the end of 1999, 2.3 million were recorded. cars in Norway, which is an increase of 1.8 pst. from the previous year. In 1999, 11 764 people were injured or killed in road traffic, of whom 304 were killed. There are 46 fewer people killed than in 1998. A total of five people were killed in aviation accidents. No one died in a railway accident in 1999. In the collision at Åsta station on the Rørosbanen on 4 January 2000, 19 people were killed. Despite substantial investments in noise protection along national roads, noise pollution remains unchanged or has increased as a result of traffic growth. Minor use of peak tyres and vehicle and fuel requirements introduced has resulted in a reduction of the local air pollution associated with the transport sector. Air traffic, measured in the number of passengers arriving and crossing Norwegian Airports, showed an increase of 5.8 pst in 1999. from 1998. For the first four months of 2000, the corresponding passenger figure is 1.5 pst. lower than in the same period in 1999. The surplus at the Aviation Agency was last year, 419 million. $890 million. 1998 crowns. In the operations of the Aviation Agency, i.e. outside the main airport at Gardermoen, a total of 781 million were invested in 1999. Aerodrome network and air navigation service crowns. The Civil Aviation Disaster Commission was established on 1 July 1999 as an independent administrative body under the Ministry of Transport. In 1999, passenger traffic with NSB BA was the highest ever in the nearly 150-year history of the company. Freight traffic also showed growth from the previous year. In addition, NSB BA is in good repair with an extensive renewal of all passenger trains, both within local traffic, between distances and long distance. In 2000, there were two major accidents affecting the railways in Norway: at Åsta and Lillestrøm. Both the State Railway Authority, the Railway Agency and the NSB BA are systematically working to improve road safety in order to restore confidence in the railway. It is agreed that ownership, obligations and operational responsibilities of the infrastructure of the Gardermoban must be transferred to the railway station. At the same time, a refinancing of NSB Gardermobanen AS was agreed, with a conversion of State loans of 669.5 million. the capital of the company. For 2000, it's worth 500 million. kronor of investment measures in the road, in order to facilitate incubation trains on the South, Bergens and Dovrebanen. By means of an advance agreement between the Railway Agency and the NSB BA, 70 million have been advanced. kronor for investments in the roll-over train measures on the Eastfold Railway and the Kongsvingerbahn. In 1999, Norway BA had a total turnover of approximately $13 billion. The pretax result was a surplus of 622 million. krones. Postbanken AS was merged on 1 December with the Norwegian Bank ASA. The ownership role of the State of the single bank is retained by the State Banking Insurance Fund. Competition in the telecommunications market is increasing. The telecommunications regulators have, among other things, acknowledge that Telenor AS must allow competing providers to operate the fixed subscriber lines in the telecommunications network. In addition, concessions for third-generation mobile communications systems are announced and the concession award will take place in the autumn of 2000. There is also an overall review of the regulatory framework in the field of telecommunications with a view to adapting to rapid changes in the market and technology. The effort to merge Telenor AS with Telia AB was interrupted towards the end of 1999. It is agreed that Telenor AS should be partially privatised and introduced on the stock exchange in order to develop the company on both the Norwegian and international markets. The State shall have a share of 51 pst. in the company. The partial privatisation does not lead to any change in the scope of the social obligations imposed on the company. In the agricultural negotiations between the state, Norway's Bondelag and Norwegian Bonde and small-scale farmers, a new negotiated solution was not negotiated. The government made a proposition for the Storting based on the offer from the state in the negotiations. The State and the Norwegian Reinbriftsamers Landsförbund were agreed on a new reindeer management agreement. The agreement is based on the fact that conditions relating to the regulation of the reindeer are not covered by the reindeer management law. St.meld. No 19 About Norwegian agriculture and food production was discussed in Stortinget in the spring of 2000. [[1999-2000]] The notification and treatment of her in the United Kingdom provide guidelines for agricultural policy in the future. The emphasis here is on the overall social benefits of agriculture in the short and long term. The emphasis is on a holistic policy covering the whole value chain and increasing consumer orientation of food and agricultural policies. After Stortinget discussed St.meld. No 17 Value creation and environmental opportunities in the forest sector in 1999 have been the subject of a 5-year value creation programme for the use and processing of wood in 2000. [[1998-99]] The revised veterinary agreement with the EU has ensured that the legislation on imports of live animals and products has been transposed. No infectious diseases have been detected as a result of imports. Unfortunately, the EFTA Surveillance Authority has had a lot to point to during inspections of border inspection posts. There has been a lot of work on following up the inspection reports from the Norwegian side. The situation of bottom fish stocks in the Barents Sea is alarming. The same is true of cod stocks, which are assessed to be below safe biological limits. The stock of solders north of 62o N and the population of Norwegian spring-gowning herring are in good condition. The mackerel population is growing as a result of a common management strategy between Norway and the EU. The stock situation of North Sea herring has improved as a result of a multi-year management strategy agreed between Norway and the EU. Norway and the EU have for the first time been a few on management strategies for cod, hay, whiting and sailing in the North Sea. There is an important step forward in ensuring a high and stable long-term efficiency of these populations. In April, the government issued an opinion on the amendment of the Law on the Breeding of Fish, Crustaceans, etc., which was adopted by the Stortinget in June. In June, the government presented an odelsting proposal on the Law of Sea Pasture. As part of the effort to facilitate the exploitation of the value added potential of the aquaculture and fisheries industries, the Government has taken steps to develop long-term strategies for growth in the aquaculture industry. In negotiations between the State and Norway’s Fiskerlag in the autumn of 1999 on the grant of aid to the fishing industry, the two contracting parties agreed on an economic framework of 110 million. 2000 kroner. In the 2000 paycheck, there was a general audit pattern for most tariff areas. It provided the basis for the introduction of the 5th Ferive to be fully implemented from 2002 for those covered by the collective bargaining agreements. For the reform of skills, it was agreed to elaborate on the design of a support scheme for life support under educational leave. The tariff settlement was conducted in parallel between the central parties of the country and the municipality. In the State sector, it was concluded that the parties accepted the draft resolution presented by the Riksmeklingsmann. Key adjustment negotiations focused on the recruitment and competition situation of enterprises when it comes to higher education and long-term education and the situation in the school system. One has now been given the opportunity to conduct introductory local negotiations in the school. In the municipal sector, there were offences in the negotiations, and reported for mediation. Most of the organisations joined the presentation from the Riksmeklingsmann, which was presented on 20 May, but some associations went on strike. In several of these conflicts, pay terms have to be agreed at a later date. In this year’s discussions on pension regulation in the population, there was a consensus between the state, the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association, the Organisation for the disabled and the Landsorganisation of Norway on the regulation of the basic amount of social security as of 1 May 2000. In June, the State and the Municipal Council of the Central Association of Norway agreed with the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Physiotherapeutic Association and the Norwegian Psychological Association on new agreements for operating grants and tariffs for the operation of private practices with municipalities and county municipalities as of 1 July 2000. On 1 July 2000, it was opened for private employment services. At the same time, unemployment is now allowed in all industries. From the same date, the labour market seat offers various services for payment, among others labour hire, in addition to the free brokerage services. A working group of the parties has submitted the report ‘Location, one telephone number’. The report outlines a platform for the establishment of public service offices. The government has transferred parts of the property business of Statsbyggen to a newly created state-owned share company – Entra Property AS. Competition authorities carried out a total of 114 controls in 1999 to ensure compliance with the competition law and deal with 69 cases in connection with agreements or measures involving anti-competitive behaviour. In the same year, 85 applications for exemption from the ban were dealt with and 53 of them were granted. Many exemptions were granted to stimulate competition. There were 31 issues that were treated as blatant takeovers of enterprises. A total of 976 checks were carried out on whether or not the price markings were followed, leading to 587 incisions. Overall, the competition authorities carried out 6 price investigations this year. In June, the government presented an odelsting proposal for a new stock exchange law. The legislative proposal opens up to a greater degree of competition between the market places. In June, the government presented an odelstningsproposition with proposals for the Act on the Pension of Deposits in Working Conditions. One of the main objectives of the legislative proposal is to open up schemes that can be a real alternative to enterprises that have not created performance-based schemes and that more employees can receive supplementary pensions through their employment. The Ministry of Justice is in the midst of a comprehensive reorganization process to create a more efficient justice sector in which an increasing achievement of the objectives set is to be achieved. In addition to the reorganisation work, bottlenecks have been identified in the criminal justice chain, and several measures have been proposed to reduce the length of proceedings. The government has strengthened its efforts to combat violent crime. An action plan has been put forward to increase efforts to combat violence in the home, especially in the hands of children and women. The government has provided a big message with different options to change Section 100 of the Constitution on the basis of the distribution by the Freedom of Speech Commission. There is a proposal for changes in public law. Work on the legal basis for transparency in public administration is being carried out in the Public Health and Environmental Information Committee. On the basis of the government’s proposal, work on organised and other crime has been strengthened by new legislation on anonymous witnessing and the development of criminal law protection for legal actors. The government is working to improve the public justice system, and a big message has been made about this. The individual claims settled after the economic liquidation of the Jewish minority during the Second World War are now largely terminated. The main features of regional and regional policy were presented in our presentation to the Stortinget in the annual distribution by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. The new geographical area of action of regional policy instruments and the reduction of employers’ contributions were introduced on 1 June 2000. Conversion status has been established in several regions. The innovation and technology programme for North Norway has been continued for four new years. The INTERREG III programme is in the process of being launched. A selection is created to review housing policy. The government has taken initiatives for a more solid housing policy. Since 2000, the Sameting has been transferred to the Secretariat of the Sámi Education Council and to the Administration of the Sámi Special Library. It is created a private fund as a collective uprising for damage and injustice that research policy has inflicted on the Sami people. In 1999, Norway provided collective protection for some 8 000 Kosovo refugees. The situation of Albanians in Kosovo is now considered safe. The government has proposed that those who do not need protection return to their homeland. In 2000, there is a need to provide housing for about 9 000 refugees. So far, the municipalities have said that they are ready to accept about 5,000 of them. The government is concerned about the many people, including many children, who spend a long time in the reception of asylum. Work on reducing uptime has been started. A legislative selection has been drawn up to make proposals for legislation on support for newly arrived immigrants and refugees. There is a legislative selection to deal with a new law on ethnic discrimination. On 1 July 2000, responsibility for asylum interviews was transferred from the police to the Directorate for Foreign Affairs, while ending the system of detention centres in the asylum procedure. This shall enhance the legal security of asylum seekers. The government has taken the initiative to step up cooperation with the social partners on employment issues, particularly in relation to developments in the EU. In Ot.prp. No 67 briefs the Government of the United Kingdom on the co-ordination work of the Governing Boards in the field of health, the environment and security. [[1999-2000]] Changes in the control and reaction characteristics of eight supervisory laws have been proposed in order to achieve the best possible coordination and consistency of legislation, which makes it possible to monitor across different levels. The government has worked actively to gain better access to the beach sun. It is provided technical and financial assistance to municipalities. The Ministry of the Environment has sent letters to municipalities and counties with a view to tightening up the dispensation practices for construction measures in the 100-meter belt. A manual for removing illegal fences has been developed in the beach zone. The use of water snipers is prohibited and will apply on 1 January 2001. The government has taken steps to follow up the Coastal Son Protection and Use Warning Message in accordance with the treatment of the Storting Message. In May the government submitted an additional message to St.meld. No 8 The government's environmental protection policy and the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, in order to deepen and propose strengthening efforts in international environmental protection and the management of the wild species. [[1999-2000]] The additional information also provides an indication of how the Government has followed up the decision to convert the emission allowances to Natural Forces for Gas Power Plants at Kollsnes and Kårstø. The government presented in April a proposal for changes to the rules on the killing of predators that cause harm. New regulations on the management of large predators were adopted in June. The government has drawn up proposals for a closer delimitation of areas in which wolves should be able to establish themselves in couples and family groups. The proposal has now been submitted for wide consultation. The State's nature oversight has taken over the responsibility for the documentation of predators. A measuring station was opened in the New Ålesund on Svalbard in May of this year. It will be an important part of international monitoring of climate change and long-range transport of pollution. Seatesdal westhei Ryfylkeheiane, the second largest landscape protection area in Norway, is created. Experimental activities aimed at strengthening the municipal administration of motor traffic laws are under way in several municipalities. With effect from 1 May, child-restraint was extended to 18 years. The size of the population covers the Kinderhagen Communication in spring 2000, and important leadership was given to the future childcare policy. The government has recently proposed to change the party law. The change shall facilitate the conclusion of partnerships for persons with a weaker relationship with Norway than is currently required. The proposal will harmonise the Nordic Partnership Rules. The government has started to follow-up NOU 2000:12 on child protection in Norway. The proposal will be assessed in particular with a view to revitalising the growth rate for children and young people in general and increasing the number of vulnerable groups in particular. The government has presented an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency. The action plan shall be implemented over a period of five years. The primary part of the Action Plan on Forced Marriage will be implemented during 2000. Many of the projects are directed by and for minority groups and their organisations. By establishing the Forum of Democracy of the Government, the Government has been made aware of how to increase the participation and impact of children and young people in society. The government has proposed new law on the right of withdrawal and proposed changes to the marketing law. The laws will strengthen consumer protection at a remote hall and hall outside a fixed outlet. The Stortinge treats the Equalising Notice in the spring of 2000. The size mainly depended on the objectives, strategies and actions outlined in the message. Particular attention was paid to a more inclusive working life and a more social housing policy. Sick leave has increased in Norway in the last five years and is now record high. At the same time, the number of disability pensioners has increased. A public selection has addressed the reasons for the increase in absenteeism and for more people to receive disability pension and to assess the impact of treatment, rehabilitation and rehabilitation measures. The selection has also carried out a comprehensive assessment of measures and regulatory changes introduced in recent years and assessed any changes in the legislation that could lead to a reduction in sick leave and disability access. Pending this setting, the Government has initiated certain administrative measures to mitigate access to disability pensions. A shopping message about content and quality has been provided in the care services. The government has seen a reorganization of government responsibility for the prevention of drug problems in meeting the challenges facing one another in the field of drugs. Reorganisation means strengthening local and regional efforts in this area. Stortinget has passed a new pharmacy law. The law opens up the strictly regulated market we have today to competition and aims to ensure that the people have a well-defenced and widely available distribution of medicines. The Roadmap for Mental Health 1999–2000 will be followed up in line with the intentions of Stortinget, cf. St. pp. [[1997-98]] No 63 The Storting has recently adopted a new law that opens up for county hospitals to be converted into county hospitals. The promise opens for hospitals to become independent legal and economic units. A notification of emergency medical preparedness has been submitted. In the spring of 2000, the size has dealt with the legislative proposal on the fixed medical scheme. The Government intends to introduce the scheme from 1 June 2001. Responsibilities and tasks related to development, evaluation and information in primary and secondary education were gathered in the new National Centre for Learning and Development from 1 September. From the autumn of 2000, a lending scheme for textbooks has been established for further training. The scheme ensures that elephants in further courses receive free textbooks in individual subjects. In order to strengthen the training of linguistic minorities, the Centres for the Development of Competence in Multicultural Schools have been set up. Three public selections have provided settings for reforms in the part of the education system that goes beyond continuing training. This applies to training not covered by the Training Act, to the organisation of higher education and to changes in education funding. Follow-up work is in progress. In order to make the higher education system more flexible and to meet both the needs of society and individuals, universities and higher education institutions have increased their authority to set up and set up studies themselves. It's good for study places. On the main recording in the fall, 93 pst received. by all qualified space provision. Changes in the choice of young and minor adolescents have led to the unfulfilled provision of a number of study places around the country. It also applies in the area where there is a high demand for labour. At the same time, there are far more seekers than study places to study. Universities and higher education institutions have been given special means of conversion to enable them, among other things, to adapt their studies to the search. Steps have been taken to get more real-time teachers. Furthermore, a legislative proposal has been put forward to make it possible to enter higher education on the basis of real skills. Several institutions already carry out testing schemes. The government has presented a new action plan for information and communication technologies in education. [[ICT]] The number of people taking the doctorate at Norwegian universities and scientific colleges is still increasing. In particular, there has been a large increase in the female population, reaching 38 pst in 1999. The selection setting that evaluated measures for increasing R & D in industry [[Hervik selection]] In the context of the Revised National Budget 2000, the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund was increased by a total of DKK 1 billion. The return from the Fund shall be used to increase the Norwegian research effort. The widespread disintegration of the people's church is a foundation for the state church system. At the same time, the state church system has made it possible to keep an open, wide-open church. The growing self-government in the Norwegian Church has also taken place within a system of close relations between the state and the church. In recent times, however, several church-political issues have created a new debate on the relationship between state and church and on the church's identity as a people's church and a threat society. The Church Council has created a church-state selection, which will deliver the setting in the spring of 2002. Currently, no initiative has been taken for a public statement on the issue. The government has named a selection to work out and propose actions in the field of stage art. A big message has been provided on archives, libraries and museums and on building framework conditions in the field of culture. For the first half of 2000, three new venues for art and culture dissemination are open to the public. The Ivar Aasen Tuna in Ørsta is a new center for the dissemination of neo-Norwegian font culture. Villa Stenersen in Oslo is open to the public and should otherwise be used for varied cultural purposes. The Southern Art Museum in Kristiansand has new premises. A new incentive scheme has been established to strengthen local voluntary activities for children and young people in the cultural field. In the selection of the transition from 1999 to 2000, nearly one million people attended events initiated by the public. The Broadcasting Act has been amended in such a way as to allow it to lay down prohibitions on broadcasting television programmes which could seriously harm children and young people. There is also a legal home that ensures, as far as possible, that a large part of the people can receive broadcasts from important events, especially sports events, at no extra cost. Changes have been made to the rules of copyright on the remuneration of performers and phonogram producers for the public performance of sound recordings they have created. White mountain Alpine facilities are designated for national Alpine speed disciplines. For 2000, the share of the surplus from Norwegian Typing AS for sport is 812 million. krones. Of that, 408.9 million. NOK 287.5 million available for sports facilities. SEK 81.2 million for the Norwegian Sports Association and the Olympic Committee. SEK for direct benefit to work for children and young people in local sports and SEK 43.4 million. crowns for other sporting purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-03.ana.ud1723e484	received on behalf of Stortinget the documents read and stated: Your Majesty, Your Royal Highness! Your Majesty has today opened it 145. Storting. We go to our responsible work at a time that is still marked by unrest, uncertainty and unforeseeableness in many parts of the world. The outcome of the elections in Yugoslavia may give rise to optimism. But the situation is unstable, and if fundamental democratic rules are to be set aside, developments can easily become disastrous. Last week's confrontations in Israel and in the Palestinian territories have put the peace process to a more serious test than in many years. Extensive international efforts and cooperation will be necessary to prevent and solve many of the problems we face. For the Norwegian people, this is a major challenge and could lead to commitments beyond those we have already undertaken. The Storting will – as a representative of our People's Government – contribute conscientiously to this work. Otherwise, there is reason to look with optimism at the good cooperation climate and dialogue that is developing in relation to our neighbouring country Russia. The dialogue will include, inter alia: be important for the solution of the major and challenging environmental challenges in the northern regions. In our home arena, we have a lot to enjoy. The Norwegian economy is strong, output is increasing, and in most of the country unemployment is very low. However, the situation can easily change if we do not all show responsibility. In particular, contributing to the stability and predictability of economic policies will be a major challenge for the EEA. Within the framework of fundamental values, such as a willingness to share responsibility, solidarity and fair distribution, the Trottal shows that many important issues will be addressed. These are largely linked to challenges such as human protection, environmental protection and nature protection in the broadest sense. The fight against violence and crime and the promotion of mutual respect and tolerance between individuals and groups of people are of particular importance. The continued commitment to health and care, education and safe growth conditions for children and young people will require considerable insight and effort from all of us in the coming period. Furthermore, we will be faced with complex and fundamentally important issues relating to the best possible use and management of public resources. The same will be true in relation to the work on the conversion of the Defense. That's 145. Storing shall also address some important issues relating to its own proceedings. In the light of forthcoming recommendations from two large-scale selections, both the open consultation mechanism and budgetary procedures will be subject to a thorough evaluation in spring 2001. A third sample is in the process of assessing the working conditions of representatives. The recommendations of these samples will be dealt with mainly before the end of this grossing-up period. By 1 March 2001 at the latest, the Stortinget will be submitted for examination by the Commission for the Review of the Gardermout Building. This is the third investigation commission of the Grand Duchy has decreased in a relatively short period of time. The use of such parliamentary review commissions raises several fundamental questions and will naturally be one of the assessment themes to be addressed by the sample set up to investigate the control function of the Grand Duchy. The current harvest session will primarily be marked by the adoption of the 2001 budget. The parliamentary situation means that there can be a complex task that will make great demands both on the individual representative and on the Stortinget as a whole. However, I believe that, despite disagreement on many issues, we feel a shared responsibility to give the country a decent budget for the next year, and that it will be adopted within the framework of the budgetary procedure in the Grand Duchy. In the hope that the representatives will do their utmost to solve the many and big problems ahead of us, we gather in the old desire: God preserve the King and the homeland! The other members of the Storting replaced this desire, and all those present then sang the first verse of the federal song, «Yes, we love». His Majesty the King and His Royal Highness The Crown Prince then left the great hall, accompanied by the deputation that had worked at the reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-03.ana.ud1723e522	The President will propose that the speech of His Majesty the King and the report on the state and government of the kingdom be discussed at a later meeting – and consider it adopted.
