ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e45	The background to the proposed amendment is that the position of President of the Sametinget, which was established in the spring of 1990, appeared to be a permanent position in the State and that the holder of that position had to be regarded as a civil servant with the rights and duties of a civil servant. The President of the United Nations is, however, a political representative governed by the Rules of Procedure of the United Nations. This scheme has led to the fact that there has been no proper pension scheme for the President of the Sameting. This has been possible through the possibility for the Ministry to take a provisional decision. It has not been done, and the President is thus not currently linked to any special pension scheme through his or her duties. The proposition discusses different possibilities to sort out this relationship. The Committee supports the Government's proposal to establish a basis in the Law of Cooperation to provide a regulation laying down detailed rules for a separate pension scheme. The Committee also agrees that those who have served as full-time political representatives for 12 years are entitled to full-time pension in the same way as large-scale representatives. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that the retirement age is set at 65 years. However, the Committee has noted that the current administrative costs will amount to a total of DKK 130 000 per year and that these costs will be covered within existing budgetary frameworks. The Committee would point out that, on the basis of today's situation, where only the President and Vice-President of the Sameting are covered by the scheme, it seems quite manifestly unreasonable that the current administrative costs will amount to DKK 130 000 per year. The Committee has therefore asked the Ministry to assess the relationship between these costs and the extent of the actual administrative needs. The Committee otherwise has no comments and recommends a decision in line with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e62	The Progress Party has in Innst. O. No 4 joined a unanimous committee on this matter, which is an amendment to the Law of 12 June 1987. This amendment is intended to provide the Government with a basis for the joint law to provide for detailed rules for a separate pension scheme for the President of the Sameting and other ombudsmen and women. In principle, however, the Advance Party's clear position is that the Sameting should be closed, without, however, taking up that debate on this occasion. In this case, the Progress Party has first and foremost assessed the actual and purely factual issues, and sees this in the light of the fact that today's parliamentary majority on the Storting will maintain the Sameton. In these current circumstances, we therefore see little reason to oppose the views of the Government and the Committee on this matter, but nevertheless we have a certain need – even in this context – to clarify our purely principled position in relation to the Sameting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e73	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 74]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e87	The President would like to remind you that the rapporteur on the matter, Aud Gaundal, is a member of the Lagninget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e90	The issue that is being debated now is very much in agreement, and I should therefore just like to make a few comments on the amendments proposed in the law on the Norwegian State Husbank. This consensus extends far beyond the political parties in the Grand Duchy, since all the hearing bodies have generally stated that the proposals are considered appropriate and that ‘they are on time’. One of the proposed changes is the closure of the control committee scheme. This task will now become more prominent and part of the work of the Governing Council. Another reason for the setting-up of the Control Committee is that the control currently exercised is also exercised by other bodies. The Committee therefore considers that we maintain good control even if the Committee itself is closed. At a time when there is a great deal of focus on efficiency and simplification, the Committee also agrees that the asset information barrier for properties pledged in the House Bank will be lifted. It is also proposed that there should be a legal framework to give up claims that cannot be recovered. The main reason is that in those cases where there are households with a weak economy, without any seizable funds, there is also no basis for the enforcement of the claim as a personal claim. Against this background, the Committee also considers that the amendment of the law is justified. In the case of loans and grants granted directly by the Husbanken, applicants have legal remedies in accordance with the regulations of Section 25 of the House Bank Act. However, municipal decisions on loans and grants where the funds are provided by the Husbank, except under the rules of the Administrative Act. It is therefore for the municipalities to establish complaint procedures for that type of decision. In order to ensure equal treatment and legal certainty, the Committee agrees that the provisions of the Administrative Act should apply, but that it is specifically regulated by the House Bank Act that the Board of Appeal should be internal to the municipality. The other amendments proposed by the law do not make any special comments to the Committee. With regard to the economic and administrative implications of the amendments proposed, the Committee is of the opinion that the amendments should not lead to economic or administrative consequences. The changes, including: with the closure of the control committee, it may be seen as a saving. A unanimous committee therefore recommends the changes proposed by the Government in Ot.prp. No 74 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e119	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e155	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e163	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e334	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-26-lower.ana.ud565e342	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
