ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e54	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e59	I allow myself to propose Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e64	Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width and Kenneth Svendsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. The representative of Morten Lund will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e69	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Jon Lilletun, Ansgar Gabrielsen, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself that the State should also cover the costs of the landowners in disputes about reindeer grazing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e74	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e77	On behalf of the representatives of Øystein Hedstrøm, Vidar Kleppe and myself, I would like to propose to extend the volume of farming from 12000 m3 to 15000 m3 in the provisions for the rearing of edible fish and stockfish of salmon and trout in sea water.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e82	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e96	There are three starting points for my interpellation. Firstly, electricity consumption in Norway is increasing from year to year, while power generation does not increase accordingly. Secondly, in periods of high consumption, the capacity of the transmission system will be too low. And third, several older power plants are being taken out of production. Norway is a major producer of energy. We have an access to energy that is few other nations ignorant. Then we get clear indications that if we get a blast in winter, the capacity of the transmission system will be blown up. We can then face the situation that in some areas there may be a shortage of electricity when the consumption is high. Furthermore, when the capacity of the mains power source is decommissioned, the result could be a temporary cessation of production in enterprises or, worse, a forced disconnection of electricity to private homes in restricted areas for shorter periods. The Energy Act of the day was adopted in 1990. It was innovative in many areas. Among other things, increased competition between producers, with subsequent low energy prices for consumers. The law also provided the basis for a more integrated Nordic energy market. A key prerequisite for the functioning of the Energy Act is the full functioning of transmission capacity, not only domestic but also between Nordic countries. Now it turns out that more long-term bottlenecks have arisen in the transmission system than in the past. The result will then be a breakdown of the market and different price ranges. The operation of our power supply depends on the relationship between production, including imports, on the one hand, and consumption on the other. If the flow does not function in the transmission system, we are at risk of collapse in certain areas, with subsequent costly disconnects. Furthermore, today's fragmentation of parent companies can lead to a dissatisfaction. Additional energy savings are dependent on the necessary capacity. The environmental choices we are facing are also great. Today's production is environmentally friendly, and at the same time we regulate the withdrawal of power. Our energy production will become more and more important in terms of optimising hydropower and gas production in our neighbourhoods. Lack of transmission capacity makes it easy to lose the environment in this area. It seems that the construction of new transmission lines, including their trajectory choices, is becoming more and more complicated to be implemented in practice, when one looks at the large protests and resistances that come from different levels. The main transmission lines involve extensive nature interference. Today’s DC technology may allow for transfers with reduced natural interference. The conflict is often between nature protection interests and our environmental challenges. It has now been informed that it has been removed approx. 620 MW of production. The producers, who have been put at the disposal of large natural areas by the community, have, in my view, considerable social responsibility. I also believe that manufacturers must ensure that the power plants are in good condition and that there is a renewal so that production can be maintained. I would like to point out here that the Government proposed in the revised national budget to exempt hydroelectric power plants, in the case of new construction and rehabilitation, from the investment fee. This was also decided by Stortinget. The exemption would make the marginal projects more profitable, and it could lead to a better energy situation. In the past, we have exempted district heating plants from investment taxes, and we have now noticed that as a result of the budget agreement, the investment tax will be removed from the very beginning of 2002. Furthermore, district heating systems are exempt from electricity charges. We have had major discussions about the use of alternative energy such as gas, biofuels, waste heat, waste, etc. The use of gas power has been central to the discussions. Finally, I would like to say: we need to take the situation with regard to the transfer capacity to different areas in Norway, very seriously, so that there are no restrictions and bottlenecks. We have to make sure that it has flowed in our energy production, that it has flowed in the transmission system. Then the energy market will work well. We will have a greater commitment to and development of alternative energy production, and less polluting energy production. So my question to the Minister of Energy is: what can be done to improve the short and long term impact situation, and what measures may be relevant beyond, or instead, forced disconnection in situations where action is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e128	Over the last few years, we've had an increasing pressure on the force balance. Production capacity in a year of normal rainfall is about 114 TWh. Consumption in 1999 was about 120 TWh. Consumption growth in recent years has averaged 1.5–2 TWh per year. This year, with normal rainfall, we now have a large deficit in the Norwegian power balance. This is an environmental problem, as many of the imports come from very impure energy production, but there is also a problem for security of supply in Norway. As most people have brought with them, it has been rich in rainfall this year. So we have a good force balance, but we can't assume that it's going to count the same amount every year. We also need to take a height for dry years. St.meld. No 29 for1998-99 On energy policy, which was promoted by the previous government, the development of the power balance is going in the wrong direction. We see that in the next few years we will still have little access to new generation capacity, as consumption grows. The construction time is long, and there are currently few projects under construction. Measured The size has seen increased use of wind power and water well heat up to 2010, will not be able to cover the expected growth in consumption in the coming years. An active policy beyond this is therefore necessary in order to improve both the energy and energy balance. A tighter force balance makes it more likely to get into situations where effects are scarce. Work on securing the long-term balance of performance must be seen in conjunction with the expected development of both production and consumption. In order to improve the power balance, it is necessary to develop new power generation, increase transmission capacity and greater flexibility for final users. The government's policy for more efficient use of energy, increasing the use of renewable energy sources and increasing the use of domestic natural gas will be able to contribute to an improvement in the power and efficiency balance in the long term. In situations with a tight force balance, consumers and producers will normally have time to adapt to the changing situation. On the other hand, when it comes to the balance of effects, it is often only a matter of a moment, a few times a year. Although prices are high in just these hours, there are many actors who are not prepared to adapt or who are not given strong enough economic signal to adapt to the situation. One of the tasks of the system administrator is to take care of consumption stops that are so short-lived that the market is not ready to react. Statnett is the system administrator of the Norwegian power system. That includes, inter alia: that they are responsible for the constant balance between production, imports, exports and consumption. Statnet uses the power market in the exercise of system responsibilities. Nord Pool’s electricity spot market is important for price formation in the power market. The short-term task of the State network is to correct the imbalance between what is declared on the market and actual production and consumption. Statnet has several tools to do this. One of the most important is the regulatory power market. Statnett has now launched new measures to ensure defence for winter. They have entered into agreements with power producers and large consumers to make power reserves available for state networks in the regulatory power market. Previously, Statnett has had similar agreements with manufacturers. I think there's a lot of flexibility to get into the power system on the consumption side. So getting this out will be important in the future. Statnet also has other tools that have a more long-term character, such as: the design of tariff codes and the development of transmission systems. Statnet has changed the central network tariff for 2001, including: to ensure the balance of effects. The amendments have been submitted to the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. It would therefore be wrong for me to comment on these closer here today. The Official Journal of Bergen wrote on 2 October this year that an older power plant of a total of 620 MW would be withdrawn from production. The Ministry has been informed by Statkraft that there were three aggregates in Killidal, Saurdalen and Vinje, and that the total power was 570 MW. State power has also informed the Ministry that they have decided to rehabilitate the aggregates in thevilldal and the Saurdalen. The power capacity of 470 MW will be available for winter this year. In Vinje, the design and assessment of profitability are under way, but this aggregate will not be available for winter as rehabilitation takes at least two years. State power assumes that the remuneration of Kitilldal and Saurdalen may be secured as a result of changes in transmission tariffs and revenue from sale in the new power reserves market. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has recently made a proposal for changes to the energy laws out there. In the amendment, a number of others are proposed. strengthening the legal basis for system responsibilities. The system administrator shall have clear obligations, rights and instructions related to the exercise of system responsibilities. I intend to submit a proposal on changes in energy laws to the Spring Stortinget. Cooperation between Norway and Sweden is currently under way in the management of scarce power balances. A better cooperation can provide a better and more secure management of the power balance. Through the agreements concluded, Statnett is well-forbidden to manage the effect balance in wintertime. This year's great rainfall makes the reservoir of water full. It should therefore not be the very great father of this winter. All the evidence suggests, however, that the growth in consumption is continuing. In order to ensure the energy balance in the future, more efficient use of energy is necessary and consumption needs to be shifted from electricity to other energy carriers. Even if we succeed in this, there is no escape from the need for increased production and transmission capacity in our grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e162	I feel that in recent times we have constantly raised issues where we are faced with the relationship between use and protection. It's a rather stressful situation we're now going into, especially with regard to the transfer capacity, that's what has to do with the effect. We have a pressured force balance because we have a huge increase in our consumption. We have a deficit with average annual production. We also have, as the Council of State said, problems with security of supply, so we don't get enough effect. And the question is, do we need new power generation? I think we need it in the long term, but I don't think that's the measure that will help us over the situation that we might get into in winter. I think it's equally important that we are willing to acquire new transmission capacity. But now, in fact, it's almost as difficult to strengthen the wiring. Whether we're going to have a new grid or a stronger grid, the problems are exactly the same. That is why I am pleased with the signals that have come from the Government to exempt the district heating system from the electricity charge. I am also pleased that we have started a number of district heating systems where we have not only received an exemption from the investment fee, but also received transfers and assistance from the state. In fact, my question to the Council of State is: Can a higher degree than has been done so far find incentives for cooperation between industry and local power stations to exploit the excess heat that we know is available, at least in the melting industry? A good example is found in Kristiansand, where Kristiansand Energieverk AS and Elkem have signed agreements and are in the process of establishing district heating systems to produce so much power that they can heat up the entire university and give enough energy to the university and to a primary school, and more people will be able to connect later on. That really means we're relieving the transmission system, because it's going to be local production. Obviously, this is a problem that most people take up. I want to ask the Council of State a funny question: can the Council of State guarantee that we can get the Christmas ribs as the web is, without everything getting black?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e171	The problem of lack of power in the network addressed by the representative Nordtun is particularly important to focus on. Power consumption has increased from year to year, many of which have already been involved, despite the bulk of the population's target on the contrary. Unfortunately, the increase has come without a corresponding increase in production capacity. However, it is powerful enough to get hold of, and this year actually also within borders, thanks to large amounts of rainfall. The problems arise on a few cold days when large amounts of power are to be transferred to consumers, as the network is not short and well dimensioned for this purpose. There are, in my opinion, three ways to solve these problems. One is what Statnett has already done, namely to enter into agreements with the powerful industry for a shorter period of disengagement when the problems arise. This makes enough sense in the situation we are in, but it will not solve the problems in the long term if the increase in power consumption continues, and there is a lot of evidence that it will. Therefore, at my discretion, this must be seen as an emergency solution. The other thing, of course, is to expand the network, so that it's dimensioned for larger transfers. It will probably solve the problems, but I'm afraid that it will cost far more than it tastes. It will require huge investment costs to dimension the network so that it can take these load peaks, and in most cases it will hardly be socially sound. The third, and at my discretion the most appropriate solution in the long term, is, of course, to further expand power generation. Unfortunately, the large hydropower expansion period in Norway is over, but there are still some interesting projects that can be realized. In addition, there is also a high potential for upgrading existing power plants, and the Stortinge has done a lot of work to make this happen. We also have large gas resources in Norway that can be used for power generation. However, in order for new power generation to have a positive impact on the power situation in the network, it obviously requires that this new production is located in such a way that it does not have to be transferred over long distances, but is located near where the output is the largest. I still believe that new power generation is the most important contribution to an improved power situation, of course in addition to some upgrade of the network.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e188	The representative, Tore Nordtun, focuses on one of the most central issues of energy policy, namely how best to ensure the supply situation of electricity, especially in periods where the network is heavily charged as a result of a mismatch between consumption and transmission capacity. At the same time, it is important to maintain the safety of power supplies even in periods of significant failure of hydropower generation due to low rainfall — a problem that hardly seems to be relevant in these days. Nevertheless, it represents the exception rather than the rule. Almost every year, consumers are threatened with coercion when consumption puts too much pressure on supply capacity, with the consequences it has for particularly cold periods. It is therefore of great importance to find counter-points in relation to interpellant matters. The main challenge facing us in the energy sector is the fact that energy consumption is growing faster than the ability to deliver sufficient electricity. The strongly increasing consumption we see today, and as the future forecasts show, is the very core problem in terms of energy supply. Politically, therefore, it is a huge challenge to slow down the growth of consumption in combination with the development and use of new energy carriers. Thus, during the discussion of the Energy Communication, the majority stressed the importance of an offensive effort on alternative energy sources, also in order to facilitate better switching between different energy carriers. Such flexibility will relieve the transmission system for heavily charged periods and is therefore one of several important instruments for, inter alia, the transmission system. to counteract the switch-off ghost to which the interpellant refers. The majority of the Committee also stressed the importance of further developing Nordic energy cooperation, not least in relation to research and development of new energy efficiency technologies and for developing more environmentally friendly forms of energy. Energy and the environment are closely linked and must therefore also become an important field of activity in the future in relation to our commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The central government addressed these challenges. It defined our main challenge as planned and targeted work to reduce the growth of energy consumption and, in the longer term, to reduce it. It is not an objective to comply with the growth forecasts, but in fact to contribute politically to shaping the projections and then aligning the policy. It was the central government's main goal and should still be it for the sitting government as well. I am pleased with the unanimity that exists with regard to the use of natural gas for industrial production and in the transport sector. There is a high potential in these areas of land-based activities, while we need to see the opportunities offered by water-borne heating systems. This represents a significant addition to existing power supplies. It will therefore be important for further work on natural gas infrastructure to be organised in such a way that the large, heavy industrial environments in the country are used, inter alia. the future gas pipeline system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e205	Like the interpellant, I noticed the look-up in Bergen's Official Journal on 2 October at the time, where the information manager Akssen i Statnett points out that it could be difficult to meet the power demand if the winter was cold. The reason is that Statkraft takes out of production a total of 620 megawatts of power. In the same lookup, it is claimed that NVE is serious about the situation. Therefore, it is natural that the Storting also shows interest in the matter, as is the case today. However, the problems that are being addressed here should not be used as arguments for a general poor supply situation. Should the worst happen, i.e. The fact that forced disconnection is put in place can quickly lead people to see that power generation is too small, an impression that should at least be nuanced. The point is that Statkraft, as the prices of power are today, does not find it profitable to repair old power plants. Low electricity prices also prevent an increase in measures and the expansion of alternative energy sources, and prices are seen as a well-known bomb for the construction of gas power plants. It is not long since the Storting discussed electricity supply, supply and demand. Then many in this room, as the Council of State did today, claimed that Norway is in the process of applying itself to a formidable power crisis. The same representatives wanted the market economy principle to prevail, and that system is well under way. How, then, can it be that the power prices have so far not captured any crisis signal? The explanation is that it is at the end of the time when the Norwegian power balance was anchored for the electricity supply. The council didn't seem to be aware of it when he held his post today. Norway is increasingly involved in a Nordic and Northern European energy market. Prices show access to power in this area. Politically, we must tackle new issues. For example, it's now less interesting where the current is produced. Environmental policy requirements for power generation and efficient use of resources are all the more important. In the new situation, the focus is naturally on the network system, transmission capacity and power issues. We're getting more busy creating secure energy systems. The representative, Nordtun, responded very quickly to the draft in the Official Journal of Bergen. He's deeply concerned about what might happen if winter gets too cold. And the question is, what do we do? Of course, it is unwise to guard against extreme situations altogether. And if it's necessary to disable power, it'll be a reminder that in the future it'll have to be focused on energy flexibility, as it's written in the energy message center government said. People can change from one energy carrier to another. The introduction of district heating is a good example of long-term solutions that will be able to prevent problem settings of the type of interpellant presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e216	I will first join in the content and questioning of the interpellation. The situation can be serious in several parts of the country, and not least the bottlenecks in the transmission system can lead to major problems. An example of this is Statkraft's agreement with Hydro Aluminium on Karmøy, which will mean that during cold periods they may have to close a quarter of their industrial area in relation to power. The further development of the transmission and distribution system will, in many respects, be highly conflicted with large areas of landscape and with residential areas. A good example of this is the need of Light Energy to increase the transfer capacity of North-Jear. The trasé proposal has led to strong reactions in affected residential areas. Thus, as the representative, Mr Vaksdal, said, there is not only a question of capacity, but not least a question of new energy sources. Here, in our opinion, natural gas is in a special position. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, point 7, the Ministry points out that in areas with scarce capacity in the mains pipeline, gas pipelines may appear as a viable alternative. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State if he will follow up this perspective when he is considering where to put the state instruments to build up a gas infrastructure. In this context, it is natural to point to the plans for laying a gas pipeline over the Bokenfjord. This project, in which Light Energy has committed itself, may lead to a reduction or removal of the need to build a highly controversial new network on the North-Jear. The size asked for a comprehensive strategy for the use of natural gas in Norway in the context of the energy notification process by the Government. The problem that you have raised today shows that this is urgent. In the opinion of the Right, the description given by the Government of natural gas in Norway in the budget and in the proposal for a national transport plan is not a satisfactory follow-up to the Storting decision. We believe that the Government must come back to Stortinget with a comprehensive strategy containing clear objectives and proposals for results-oriented actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e227	There is an important inter-pellant debate, but it is regrettable that both the questioner and the answer are characterised by water retention in areas that call for new and more flexible solutions. It is important to distinguish between the issues related to efficacy and the issue of access to power. There are many who in this debate deliberately suffocate the two issues, because they have an honor to go in relation to reinvigorating, among other things. in the case of the production of gas power. Theimpact problem is on the contrary an argument for an increase and for new renewable energy sources. I noticed that Aud Blattmann said that the working party had gone in to do something about the electricity charge on district heating. That's wrong. Twice, the Labour Party has opposed such changes as have now entered into the budgetary agreement. It is also such that, when a call for the possibility of using waste heat, it is linked to the means available to the authorities for providing energy sources and alternative sources. Reductions have also been made. On the two points, the Labour Party shows that one is not willing to apply the new grips needed to address both the impact problem and the issue of access to new power. And the fact that a non-heavy person is raising the problem that 40 TWh in Norway today is agreeing to heating, and asking what is possible here, either in terms of heat pump, waterborne heat, etc., shows that one does not take hold of the heavy structural things here, which have to be solved. It is also beyond doubt that price issues are of great importance for the development of new production, whether they be traditional hydroelectric power plants or alternative renewable energy sources, and it is of great importance to trigger the large savings potential that lies here. It is during the periods when the price of power has been higher than it is now that consumption has been radically affected and that there has been increased incentives to develop the new clean solutions. I agree with the representative, Mr Höie, who points to a gas project in Rogaland that can have a significant impact both on supply and on reducing the need for new network solutions, and I support the reasoning he has put forward. There is every reason to take the effect problem seriously. There is a need to upgrade parts of the network, there is a need to enter into what I see as social contracts with industry, so that they contribute to the short periods of time that we have power problems, but above all there is a need for new solutions – two-way communication between the supplier and the individual user – so that over the marginal periods, one can contribute to the local consumption of the individual, thus mitigating the problems associated with an impact crisis. There is also a lot to go about here in terms of price variation, so the answer to the power problems is in no way increased power generation. And sipping these two things together doesn't solve the problems, it just enlarges a problem picture that is so complicated that we have to solve things in order and in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e248	The President would suggest that the concept of'sauce together' can hardly be an adequate parliamentary expression, but in a debate in which energy policy is mixed with industrial policy it can be accepted, otherwise there will be no sauce. But the President will warn against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e251	I'm going to try not to talk about sauce, but it's maybe a little bit strange to talk about problems related to power delivery at a time when it's now counted for almost 60 days in the stretch of Oslo, which is eleven days more than when Noah built the ark under the flood. We're going to hope that we can eventually pursue an energy policy that leads to that in the Eastern region we don't have to rely on such a weather to meet our electricity needs. I just want to say a few things related to what has been said about increased consumption. It's not right that consumption has increased all the last few years. In 1996, consumption actually went down, and it is an important point to bring with it. If you remember back to 1996, you had a summer with extreme drought, where water pumps mostly went empty and water magazines were half full or empty. This led to enormous attention being paid to the power situation and the electricity situation in Norway, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. As a result, lights were turned off in the main hall in the evening – illuminated public buildings were cut off. So it became very conscious of the use of power. This means that, as far as I remember, in 1996, 3 TWh were used less power than in both 1995 and 1997. This means that you have a huge savings potential in terms of raising awareness in relation to the use of electricity. I can only look at myself in and around. When I left home today, I think it was bright in all the rooms, in the bathroom the heating cables are on, and I have no awareness of my own use of power and how I handle this. The representative Kvassheim addressed this with the price question, but I'm afraid there's no willingness in this room to increase the electricity price to the extent necessary to reduce the consumption, so it's about stimulating savings in other areas. And that's what I want to ask the Council of State: what does the Council of State intend to do to stimulate a more local production of energy, that is. to improve conditions and make it cheaper to use, for example: gas, biofuels, district heating or waste management — waste is related to other environmental problems, but it can be solved? How are we going to get more local energy production? So finally, what will the Council of State do, and what can he do, to raise our own awareness of the use of electricity and energy in our own household, when we see that in 1996 it was possible to save 3 TWh just by increasing attention around it that it counted little? You might think that the electricity consumption in 2000 will increase quite a lot, because people now think it's only clear, because you've seen the rain and you know that your own power supply needs will now be covered. What can be done in terms of raising people's awareness, and what action does the Council of State intend to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e263	Norway is a privileged nation in this area as well, and we are in the techsicht when it comes to energy consumption. Based on this image, I would say that I agree with those who say that the price is important, because it increases the awareness of the use of a valuable resource. First of all, it creates thought when it comes to electricity consumption, for which there is little culture in Norway. Secondly, it can contribute to making renewable energy forms profitable. I think that a lot of the responsibility when it comes to this problem picture is in the department. The Ministry must show an active willingness to encourage the development of micro-power plants, bio-energy, heat pump and district heating. I myself had a question here in Stortinget a few years ago to get into the guidelines that public building should also have an obligation to install water well heating energy and further use of waste gases that can give thousands of households power. The Ministry should also show an active and ongoing hold in respect of wind power, and not least in respect of the progress of concession requests in relation to watercourses released for concession assessment in category 3 of the Samla Plan. In almost all of these sectors, I mean that for periods, the ministry doesn't play the active driving role that one could expect and hope it would have done when it comes to showing the way. According to the Christian People's Party's opinion, gas power on a larger scale is a blind track and little forward-looking before good cleaning techniques and acceptable efficiency are possible. But the use of gas at the level of detail is positive to the Christian People's Party, and we see it as useful and positive that the state will now make a greater effort in this area. In this image, I think it's right to mention that, among other things. Both Hordaland and Rogaland set aside money on their budgets to participate in a spice layer for more detailed use of gas, and then there are projects in Bergen City and crossing the Bokenfjord down to the north of Jären, which is a large population center, which is the most current ones. According to the Christian People's Party, it is important that the state has incentives and incentives for the development and use of renewable energy. At the same time, it is also important that we get an increased price of energy. This will result in an increase in consciousness and thus in the savings needed to keep Norway in balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e272	My intention to put this interpellation was to focus on the important part that I now believe is the limitation in a number of areas, namely the transmission system. Restrictions on the transmission system cause us to have bottlenecks. If we don't take the initiative and get it right, we can't get the power out of either price, market or alternative energy, and we can't really get an environmentally oriented energy production in place either. How we're going to solve this is the cardinal question in my opinion. When it is also clear that we can stand at the end of the line, this must not come as the Christmas evening on the ring. We must be prepared politically, and in the answer the Minister of Energy gave to me, I think he had good openings. Among other things, he said: that he would come back to Stortinget in the spring with proposals for changes to the Energy Act aimed at establishing a legal responsibility for the system, i.e. system responsibility. Then we have a new debate, and there we also have to take this up too fully. I do not believe that the energy law adopted in 1991 meant that we would have a shared market again in Norway. That's exactly what we shouldn't get. I also look forward to moving ahead with new cables across Skagerrak, not only having the one we have today, but also getting others in place, so that we can achieve more efficiency and flexibility throughout the energy market in Europe and not just in Scandinavia. So the representative Kvassheim said that there was water retention in the area. No, I don't think it's habit thinking, but I also have to admit that we've been in a very good position in Norway because we've had as good access to renewable energy as water power, which is a good environmental energy. Now we have to start thinking a lot of new things, and there have been new thoughts in a number of areas, among other things. tax due on the removal of the investment charge and the electricity charge on district heating installations. I am very pleased with the budgetary agreement that has now exempted the district heating system from the electricity charge. Who first jumped to the table right in that agreement, I'm not busy with that much, but it's also a thought that's been strutting the Workers' Party for a long time, and now we're getting it into place. With regard to the use of the gas, there are several projects on the table. The government has now brought 20 million to the Bergen area. It is clear that it creates precedents for the other areas that now have projects on the bed, and it is also important. I look forward to an exciting debate on this. Here, we all have opportunities to set up our energy policy in a proper and good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e285	It may well be that this has been a juicy debate with ingredients of both sauce and ribs. The government's starting point when it comes to the energy situation in Norway, including the power balance, is the setting of the energy message that was handled by the Stortinge in ours. These are the objectives of the policy pursued by the Government in this area. I agree with all those who say that there is a great potential for saving in Norway, that each of us could probably use much less power than we do. I agree with Hornslien that this has a lot to do with behaviors; it has a lot to do with consciousness, and information campaigns are important. I also believe, as it has been claimed, that the price has a lot to say for the consumption. It is a clear goal for us to try to do something about the consumption, especially the part of the consumption that goes to heating, and I think there is a great potential for distorting the consumption here. This is why the Government will come to the Storing with a proposal to create a new agency, which will give you a completely different drive in this work, both when it comes to information campaigns and when it comes to using different tools to achieve the goals you have seen. Nevertheless, I would warn against a future policy based on swordsmen in this area. We've been studying the power market very carefully and the situation over the last few years. At first, an energy selection was set up to look at the situation until 2020, and then the previous government raised a matter for the Stortinget about this, that's the energy message. Here it was found that over the years we would have a growing gap between consumption and production in Norway. The background is that we're growing more in Norway, we're getting older, and there are more and more people living alone. Therefore, the power consumption will rise. I also want to warn you that there is no link between consumption and production. Had we had had bigger production in Norway, it is clear that we had had less power problems than we have. And that's so that the situation is far from good enough. I hope that the measures we have seen in the work will now frighten us until winter. But in the long term we need more savings, we need better use of the network, but we also need more capacity. I'm an enthusiast when it comes to using gas in Norway. I fully support the projects related to the Boknafjord pipeline. If we start with Bergen, I think it will be such a successful project that it will be difficult to say no to similar projects in the future. So finally, I got a specific question from Mrs. Blattmann, if I could guarantee that not everything would be black when Christmas ribs were inserted. If she said that I should guarantee that no one would wear ribs, of course I can't do that. Nor can I guarantee that there will be no disconnects. But I think the measures that have been taken reduce the risk a good deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e302	The President assumes that in any case it will be Christmas. That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e316	The President will inform you that the vote on the motion for a resolution has been taken. 2 has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget examine the matter now. – No objection has been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e327	This year's extended holiday was the theme of wage negotiations. The results in the LO/NHO area were an extension of the holiday period by two days in 2001 and a further two days in 2002. The government assumed that such an extension would also apply to the public sector. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg announced in a letter dated 26 May 2000 that the local authorities would grant an additional grant to the additional costs to the municipal sector for the provision of holiday money. The extra cost was earmarked for approximately NOK 1 billion. The same letter states that the government would also assess the outcome of the negotiations with the teachers and the impact on the economy of the local government sector. St. pp. No 88 for 1999-2000 is the government's follow-up to this letter, so it deals with resources for holiday money that must be set aside the year before the holiday, and compensation for a new contract of employment for the teachers, together with a total of 1 474,125 million. SEK, divided by 1006 million. SEK to municipalities and SEK 468,125 million. kr to county councils. Wages and salaries this year were exceptional. The Committee agrees with the Government to compensate both for extended leave and for a very special teacher's decision. In the municipal sector, there is frustration over a given that has been initiated by the former and the current government and the Storting, and where it was long uncertain which was covered. Letters from Stavanger and Sandnes illustrate the dilemma these municipalities face. Stavanger is detecting additional costs of 11 795 million. kr in addition to the compensation in St.prp. No Eighty-eight. The corresponding figure for Sandnes is 7,314 million. kr. The proposal in the proposal covers two salary steps from 1 August and holiday allowance. The central part was open for an evaluation of the other elements of the teacher's decision, including: the two pay lines awarded from 15 July. We note, however, that the local authorities' own association, the Municipal Councils' Central Association, did not require their involvement. So we use the common understanding that it seems to be between the Department and the KS, that there is no tradition of compensation for ordinary wage increases. KS has taken the account of the municipalities and my costs are 88 million. kr more than the Government adds. In a letter from the Council of State to the Committee, it has been said that ‘there is uncertainty’ in both the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Local Governments’ Central Associations. A majority of the Committee, with the exception of the members of the Labour Party, emphasises that the Stortinget has initiated the special apprenticeship negotiations through the recruitment message. The majority would suggest that it's added $88 million. kr more. In addition, I would like to stress that the central party's foundation is also the tight economic situation in the municipal sector. The Central Party is aware that the Government does not propose compensation for the private schools and public schools at all. In their agreements, the teachers in these school classes have the right to demand salary and employment ratios corresponding to those negotiated in public this year. I am very pleased that a group committee today is behind the recommendation that all private schools and all public schools should be compensated according to the rate of redundancy otherwise. It has been a special challenge to get the necessary input from the ministry to the calculations that were needed here. Everything in question on 20 October from the case spokesman received a signal from the department that I was going to go closer into compensation also to these school classes. I feel a need to stress that I suggested that the Council of State's partly inadequate response to this matter is a one-time event, and that in the future, she set out her work so that the Storting gets as correct calculations as can be expected, and also in time. There's just a big difference between the first answer that came to the committee, $4 million. kr to private schools, and the final figure of 15 million. kr. The outcome of the committee's discussion is a handshake to the school type which, in my view, constitutes a special worthy supplement to the public school. Now, when the private spheres are compensated for by $22 million. combined, it may, for example: means more than 4 million. kr to Steinerskulane, about SEK 700,000 to Christian Gymnasium in Oslo, SEK 200 000 to Danielsen in Bergen or about SEK 550 000 to Tryggheim's secondary school in Jären. People's spitballs are a school battle that has given a number of young people in this country a new start and a learning for life, something more than a lot of other schools provide. People's hogs get $5 million. kr. This means for several states that the amount could be up to NOK 400000, depending on how many schools the county has. I could say more about the government's management of the part relating to private spheres and public spheres. It is close to seeing it together with the negative changes in the Government's draft budget for these school boards. Let me rather choose to underline both the pleasure of the budget agreement at this point for 2001 and the satisfaction of the committee's position today. The total amount of the adjustment is 115.5 million. to the education sector in addition to the Government's proposal. Of this, 88 million is going to go. SEK to the local government sector, 22 million. SEK to the private schools and SEK 5.5 million. kr to the public eyeballs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e358	Some brief considerations from the Workers' Party's side to this setting. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the Government's proposal for supplementary appropriations for municipalities and county councils is linked to the additional costs of extended leave and a new working time agreement for teachers. No compensation has been provided for the general settlement. Nor is it common — and this is the first time in 10 years — for a government to propose to cover the extra costs of the local government. I took note of the case rapporteur's argument about the budgetary position and the views of the Central Party on these additional appropriations, where the difficult economic situation of the local authority sector was also emphasised. Let me stress that the difficult financial situation in the municipal sector has not arisen since the Workers' Party assumed responsibility for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. So there is a difficult economic situation that has arisen despite the fact that the Central Party has been running the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for two and a half years. The background to the supplementary appropriations lies in the letter of 26 May from the Prime Minister to the KS. In the letter, the Government announced that additional appropriations would be granted to the municipality sector for 2000 as a result of increased compensation of employees related to the extension of the holiday and salary increase for teachers. The government must have all the credit for the initiative it took to resolve a very difficult negotiating situation, thus contributing to the success of the public sector wage settlement. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have systems that can provide the basis for calculations and costs in cases like this. Although the systems are not perfect, they will nevertheless provide predictability and something to deal with for those affected by this type of cost. The Labour Party agrees with the Government that figures from the central school official register should be used as the basis for the proposal I therefore take up the Workers' Party's proposal in the vote. With regard to the corresponding compensation for private schools and public high schools, I would just like to refer to the recently concluded budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. The Labour Party believes – regardless of what we think about private schools – that by providing compensation to private schools and public high schools in 2001, the same assumption must be made as for 2000, and we therefore support the Committee's position on this point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e375	Odd Eriksen has addressed the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e378	It's a little fun to notice the shadow box that budget buddies are now doing in this matter of debt or not debt. I'm looking forward to Monday and Tuesday, when we're going to have the finance debate. There are some interesting scenes in this room then, which may be interesting for some TV stations that want to increase their viewers. I would just like to say that I support the order of business in this matter. I also support the case spokesman's criticism of missing answers from the Government, and that they had to spend an extra long time to get this case through at all. I don't know if I should be so bold as to say that it might be that there was a lack of response from the Government's side that the President had to ask the Government to grant permission to circumvent the Rules of Procedure of the Storting because the case had not been doctored for public consideration in the time of the Rules of Procedure. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the government is responsible for the high wage settlement, which is why we read it in the newspapers, that the vast majority of municipalities today have a deficit in their operations in 2000. The municipalities and KS say that there is a pay gap in the public sector, not least for teachers. One of the reasons why the Stortinget, after the Progress Party's opinion, should go in and cover this, is that the Workers' Party – and the Workers' Party are actually heavy on the weight- bowl in this case – etc. have not agreed to leave the right to negotiate for the teachers to the local sector, as requested by some other party. In that case, the local government sector, through the KS, which is their negotiating organisation, would have to assume responsibility for this salary settlement. Now the central negotiations between the state and the organisation are being conducted, and the statement is being tethered downwards in the municipalities without the possibility for the municipalities to participate. The party of progress already said early in the wage negotiations in spring that the government should use tax incentives as a tool in the wage struggle to mitigate the rise in wages and salaries and thus the pressure on interest. This said the Government no more, it wouldn't be on it. Therefore, the Progress Party was also out early and said that this had to be compensated by the state, and when the Government came along, we also supported that way. So a little bit about this with private schools and public shacks. It is a well-known fact that the Labour Party has never supported private schools, rather public schools. The Labour Party has never seen private schools and public schools as a full school offering for some young people and young people in today's Norway. They've only seen that this must be something that would destroy the so-called ordinary base ball. Some of us in the second party have simply viewed the public hill as a full and well owned school offering for a good number of young people in Norway, and that private schools in some areas are also a good offer, both at the elementary level and at the secondary school level. Therefore, it was not so unexpected that the Government presented a proposal that did not include compensation for private schools and public schools. A little bit more fun was that the Labour Party now hung in the plural when it came to compensating for this. It was well that they might not dare anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e391	The case spokespersons have done exactly the right thing about the content of the case, and I just want to add that the good pay for the last few years, which makes the account base easier to master for the individual wage earner, actually almost beats under the municipal economy. Even though the municipalities have got more to route to next year, $4 billion more, the pay growth is so high that it's up all the growth and so on. It's hard to be a municipal politician, it's actually going to be less about politics and new measures, and more about the salary budget. This year, teachers got a good lift. It could have broken the municipal sector if it had not been compensated. Now it's compensated. The Christian People's Party, along with the plural, will also allow 88 million. kr more than the department has calculated. The Ministry itself states that there is ‘an uncertainty’ in the calculations. The Christian People's Party has the impression that macro-numbers often don't match micro-numbers in some municipalities. With the difficult economy the municipalities have, the Christian People's Party puts itself on the central federations of the municipalities, and hence 88 million. kr more. This case also has a principle side. For my incomprehensible reasons, the government of Stoltenberg had not given compensation to private schools or to public high schools. Private schools teach Norwegian elephants 85 pst. of what it costs in the public school. In addition, private schools keep the cost of capital. It was just missing that these schools should not be compensated for the extra costs of the teacher's pay. It's going to be a relatively large amount of money, $5.5 million to the public eyeballs and a total of 22 million. kr to the private schools. It gives a KrF far into the soul to be able to give this Christmas gift to our freshling and public skulls. That Danielsen's school in Bergen gets a total of $200,000 more, shows how important this is. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the private schools have now received a reasonable treatment. The students who go there should at least have the same good from the state as other children. It is with some joy that the Christian People's Party notes that the Labour Party also allows more money for private schools after the budget agreement. We hope it also implies that ideological understanding is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e402	In the municipal election campaign last year, school and education issues, as they have been in quite a number of election campaigns over many years, were one of the most important areas for the Right. For once, as a rare break, the Right had also said something about pay issues for teachers, namely that in the context of seeing a marked need for increased recruitment, we also needed to do something on the teacher pay side – to give them a pay adjustment to ensure the recruitment of these professions, how many actually have the longest education we have in this country, i.e. the most educationally demanding professions, for example. secondary school teachers. Then the Right also said that we took responsibility for it, and that any changes that also had to be made, which in our opinion meant that we had to have a more flexible wage policy in school too, greater opportunities for local negotiations, and when the State initiated this, we also had to take responsibility. We are involved in this today by providing compensation to the municipalities for the extraordinary wage negotiations that have taken place. When the State conducts the negotiations, and the majority of parties in the Storting still choose that the State conduct these negotiations, it will have the consequence that all such extra promises will also become a responsibility for state authorities to a greater extent than municipal authorities, because the municipalities themselves do not have any influence over the outcome of the negotiation system. Now, it's always hard to know how the outbursts become for compensation schemes in the municipalities. This depends for each municipality both on the age structure of the teachers who work there and on the degree of professional education they have. The less competent they are, the better they often get out of such compensation schemes, and the more competent they are, the worse they get out of such compensation schemes. It is then a choice and a question of how to distribute the money, if you, for example. shall use the income system or operate on other schemes. So in this case, there is a small dispute for the year 2000, and I say there is a small dispute between the Municipality's Central Association and the Department about the figures for compensation for the current year. The Central Association of Municipalities has said that they agree with the Ministry on the compensation for 2001. You're left with a residual amount of $88 million. kr. It's a dispute that's very difficult for us outsiders to go into and say who's right. When we have chosen to base the central government figures – as the ILS says is based on the accounting figures, while the ministry says that their figures are based on the wage statistics – we have done so because we believe that once we have initiated this paycheck, and the right takes on the responsibility for the teachers getting a paycheck so that we might also get better recruitment, we also have an obligation to at least not go into a detailed discussion about how many dollars and ears there are. Nor is it the case that the municipality has so much money today that it has to get 88 million kroner. kr will act as an abundance. I would like to stress that it is difficult for us to be over-judges on what figures are right here, not least when the Department and the Municipal Councils have agreed on what are the correct figures for 2001, and there is a small remainder for what will cover five months of the year 2000. So in our case, it's at least fine that we're agreeing to give an extra $88 million. NOK, which then includes the teacher's settlement, but also SEK 20 million. kr extra for compensation for the costs of extended holidays. We think what the rapporteur has done to make it clear that the private schools also receive compensation in this context, has been important, otherwise they would have had a lasting aftermath, which is difficult to take back. It has now been said quite clearly that in the event of such major changes and wage jumps, we need to adjust the operating rates for private schools at an earlier stage. In this way, we know that private schools are dependent on parental payments for the rest of their operations, and that means that for those who want a religious or pedagogical alternative, the parental payment within these education systems will be lower because we have helped to balance the differences between having children in a private school and having children in a public school in relation to the extra costs that this settlement entails. We are satisfied with the setting available. But I want to stress that we haven't said that the department's numbers are necessarily wrong, but we have a feeling that we haven't been able to figure out what the big differences are, and we have thus felt that there has been a need to provide liberality in the situation we are in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e415	This case is about two key questions. In practical terms, it is about covering the cost of the year’s wage bill for which the State itself has negotiated or provided strong leadership. As we have heard, the state does not have the habit of covering the local government's surplus growth in pay settlements in addition to the projected growth of the government budget. It is initially a good principle derived from the independence and accountability of the parties to the negotiations. Whether this works particularly well is another question. The Bondevik Government's handling of this issue in 1998 has given the municipalities a severe wound. It is the Stortinge that adopts a forecast price and salary increase, and this is what appears to be the local government's operating room in the wage settlement. There are already strong leaders here. To this end, the State negotiates before the municipalities for salary groups which can and must be compared in relation to the remuneration policy of the municipalities. The state, on its side, has a reverse attitude to its exceedances. In this area, the Stortinget is much more generous with its additional appropriations. Municipalities do not have the same free income position as regards the recovery of their additional expenditure and must reduce services in terms of quantity and quality. The size is incredibly consistent in its undercover of the claims and expectations we add to the municipality as a service provider. No private company would ever assume responsibility for tasks on the premises provided by Stortinget. That's what the Big One likes to call wanting to streamline, and as I call raging, or, more popularly, cold. And so you can ask yourself, is the municipality as a party to the paychecks being considered a free party? The second question is about cost calculations. In this case, as in almost all other matters relating to the collection of the additional costs of municipalities, there is a gap between the national calculations and those of the Municipal Councils. It would have been good if someone with clockwork could attach trust to the department's calculations, but history forbids us. In this case, I choose to attach trust to the calculations of the Municipalities' Central Association. It is not because, as a rule, the central federation of the municipalities makes better negotiations than the departments, because we may have to realize that there is a culture where the parties are positioned against each other, but it is irrevocably so that there are two parties here, where one is poor and the other is rich, and is it logical that the rich should be spared at the expense of the poor? In the future, it is essential that the Department and the Municipal Councils of Central and Eastern Europe should agree before such matters are brought to the attention of the Stortinget, and that procedures be put in place for the evaluation of decisions to systematically correct any unintended outcome of decisions taken by the Stortinget. A paradoxical conclusion in this case is that while private schools are both guaranteed compensation for this year and later years through the budgetary agreement with the centre, municipalities are not guaranteed coverage for their expenditure for later years if the central government estimates prove to be correct. SV will follow up the case and come back to Stortinget if it turns out that this is the case. SV is usually critical to private schools, at least many private schools. But we don't think it's going to subdue and kind of cold -- as I called it instead -- the private schools are the right way to take the discussion for or against private schools. We have to do this on a principle basis, and there must be driving rules that are predictable for the private schools as for the public, as for the municipalities in general. That's the point we're making of being part of and supporting this supplementary allocation to the private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e430	I first want to refute the claim from the representative of Solholm that the Workers' Party should be a fundamental opponent of all kinds of private schools and public high schools. I've gone to public high school myself, and it's even been owned by LO. So the principal resistance is obviously not present. The year’s salary settlement for teachers is characterised by teacher organisations as a historically sound settlement. In addition to a large pay gap for teachers, the parties have also signed – as the Stortinget is very familiar with – a statement of intent that, over a three-year period, will provide new and flexible working time arrangements adapted to the school of today and tomorrow. These measures must be seen in the light of the Government's efforts to strengthen the single school, so that ambitious quality objectives of the public training offer can be achieved. For the Government, it has been important to avoid the year’s pay bill for teachers going beyond other necessary resources in school, because the outcome of this payroll is of an exceptional nature. Without a scheme for compensation to the local government sector, increasing the wage costs of teachers would have rapidly exceeded the purchase of new educational equipment or other necessary measures to ensure the high quality of public education provision in primary and secondary schools. That is why the Government has proposed to compensate municipalities with an additional allocation of almost DKK 1.5 billion for extended leave in 2001 and two additional pay steps for teachers in 2000. I am pleased that the committee is largely in agreement with the Government's proposal for compensation, even if it chooses to add a few more dollars. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we have no tradition of the general government compensating the local government for increased wage costs. It is therefore the first time since 1990 that such compensation has been added — the government then went in with 80 million. kr. I have recorded, as the committee, that the local government's central association operates with a slightly higher estimate of the increased wage costs incurred by the local government as a result of the wage settlement than the government has planned. Regardless of the method of calculation, the estimations are uncertain. The basis for the department's calculations is the figures from the central school official's register, STS, per. 1 September 1999. The STS shall give a complete picture of the number of employees in the school. In our opinion, the estimates made by the extra costs of two additional wage steps provide the best estimate of the total costs that can be incurred at this time. I take note, of course, of the fact that a majority of the Committee uses KS's estimates of additional expenditure on compensation of employees in its conclusions. In the proposal put forward by the Government to the Grand Duchy, which is being debated here today, a plan has been drawn up to compensate the municipal sector for increased salaries for teachers and two additional days off leave, in order to strengthen the single school and provide the basis for strengthening quality work in primary and secondary schools. The proposal concerns exclusively activities in the municipal sector, but I have noticed that a majority of the committee – and now the whole committee – is calling for compensation to be granted to private schools and all public high schools in accordance with the subsidy rate otherwise applicable. I take note of this, of course. Then I just want to say a few words about the comments that have come about the correspondence between the department and the committee in this matter. I would like to say immediately that there has been no attempt by the department not to help to get the right numbers on the table as soon as possible. But I also have to say that this isn't easy to calculate, because this we have no tradition of, and there are many public schools and also relatively many private schools when you're making that kind of calculations. It's also a fact that when it comes to these calculations, we had to have more departments in the case, and it makes things take a little longer. It is also true that, in our calculations, which the Committee is familiar with, we took into account the most recent figures, namely from 1998, and then asked the Committee to obtain the estimates from 1997. Then there were other numbers, and then of course it also took a little longer. But we want to help and try to contribute as much as we can, within the deadlines set. Of course, we want that to continue in these kinds of cases – and of course also in all other cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e448	I noticed with interest that the Council of State assured that the Workers' Party is not in principle against private schools, and especially not certain private schools, of which she herself had frequented one. She could also have mentioned, as an example, that the Prime Minister spent his childhood at a Steinerschule, as far as I know. So there are obviously some private schools that the Workers' Party is not against. In return, we have a Minister of Education who does not neglect any opportunity to indicate that he considers private schools to be a udder, and that he will use all available means to try to end the obscurity. What I may have missed in the Council of State's posts was a reason why the Government went to the Stortinget with a proposal that would have consistently discriminated against all private schools by not getting the compensation that the public system receives. It might be interesting to know whether there was a thought behind it, or whether it was a mere forgetfulness from the Government. This case has a long history. The size discussed the issue of the payroll for teachers repeatedly. The starting point was the message of teacher recruitment presented by the Bondevik government, which was the subject of considerable debate here in Stortinget. At that time, both representatives of the then government parties and the Workers' Party argued on a principle basis against the Stortinget thinking at all about the payroll for the teachers. Formalistically, it was argued that this is a general question of negotiation that the Storting has nothing to do with it at all. I find that the perception was gradually changed, and at my discretion for good reasons. But as late as the Stortinget dealt with the recruitment message, the main spokesman of the Workers' Party, Rune E. Kristiansen, said that it was a hunch that the Council of State Lilletun had tried to involve itself in the discussions on the issue of working time agreements and the possible willingness of the teachers to help justify an extraordinary pay gap for the teachers. I also note that 180 degrees have been turned around, and that the current Minister of Education and the Workers' Party constantly reminds teachers that they have agreed to a wage agreement which also means that efforts should be made to achieve an efficiency gain. I don't think the payroll the teachers got this year, would have ever been able if it had happened within the ordinary negotiating system, and I don't think the teachers' organizations would have had the approximate strength to carry this forward. It is an example that sometimes it is a task for the National Assembly and the political parties to address issues relating to the quality of school, the future of school, and then the recruitment of motivated and well-trained teachers is the most important of all factors. All other things relating to a good school may be important, but this one factor is without comparison the most important. That's why the Storing had to take a clear position on the need for an extraordinary pay settlement for the teachers. I note from the committee position that this has also been followed up in practice by the fact that the state takes the consequences that it is the negotiator of the teachers, at least until now, and that it is also reasonable for the municipalities as employers to receive the compensation needed to follow up and implement this wage settlement. I think that's neat, and I think it's a necessity when we now have this real-estate division of labour that it's the state that's negotiating, while it's the municipalities that are employers. But let me also point out that I hope the experience with this will lead all parties towards the conclusion that it is natural for the future it is also the municipalities that take responsibility for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e463	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 617]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e477	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e486	Document No 8:34 for 1999-2000 has two different proposals. One, proposal No. 2, is a proposal for a ban on bean calls, for the regulation of bean calls, so that as a general rule it is prohibited in Norway. The second, proposal No. 1, is a proposal for a new integration policy based on the request of the Government to draw up a big message on the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society, based on the principle that immigrants must adapt to Norwegian laws, regulations and Norwegian culture and tradition, as well as respect for the fact that Norway is a society built on Christian fundamental values. The latter proposal is a difficult proposal to deal with because it is not essentially defined what is actually meant by the Christian basic values in this context, nor defined what is meant by Norwegian culture and tradition. What Norwegian law and Norwegian rules are, we know. Nevertheless, the premises put forward in that proposal are so strong that the majority of the committee, which involves all parties other than the Progress Party, has said that there is disagreement in the terms and in the arguments, and there is disagreement in the substance of this proposal. In my view, the proposal is based on the idea of no longer having an integration policy, but on a so-called assimilation policy. The important thing is to remove as many of the characteristics of immigrants who come to this country as you can, and make them Norwegian based on some standard definition of what a Norwegian Norwegian is, let them lose as much of their own distinctiveness as possible. For us, there is a wrong integration policy. To the right, it is important that we sort out what are the important, material values on which our society is based, which are about legal certainty for the individual, which is about not allowing other cultures, religious practices or other things to suppress these fundamental values, and that respect for laws and regulations should be maintained. But it is too far to say that immigrants who come to Norway will necessarily be as similar to us as possible, or that immigrants to Norway should rely on them to respect something that we do not quite manage to define as a Norwegian cultural tradition or Christian fundamental values – demands that we do not make to our own either. Because there are many Northmen who live in opposition and want to change these positions. We have humanetics in our society who want to build our society on other things. Part of the political exercise is to discuss what components our society should have, what values we should use. The integration policy must be based on the basics of being able to function in our society; it must be based on respect for our society, but it must also be based on respect for those parts of their culture that do not conflict with our fundamental human rights perspective. That is why we have said that the premise, the arguments and the realities of this proposal are, in fact, the majority of the Stortinget disagree with. It can't be that diversity should only be picantries like music, culture and new food experiences. There must be mutual respect and understanding of what is important to others. As regards proposal No: 2, which states that there is not to be allowed to speak prayers over the voices of mosques, there is a question that the Committee found early in its work also had a borderline on different parts of our constitution, both issues of human rights, freedom of religion and freedom of expression. We therefore asked for a statement from the Legal Service in the Ministry of Justice. We got that statement, and it says, among other things. att ‘a general prohibition of the prayer of mosques is likely to be contrary to freedom of religion as described in the European Convention on Human Rights... Article 9 and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights... Article 18. However, prayer calls may be subject to certain restrictions, without prejudice to the Constitution or international human rights of Norway being bound by, provided that these restrictions are factually justified and proportionate in relation to the grounds and are non-discriminatory. Such restrictions should preferably be accompanied by general and content-neutral legislation, such as: noise regulations. According to the Constitutional Act § 2, the right to ban prayers will be further.’ We believe it is reasonably clear that the proposal we have before us today, by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice, has been considered to be contrary to human rights and the Constitution. It is also underlined that this investigation states that, in the view of the Ministry of Justice, it is incompatible with Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 18 of the United Nations Convention to prohibit and restrict the prayers of mosques on grounds of integration and preservation of Christian religious values, which are therefore the two reasons given by the representative Carl I. Hagen to impose a ban on prayer. The reason here also has the effect that this is contrary to and reinforces the description of adopting a general ban based on this document would be contrary to human rights. In addition, in my view, it is not desirable to do so, precisely on the basis of the principle that we should have mutual respect for each other, both the Nordics and the immigrants who come to Norway. Mutual respect goes, among other things: That we have to learn to distinguish between what's important to put your foot down for, and what's not important to put your foot down for. If we are to put our foot down on all things that make Norway slightly different, we will gradually develop a conflict relationship and create a poorer basis for integration. The things we're going to put our foot down are cultural practices that we've seen, for example. circumcision, coercion, and issues that violate individual human rights, and where we, as a society, clearly put our feet down. The areas where we don't have to put our feet down are areas that are linked to their religious practice, which are of great importance to those who are coming. We must also be able to live with some changes in our society. Bean call is one of those things. It must be possible to practice prayers, at least not to be met with a general ban on prayer, which is part of their own religious practice. The whole proposal is based on conflict-making in my opinion. It builds an ideology that Islam is an aggressive, mind-blowing religion that will have world domination. Conflict images are being built, and a rather fatalistic, negative belief is being built that the Norwegian Church, the Norwegian culture or the Norwegian basic values can survive this. I disagree. It is a fact that one is also based on the opposite of what is the Christian basic idea, that one should turn the other cheek, and that one should have tolerance and understanding. After all, the proposal for a document reinforces the idea that this is something other than that of Christian cultural and religious values. It is based on the idea that because in Islamic nations Christian practice is not allowed, we should not allow or allow prayer in Norway. Because our religion is met with regulations in other countries, we have to regulate here. It's wrong. We have to appear as a nation for human rights, which is just to show that we can practice things differently here, because we want to practice things differently, for example. in Islamic land. So to the question, is there a need to regulate prayers at all? Yes, there may be a need to regulate beans. The County of Oslo has taken a decision stating that the regulation made by a district commission in Oslo is not justified, and the Committee has said that there may be a need to go through the rules of the Planning and Building Act to see if the rules and guidelines in place have been adapted to the cultural changes in Norway. This applies, for example: how to treat the establishment of mosques. It is clear that here we have to ensure that what has been the purpose of much of what is stated in the Law on Planning and Building, namely taking into account neighbours and the surrounding environment, is also taken into account in relation to the location of mosques and permits, for example. to bean-up. The fact that I have said this has been interpreted in some newspapers as saying that the beans should not exceed 60 decibels. That's not what the big-time committee thinks. In fact, the Storing Committee has no competence whatsoever to say where the decibel limit is going or anything. But what we've said is that the Ministry now has to go through the Planning and Building Act to see if this relationship is adequately regulated in today's rules, and to give the municipalities a code that allows the community to take due account of whether it is appropriate to place a mosque there, not least a mosque with a miner's right, because these are the reasons why this has now come up for discussion at all in Norway. This must now be regulated in a sensible manner. And there are some areas where I think there's a basis for saying that there shouldn't be a mosque here, or at least that there shouldn't be any prayer here. If, for example: should be near a Christian graveyard, it would of course seem very provocative for some people to experience prayers when you went to their dead. The majority of the Committee has requested that the proposals be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e522	The proposer takes up two proposals in Document No. 8:34 for 1999-2000. Firstly, the representative, Hagen, wants a new big message on integrating immigrants into Norwegian society. Secondly, the representative Hagen wants the government to promote legislative proposals so that there is no opportunity to raise prayers over the voices of mosques. The proposals are interlinked in their rationale and purpose. The proposer believes that it is necessary for Norwegian society to fight for the preservation of the Norwegian Christian values and culture by shifting integration and immigration policies. In this context, the proposer believes that it is desirable for the evaluation of bean appeals from mosque speakers. The proposer is not satisfied with the Norwegian integration policy, but considers it to be a failure, and therefore the Progress Party wants a new big message on integration. The proposal for anti-prayer legislation is justified by the proposers in: Fear of the extent of this can be voiced in prayer five times a day that consideration of the traditions and culture of the Norwegian community is set aside that beans deliver a dogmatic statement feared that Muslim society is also growing in Norway For this reason, Hagen believes that allowing prayers must be seen in a long-term perspective, where the consequences for Norwegian society, our Christian values and our Christian culture become crucial. Furthermore, Hagen says in the explanatory statement for his proposal: ‘In some places, ethnic Northmen feel as aliens in their own country and as immigrants use religion as a reason for not complying with Norwegian custom and use, they are challenged what can be called Norwegian or Norwegian.’ In a larger context, prayers over the speakers from mosques are a national matter and not a matter for a district committee in Oslo, Hagen says. The Labour Party rejects Carl I. Hagen's proposal to ban prayer because a ban would be contrary to the fundamental principles of freedom of religion and freedom of expression. Paragraphs 2 and 100 of the Constitution provide for freedom to express their own religious convictions. In addition, a ban would be contrary to international human rights. In other words, the State should be very careful in addressing the content of statements or religions. Norway is a multicultural society, and we cannot pass laws to limit religious diversity, at least not at this level. Governments are obliged to oppose facilitating religious diversity. We have to learn to deal with coexistence and diversity rather than fighting it and taking up the fight against it. Many things are enriching. We have to show respect and give room for difference. The Labour Party will fight against any discrimination based on nationality/ethnic origin, religion, culture and customs. The Labour Party wants integration. Everyone shall have the same rights and obligations. No group or individual shall be discriminated against and prevented from participating in society. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has examined the matter before the Committee and concludes that a general ban on prayer is likely to be contrary to the Constitution and human rights. However, the Legal Department considers that there is a certain opening in order for prayers from speakers to be subject to certain restrictions without compromising the Constitution or human rights. Prayer calls from speakers may be limited if necessary in relation to the protection of public order or health, but the restrictions must be factual and proportionate. Such restrictions may, for example: relate to sound levels and frequencies. But it has to be assessed by local authorities, it cannot be decided by policymakers from Oslo. Prayer calls cannot be limited for reasons of religious freedom, the preservation of Christian values or the integration of immigrants, as the proposer believes. Another important aspect is local freedom. The size should know its duration and ensure that decisions are taken as closely as possible. For the Workers' Party, it is an important democratic principle that the task-solving is placed where people are given the most influence. It should be for local authorities, based on local circumstances, to consider whether to restrict calls from speakers. The Working Party rejects the proposal in Document No. 8:34.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e572	Paragraph 2 of the Constitution reads as follows: «All Invaders of the Kingdom have free religious practice. Evangelical Lutheran religion remains the public religion of the State. The Invaders who repented of it are obliged to raise their children in the same way." I would argue that our proposal for legislation to ban petitions over speakers in public spaces would not in any way be contrary to the provisions of the Basic Law in Section 2 or in other paragraphs. We want freedom of religion to remain, and it is also enshrined in the Constitution. It is not that banning prayers over loudspeakers in public spaces would be a restriction on the free exercise of religion. We will claim that religious practice – at least in normal life – takes place inside the various religious houses, such as mosques, churches, synagogues, perhaps temples and what it should be called. And it is the individual who chooses whether to visit such religious houses and participate in religious practice, among others. Prayer. In Norway, the state religion is the Evangelical Lutheran, as it is also called in the second part of this constitutional provision. We're talking about that they and those countries are Christians, some are Muslim, and others may have a different religion. Norway is a Christian country and comes into that category. And when Christianity is also the public religion of the state, it's our opinion that the state has a special responsibility to care for it, even when it comes to showing respect for our own culture and tradition and defending Christianity and the Christian fundamental values. Religious freedom is one of these values, and we have not in any way wanted to put obstacles in the way of Muslims, who should of course have the right to have mosques and to pray to Allah in the mosques. We believe that there is a significant difference between what is happening inside the different religious buildings and what is happening in the public space. If it were to be that saying prayers over public spaces would be said to be part of what you should be entitled to after human rights, are speakers for the first technical innovation, and in the case of such an old religion as the Muslim, this must obviously be regulated, because speakers are some newcomers' things. Some have also compared ringing with church bells and making prayers. Here I would argue that there is a significant difference. One is an audio signal, which perhaps for some means something special, but which for them it doesn't matter any particular thing, is an audio signal. The bean calls, on the other hand, are a prayer that is called out, which all, even those who themselves do not want to be part of, are pressed when it happens in the public space over loudspeakers. I would also argue, as we write, that if you open up this principle, it won't be possible to make any restrictions later on how many times in the day it can happen. The normal thing is probably five beans a day, and it's going to happen from all the mosques. We don't want any possibilities to prevent it, as the majority say you shouldn't in any way. As far as I understood Erna Solberg, she wanted to welcome it. Gradually, in some parts of Oslo, and perhaps also in Drammen and Kristiansand, visitors will have trouble understanding that you are in a Christian country when there are a large number of mosques with prayers. This will help to change some of the character of Norwegian society. And we don't think the Norwegian population really is so inclined to do that. That is why we are also maintaining our proposal. We recognise that this is a discussion and that there have been views from the Department of Justice regarding relations with the European Court of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Declaration of Human Rights, but this issue has not been tried before the Court or before the UN Committee on Human Rights. We think it would rather be natural for us to introduce a legal framework to ban it, and it might have been dealt with in the international bodies. We are then prepared to respect the decisions that might have to be made on a specific matter. We assume that this must also apply to Muslim countries, which have also signed these conventions. If one wants churches and church bells, which are today denied, it had to be included in the same international organizations. But we think we should try to fight for what is Norwegian, for what is our tradition, and for what is our culture, for respect for our ancestors and for respect for what, I think, the majority of the Norwegian people want to preserve. So it's true, as many have said, that we also have a proposal to get a new integration message. For integration policy, there has been no success. It is not necessary to read newspapers for a long time to see that there are already growing conflicts and that there are, in particular, many immigrant children who suffer from lack of legislation and arrangements to ensure proper Norwegian training before they start school. Children born in Norway by Norwegian citizens — by non-residents with permanent residence — come to school six years old without being able to Norwegian. And then you can't say that it's been a successful integration policy. Many also have problems finding work because of a lack of Norwegian knowledge. We also see how conflicts have developed between youth gangs in Oslo, where the frequency, at least in some cases, is based on ethnic origin, and this has led to an increasing level of unrest, an increasing level of insecurity. This also clearly shows that our integration policy has not been successful. It's been based on mutual respect, and it's going to be two equal parties. That's where we in the Progress Party differ from the other parties, saying that those who come to Norway must, of course, adapt to Norwegian laws, as the majority say, but they must also adapt to what is customary in Norwegian society. It is they who have chosen to come here, and then we think it would be natural for them to adapt to what is Norwegian. Religion should be given the full right to practice and exercise, but I am pleased – I must admit – that the majority of the committee also determines that it should be within Norwegian laws and regulations, but it must also be practised. We have a good deal of examples of the fact that when our laws collide with Islamic laws – Islam is also a kind of constitution and makes laws for ordinary life – the one thing that has clearly said is that Islamic laws go ahead of Norwegian laws. Then I have a question for the Council of State, because the majority also say that the Department must review ‘the regulations and guidelines of the Planning and Building Act to see if the issue is adequately addressed as a basis for local treatment’ in terms of regulations. Christian People's Party has a special note where they write: ‘These members consider that local authorities need to define detailed guidelines and restrictions on access to the practice of prayers’. - So it's a middle ground. The County of Oslo and Akershus report that the county council has also assessed decisions against the called legal homes, but cannot see that there is a legal body that prohibits prayer in itself in Norway and that there is no legal basis for noise levels and other regulations. Will the Government address this issue and ensure that at least some provisions are made that allow local authorities wishing to limit prayer, whether it be noise regulations or other, to do something locally, i.e. to become such as: Christian People's Party has been in? On this basis, I would like to raise the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e614	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e617	The debate that Stortinget is taking today is a debate that challenges us in terms of tolerance, culture and vision of life. Document No The eight-proposal we are considering contains two proposals. One fan is relatively wide and general, the other goes on one specific matter. Firstly, the Stortinget is invited to ask the Government to draw up a new big message on the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society based on the principle that immigrants must adapt to Norwegian laws and regulations, Norwegian culture and tradition, and show respect for the fact that Norway is a society based on the Christian fundamental values. Secondly, the Stortinget is invited to ask the Government to present the necessary legislative proposals so as not to allow the presentation of prayers over the speakers from mosques. This is the last'real' debate we are taking today. The concept of prayer is relatively new in our culture. The word has come into our language and the concept of consciousness as a result of a religious need of those who live here in the country and belong to Islam. The Christian People's Party is part of that committee that does not want to support the proposal of the representative Carl I. Hagen that no such appeals should be given. The proposer points out in his proposal that the Norwegian Christian fundamental values and our Christian heritage are now facing a growing challenge from a rapidly growing Muslim immigrant population. As long as there were few Muslim immigrants, there was little impact on the Norwegian community, but with large geographical concentrations of Muslim immigrants the situation gradually changed. I think I can say that the Christian People's Party is equally concerned with preserving the Christian fundamental values and the Christian cultural heritage here in the country as any other party. But we think there are worse threats to these values and this legacy than that other believers get to express their religious longing by calling out a call for prayer. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party have also made a special remark in the vote, which reads as follows: «The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party place emphasis on the Christian fundamental values, which imply respect for human dignity and human rights. These members believe that, in line with our human rights obligations, prayers should not be banned. Man has physical, natural, and spiritual needs. Breathing cannot be won by the prohibition of law.’ The Christian People's Party does not look at the question of allowing prayers as a test of whether there is religious freedom or not in Norwegian society. So important is not this case. And even if there is no test question, it will be a violation of the Christian People's Party's thinking that is linked to human rights, if we deny people of another faith the same right that we give ourselves. I also find it appropriate to quote from the summary of the point made by the Department of Justice on this issue, on the initiative of the Committee. Here's what it says: ‘The Division of Law has concluded that a general ban on the appeal of mosques is likely to be contrary to freedom of religion as described in Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights Article 18. However, prayer calls may be subject to certain restrictions, without prejudice to the Constitution or international human rights of Norway being bound by them, provided that these restrictions are factually justified and proportionate in relation to the grounds and are non-discriminatory. Such restrictions should preferably result from general and content-neutral legislation, for example: noise regulations. According to the Constitutional Act §2, the right to ban prayers will be further.’ In this regard, the Christian People's Party, in its particular remark in the position, says: «These members believe that local authorities need to define detailed guidelines and restrictions on access to the practice of prayer.» The Christian People's Party, together with a majority in the Committee, has expressed in the vote that it is a matter of course that people from other countries and cultures follow Norwegian laws and regulations when they are in Norway – in the same way that Norwegians should. In the view of the majority, this has been and shall be a guiding principle of Norwegian integration policy. At the same time, Norwegian societies must show respect and give room for religious and cultural expressions that we are not accustomed to, as long as they are within the clear framework of Norwegian legislation, and take into account the individual freedom and rights of the individual, whether of Norwegian or foreign origin. There is also nothing new in the fact that calls for prayer, repentance and silence sound from streets and public places. So it was when the Master himself worked, and so it still is. I think most of us have stopped some time and heard soldiers from the Salvation Army singing «Barnetro». In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the principle "do to others what you want others to do to you" is a healthy and good principle. Anyone who wants to be met with tolerance has to show tolerance. Anyone who will be met with respect for their faith and customs must show respect for the faith and customs of others, unless they violate Norwegian law and human rights. In line with this, I would therefore recommend that the representatives of the Christian People's Party vote in favour of the committee's majority position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e661	The centre party is in the broad plurality that today rejects its proposal for a new principle for the integration of immigrants, namely that immigrants must conform to Norwegian laws and regulations. Of course, people from other countries and cultures are governed by Norwegian laws and regulations when they stop in Norway, just as they do in the Nordic countries. At the same time, it is our belief that Norwegian society must show respect and give room for religious and cultural expressions with which we are traditionally not watered – this at a time when our society as a result of labour migration from year back and as a result of fulfilling our human rights obligations is a multicultural society. In our view, there is no contradiction between that and the value that we want the Christian cultural heritage to have. It is still to have a central role in the design of our society. The Central Party also rejects its proposal to ban the granting of prayers. The case manager has carried out a thorough and tidy review in a difficult landscape. We focus on the Justice Department's assessment. It makes it clear that a prohibition ‘probably’ violates religious freedom, as described in human rights conventions and states to which Norway has acceded. There is a difference between a ban and a restriction. I would like to underline the need that may be in some local environment to refuse to have a mosque or a minaret, and the space that local authorities must have either for attendance or for rejection, according to noise regulations as well as other environmental issues. The debates that have so far been in relation to concrete applications both in Oslo and Stavanger, update a review of the regulations and guidelines of the Law on Planning and Building, as requested by the majority, and I expect the Council of State to follow it up. Several documents, letters and statements have come to the Committee in the process of this document. Finally, let me quote from the inter-church organization of the Norwegian Christian Council, such as. says: ‘Churches and religions want to belong to both the private and the public sphere. Neither Christian churches nor Islamic churches are satisfied with a freedom of religion that gives members the freedom to believe, but not to make faith visible. As churches, we will therefore call for an ‘active tolerance’ that allows for different forms of religious expression to be expressed.’ They also say: ‘Through a ban line against religious expressions, we do not facilitate dialogue between different ethnic groups and religious groups in Norway. If we are to reap the fruits of the multicultural composition of the people we have gradually received, we must seek this dialogue over the protection of «Christian values» through the prohibition of law.» In my view, wise words that are well worth including in an assessment that has yet to be clearly rejected by the two proposals that we are considering today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e684	I have to admit that the prayers – like the germination of the bells – occupy me just as well. I don't let myself be excited or disturbed. But I can understand that others have it completely different on such questions. That's why I want to be part of and protect about the principle of freedom of religion and freedom of expression, because, on the other hand, it occupies me strongly. The case rapporteur, Erna Solberg, should be commended for having resolved the matter without leaving it as the only matter of substance. I have to admit that a principle that we should all adapt to Norwegian culture and tradition and show respect for the fact that Norway is a society built on Christian fundamental values would also make me the object of Carl I. Hagen's Ministry of Speech and Behaviour, and SV would hardly be a legal party. I find it premature and outrageous to require immigrants to adapt to the Norwegian society that in the utmost consequence makes it illegal for them to speak and behave like myself. Then go to prayer. The Ministry of Justice, on the occasion of the case, has stated that a ban on petitions: ‘will probably be contrary to freedom of religion as described in the European Convention on Human Rights... Article 9 and the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights... Article 18’. – «Probably», because such a question has never been raised for the bodies dealing with such questions. And it strikes me that the proposer should have noticed just this, that in no other country has this issue been dealt with in a way that has called for review in the European Court of Human Rights, the European Commission on Human Rights or the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. It is striking that the Progress Party wants to try out a law at the very end of the matter. It places the Advance Party where it belongs. I want to take the opportunity to reflect a little bit about the laws and rules that apply, and the attitudes that, in the SV's view, should characterize society. In a related case, the County of Oslo and Akershus have dealt with today's legal situation. The county council was asked to exercise the legality control of a decision of the City Council of Old Oslo. This allowed the use of loudspeakers for bean calls and set time and decibel limits. The county states that the decision of the district is invalid — invalid because there is no law authorising the authorisation or prohibition of prayers. It follows that no restrictions can be imposed on an authorisation which is not to be applied for and which is not to be granted. From this we can conclude that in general we do not need to apply for permission for our sound emissions. That's good. But that doesn't mean there's no legal situation. The municipality is allowed to put an end to noisy or harmful high noise, and can detail this by means of municipal regulations. This is the result of the Local Health Service Act and the Pollution Act. So, through laws and regulations, we set a standard for how we want our society to be and evolve. Then we assume that this is followed, so that it is not necessary to apply in advance for permission not to break laws and regulations. That's a good principle: we're not going to apply for permission not to break laws and regulations. Or, as the Progress Party would normally say, "Freedom under responsibility, and no to the guardian state! The party seeking to consolidate is that Muslims, in general, are unable – and therefore should not have the challenge – to balance their actions within existing laws and regulations, that the concept of responsibility is alien to immigrants, so that Norwegian society has to lay down special rules for immigrants and, in this case, Muslims. Nasty. This does not mean that prayer in living environments will necessarily work very well or in any way is trouble-free. That's the way it is with all the new and foreign expressions. We are annoyed by the icy sound of the ice car and the endless numbers of the outdoor bingo – not to talk about the frontier-breaking and omnipresent pop and rock, hip hop and techno music. More than anything offends, of course, the sounds that link alienated sounds and alienated opinions, plus dark skin. So it's up to us who understand, to seek out good solutions that make immigrants both feel welcome and take the best of their cultures and our culture and are inspired to take their share of responsibility for their surroundings. At that point, I agree with Carl I. Hagen that neither the Norwegian community nor many immigrant communities have succeeded in their task and responsibility. It does not legitimize that the Stortinget is invited to print out the wrong medicine in buckets and buckets. Finally, I should like to comment briefly on the comments of the Christian People's Party. They link Muslims to the practice of prayer, to what they call the spirit struggle, and believe that the spirit struggle cannot be won by the prohibition of law. So Christian People's Party believes that local authorities need to define detailed guidelines and restrictions for access to the practice of prayer. Here we find a wonderful distinction between law and rule, where the Christian People's Party seems to believe that the spirit struggle can be regulated by specific rules and regulations, but God forbids prohibiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e713	To the one proposal by the Progress Party and Carl I. Hagen, on the new big message of integration, I would say that it comes to the Stortinget in a few weeks, and therefore it should be unnecessary to make another one. It should also have been known to the Progress Party. But that message will probably be based on completely different attitudes to this issue than the Progress Party uses. I noticed with interest the post from Carl I. Hagen, who spoke warmly about preventing to make integration easier, in relation to, among other things. that children should learn Norwegian before they begin school. The Labour Party fully agrees, but it will then be interesting to note what the Progress Party has done to facilitate the integration of our new countrymen. I'd say that's not exactly from where we've got the biggest contribution to making integration easier. But I look forward to how the Progress Party will handle that message The Government will present to the Storting in a few weeks. There will be a test piece on what Carl I. Hagen is talking about in terms of lack of integration. Then I would like to comment on the question of a general ban on prayer. There I agree with several of the representatives who have said that it is likely to be contrary to freedom of religion as described in the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 9, and the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Article 18. In a culturally diverse society, in my view, the role of authorities is not to eliminate diversity, but rather to facilitate good living together by different groups. I think that cultural diversity is enriching, I think it's a strength for the community, and I think it's part of our everyday life. Then there must be a requirement for mutual tolerance, trust and respect. Within the framework of Norwegian law and fundamental human rights, all citizens, regardless of their origin, have the right to claim their values, follow cultural traditions and practice their beliefs. Practical solutions to possible conflicts must be found through dialogue, mutual adaptation and democratic processes. In the light of this, I, like the majority of the Committee, believe that prayers should continue to be allowed, but that the issue needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis by local authorities in relation to any noise regulations and in relation to the local environment. I take note, of course, that a majority of the committee wants one to go through the regulations in relation to the Planning and Building Act. Of course, I'll make sure that is done. I don't think we should be so afraid that Norway is a multicultural society. On the contrary, I believe that it is an enrichment for our society and something we should be proud of. We are not finally in the field of integration policy, but it is a shared responsibility. For the Workers' Party and the Government, it is essential that all people are equally worth whatever their skin color, religion, race and gender. There will also be a basis for the communication on integration policy in Norway, which we are now in the final phase of our work, and I look forward to the debate on the important issue here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e729	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e732	It is not always easy to see any straight line in the tracks after the leader of the Progress Party when he jumps from case to case. In some cases, he has a fundamentalist view of the Department of Justice, for example. in the case of gas power. In this case, which is of a much more principled nature, because it concerns constitutional and human rights conventions, he allows himself to ignore the Department of Justice's investigation, because it is uninteresting. At the same time as he wishes to have a rather blatant and hard-handed integration policy vis-à-vis minorities in Norway, he has put forward a proposal – which is at the moment in the Justice Committee – to take care of the interests of Norwegian settlements in Spain, where the approach is exactly the opposite, namely the concern for the Norwegian minority and its rights to remain Norwegian in the Spanish environment. It is not quite easy to see the consequences of this, and probably there is no consequence either. However, what is striking to me in this matter is that the argument that is now being put forward is quite different from what Carl I. Hagen presented in this Chamber on 23 February, when the Prime Minister Bondevik's statement on the state of the state was debated. Then he made several very blatant claims about the content of the Muslim prayer. According to Carl I. Hagen, it was supposed to be about condemnations against different believers, he specifically referred to Christians and Jews. Today he has not repeated any of these claims, and that is good, for in the meantime he must have discovered that the claims were groundless, and simply a false accusation. Of course, what is the fundamental question is: Can one interpret the Basic Law's words about the Protestant Lutheran religion as the official religion of the Norwegian State in the way Carl I. Hagen does – that is, it is a state task to discriminate for the benefit of the Christian religion in a particular edition? This is what was argued in Stortinget the time it was suggested to remove the Jewish paragraph in the 1850s. This was argued when proposals were made to remove the provisions against monk orders in the 1890s. And this was argued as late as the 1950s, when the Stortinge decided by hardly a majority to remove the last discrimination clause in the Basic Law, that is, the one that applied to Jesuits. As far as I can hear, Carl I. Hagen argues exactly along the same lines about the strange form of Christianity that was argued for in the last century and centuries before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e746	Ten days ago, the Stortinget dealt with the Government's human rights action plan. And I would like to stress that it was a unanimous foreign committee that emphasized the right to exercise its own religion. On the basis of this proposal from the Progress Party which is being discussed here today, to legislate that there should be no possibility of speaking prayers over the voices of mosques, I have to ask how much the contribution of the Progress Party to this unanimity of the Foreign Affairs Committee was worth. I would also say that something more cynical populist than this Document No. The 8 is going to be a long time to look for. For here it is really played on the fear of strangers and on the fear of the unknown. The grounds for prohibiting the opening of beans include: – as far as I can read – that Norwegian culture and Norwegian basic values are facing a growing challenge from a rapidly growing immigrant population. Instead of being involved in measures to create an understanding of how multicultural societies can enrich our society, the Progress Party chooses to swirl up horrors and play on prejudices. So instead of recognizing that security in one's own culture and identity is important for tolerance and dialogue, the Progress Party chooses to look at prayer and to express its own religion as disturbing to Christian traditions. The principle of freedom of religion is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and also in the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights. But this is also about freedom to express religious conviction, that is, the issue is also closely related to the provisions on freedom of expression in the same conventions. Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights restricts the freedom to express their religion only if it threatens public security or to protect the rights and freedoms of others. This is also confirmed in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee on human rights, among others. in respect of violations of the dignity of women. No, it is probably another agenda underpinning the Progress Party. And I also think that they reveal it quite thoroughly by proposing in the same document no. The 8 proposal that immigrants must adapt to Norwegian laws and regulations. No one disagrees that everyone living in Norway must comply with Norwegian law – in any case. It also underlines the Committee and it has been and must be a guiding principle for Norwegian integration policy. Finally, in our social-democratic society, human rights, freedom, tolerance and democracy are values that have gone hand in hand with prosperity development and subsampling. We must not – as Carl I. Hagen does – give the steam from the depths a large public space. Instead, we have to make sure that people who feel their well-being are threatening, demanding us, and not correcting their frustration down against people who are weaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 617]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e777	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e788	: The proposer, Carl I. Hagen, will introduce legal provisions that would allow refugees residing in a municipality with an integration grant not to receive public financial support for living if they reside in another Norwegian municipality. The proposal is justified in: the costs and problems of the transfer municipalities, in particular Oslo pressure on housing prices because the municipalities have to overstep ordinary Norwegian citizens when the housing is to be acquired to move to their own countrymen, difficult integration of refugees into society, it is claimed by Hagen that this makes training in the Norwegian language difficult and in Norwegian social conditions concentration of refugees from different countries causes integration problems for the host municipalities that far exceed the fact that state funds are transferred from the first municipality of destination to the municipality of relocation; Most of those who receive asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis in Norway are currently resident after the UDI Foreign Affairs Directorate has concluded an agreement with individual municipalities. Some refugees settle on their own initiative without agreement between the UDI and the municipality. The majority indicate that the State grants a grant to the municipality of residence, regardless of whether the individual refugee has resided on his own initiative or by agreement between the State and the municipality. The grant is distributed over five years and paid to the municipality of the refugee at all times, and it goes to the municipality, the municipality of residence, and not to the individual refugee. Like everyone else in this country, refugees who are not themselves able to cover living expenses receive social assistance according to the same criteria as everyone else in the municipality. In order to prevent refugees from becoming passive recipients of public benefits, the majority of the Committee considers that the choice of municipality of residence must be seen in relation to the objective of the fastest possible entry into work or education for each refugee. It is true that sometimes it is obvious that frequent relocations hamper both the efforts of municipalities to facilitate work and education and the ability of individuals to deal with themselves. Then the move is a problem. The majority further indicate that the issue we are discussing here today has been considered in the past. In 1994, a working group set up by the Ministry of Local Affairs and Employment presented a report on ‘Actions to reduce secondary migration’ for refugees during the integration grant period. As a result, a new provision was made in the Regulation on the right of foreign nationals to social assistance, § 1-2a. This provision continues to apply and allows a refugee who moves from the municipality of residence and seeks social assistance in another municipality to be referred back to the municipality of residence. This is with respect to report something quite different than cutting off the refugee any social benefit for living when he moves. It opens, inter alia: for a reasonable assessment of the right of return to the individual refugee to choose the municipality of residence itself. So such a rationale assessment wants the Progress Party to go away from it. The majority point to the fact that the central point in this respect is the individual’s right to choose which municipality to live in, but no unconditional right to support and assistance in a new municipality if a relevant offer is already established in the first settlement municipality. We're not going to cut off natural steps from Stortinget in an establishment phase in a new country. Nor should we introduce rules that make it difficult for refugees to move where there is work or training opportunities, and we should not prevent the flexibility that is currently in the social service through individual assessment opportunities. To cut off refugees the possibility of getting social benefits for a period after moving if they need it, in my opinion, is very unfortunate and stigmatizing, and it is not in line with the political line the majority has taken. The majority believe that the question of how the selection of a first-time residence can reduce the need for second-time settlements should be given more attention in the further work on integration policy. We will come back to this in connection with the announcement of the announcement on the refugee and asylum policy by the government of Stoltenberg before Christmas. The majority consider that it would not be reasonable to introduce provisions which make it impossible for refugees to move where they can get work or training, even if during a transitional period they may need assistance. There must be a discretionary possibility of granting assistance for living for persons who have particularly strong reasons for wanting to change their place of residence. Once again, we see that the Progress Party stands alone in the debate on refugee policy, far from the majority line. The majority of the Committee rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e832	The rapporteur said at the end of his speech that there must be an opportunity based on judgement to provide financial support for living in another municipality when a refugee deployed by the UDI chooses to move to that municipality. My question to the case-rapporteur is whether he thinks it reasonable and reasonable that it should be the municipality, the municipality's own system and the elected people, who will make the discretionary assessment, or whether he thinks it is natural, as is now the case, as some in the committee also say, that discretionary judgements by the municipality of relocation are being overestimated by the bureaucracy of a county. Would it not be natural for a discretionary assessment and a reasonable assessment to be made by elected representatives, who are responsible for the economy of the municipality of removal, and not by a bureaucrat, without any responsibility at all, at the county council?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e837	It's going to be a strange kind of question. It is suggested that other social assistance rules apply to refugees in relation to the North. It is clear that social assistance is treated in relation to social legislation. If there's anyone who disagrees with the decisions that are taken, they'll anchor to the county. It's being handled by a bureaucrat. But the representative Hagen presents it as the bureaucrat who decides this. It's not like that. As I said in my post, this municipality has the opportunity not to provide social assistance if there are important reasons for it. But it has to be justified. I have also said that in my introduction. The majority agree. But it can't be like the representative Hagen says, that it's a bureaucrat who decides this, because that's not the case. We have a law that says how we distribute social assistance in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e844	The complainant now said that it cannot be the case that different legal provisions apply to refugees or non-residents and to Norwegians, in the case of social assistance law. Then I ask him to look back at the introduction of his own post, where he just emphasised that in 1994 a provision was made in the regulations on the rights of non-residents to social assistance, § 1 2a, to which he himself referred. He cannot then say in reply to me that it should be non-discrimination, when he himself has said that it is a separate provision for this. This is how the comment of the Right and the SV also states – for once I get to use Right and SV as a witness to the truth – that it is such that decisions in the local authority’s own system are often tried by the county council. In that case, it is usually a bureaucrat at the county office who actually has the discretionary decision-making authority, which imposes on the local authority expenditure – according to a reasonable and discretionary consideration in the municipality itself, either by the municipality’s own bureaucracy or often, in cases of doubt, by the elected representatives of that municipality. So my question was: when a majority of the elected representatives – and there is a majority that does not consist of the Progress Party – in a common municipality, perhaps consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, say no, here are the criteria for granting social assistance to a transferred refugee, according to the regulations for foreign nationals, not present, does he think it reasonable that a bureaucrat in the County Office should be able to overdo that? Or will he agree with us that here we should have a change, so that when local elected representatives, who are responsible for the economy in the municipality, have said that this is not within what they are entitled to, should it be respected by the systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e851	That's not what Hagen claims, that this overtest is done automatically. It is based on the fact that some people disagree with the decisions taken by politicians, possibly in the municipality. They'll anchor it to the county. We have a system where it's possible to appeal to things that we disagree with. Then it is up to the county to decide on that matter. I'm actually a little surprised at that remark. This is presented as over-testing of all matters. I assume that some cases are being tried out, in line with all other matters that the county council is dealing with. It is, of course, a very important device that deals with many issues in Norway. But it's always based on the fact that there's an opportunity for someone who feels wrong to apply to the county to review a decision taken in the municipality. There may be different solutions to that. So I do not agree with Mr Hagen's statement that it is automatic in that this is being verified.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e856	There is a debate about the county office and the right and obligation of the office to review decisions appealed against. It's true, as the representative Hagen says, that we've been on a note stating that this is happening to a great extent, and perhaps especially in Oslo. Then the Right and SV roads are separated, because the Right say that there is an premature review of the municipality's decision. We would rather that the municipality is given too little resources to care for the interests of the municipality, so that when there are too many tests, it is simply because the public has not been given the power to provide such assistance, which must be considered worthy of the person who needs it. That's what we want to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e861	It is clear that SV needs to clarify its remark. That's what Helge Bjornsen did. I do not disagree with what he says, but it is clear that there will always be a discussion about whether there is enough money in public, and especially if there is enough money in Kommune-Norway. But I want to maintain my claim: there is no automatic in that the county rejects these applications. It's based on someone anchoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e866	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e870	Let me first correct, sir. Mr. Leif Lund, the President-in-Office of the Council. I have also not talked about this being automatic, which he has now three-four times tried to refute – so he rejects a claim that has not been made. But what's in the comment on Right and SV is the following: ‘These members have registered frequent review of the decisions taken by local authorities to refuse the stay of their lives in these cases.’ The result of the change made in 1994 in the context of measures to reduce secondary migration is a well-known issue that is also well known to the Ministry. There are many municipalities that have protested against having secondary movements – that is, they get refugees who live in the municipality, as well as what they themselves have agreed to with the UDI. And there was a tightening; they accepted that this was a problem, and they made a new regulation. And here it's just SV and Right that point out that this has not worked so well. Because it is clear that if a refugee who lives in a municipality would like to move to Oslo, Drammen, Kristiansand, Bergen or Trondheim to be there with countrymen, there is a perfectly plausible and natural reason. I get it! But that's what you're supposed to prevent. It is clear that when they apply and are refused in the transfer municipality, it must be assumed that they are anchored. It's clear that they're the ones who get a rejection, who's anchoring. Those who are approved do not agree. So this is where the SV and the Right make it clear that this is often over-tested. And it's being tested by a bureaucrat at the county in real life, in practical life. This is one of the things that we think is a completely reprehensible system. And it's about social assistance in general. If it is to be the elected representatives of a municipality who are to make judgemental decisions and make reasonable considerations, it should not be possible to appeal anywhere and be over-tested by anyone else. But it is true that the municipality has the financial responsibility. And that's where I get it. The municipality lacks financial resources, so it has to be a bureaucrat of the county that decides and thereby deprives the political governance of the municipality of being charged with expenditure, and then the municipality has to tighten up in other areas where there are no such law-enforcement rules. But for the main problem. To go back to the previous debate, the municipal minister asked what the Progress Party had done, or was interested in doing, to promote integration. Yeah, this is one of the things. It is quite obvious that a refugee – and in particular a refugee family – who lives in a municipality where there are few refugees, and where a system has been created and is a reception apparatus and a refugee consultant who may organize their lives, including that children are accommodated in kindergartens with plenty of Norwegian children and are in an environment with few refugees, are more easily integrated into Norwegian society, where they learn the Norwegian language more easily than if they move quickly into Oslo, Drammen or other major cities and settle with countrymen. Then the children come to school without being able to Norwegian. In other words, the choice of place of residence is probably almost the most important in terms of integration policy. If you live with Norwegians, the integration process almost goes by itself. But if you live where there are only countrymen, where you only use your original language and the children play with other children of the same language, you experience what we're doing in Oslo schools, where Norwegian parents apply to move their children to other schools, because in a class of 27 there are 2 Norwegian children and 25 immigrant children, and the language in the schoolyard is not Norwegian, but other languages. When UDI concludes an agreement with a municipality from a five-year perspective, and the municipality has planned this, I think it is really a mockery of the municipality that has taken on this commitment and accepts refugees, when it is allowed that the refugees can actually move quickly to other municipalities. For the first municipality, they still have their expenses – they may have the refugee consultant, they have done some preparations – and then the refugees move to another place where there are similar problems. What we've said about support for living, is that if they get a job somewhere else, everything's fine, then they're doing themselves, there's no problem with them moving. But when it's for the public, we want to maintain our proposal, which I allow myself to record, and as far as I know – I'm not 100 pst. safe, but not far away — implemented in Denmark, by a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e888	Carl I. Hagen made the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e893	In many ways, the policy of the Progress Party in this area is very elucidating. It may seem that the constraints on which the representative Hagen here makes himself a spokesman for the appeals should apply only in this area. I want clarification and clarification from the representative Hagen on whether this is the case, because if you want to follow Hagen's reasoning in a slightly wider perspective, it opens up a general tightening of the individual's appeals when it comes to decisions taken at a single administrative level. I'd like to make a clarification of that. I don't think we can have any different ways of dealing with the appeals of individuals, depending on our ethnic connection. I would rather ask Hagen if it is really reducing second-hand movements that are the right reason for the proposal. At least then the proposal becomes more understandable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e898	Of course, when it comes to appeal access, it's a principle view. We have this view in the Progress Party that when we confer decision-making powers on elected bodies – i.e. local authorities – by legislation, we must have the county council to ensure that laws and regulations are complied with. However, where there is a discretionary assessment, a reasonable consideration, a decision by one elected body shall only be subject to review by another elected body. We have a lot of issues where local politicians do the best they can to get inside them, are on tour in planning matters, etc., and after a lot of about and buts and discussions, it's going to be possible to say yes to bringing up a cabin – after real work. Then it appeals to the county environmental protection department where it sits a bureaucrat and reviews the popular decision, without inspection, without insight, just from some theoretical point of view. It's a system we're opposed to. And that's principle. So Eriksen asked if there was going to be a difference in appeals because of ethnicity. There has been no mention of ethnicity here at all. How in the world does he manage to dictate it? After all, the government itself — a former government — has made a new provision in the regulation on the right of foreign nationals to social assistance. That's what we're talking about. It has nothing to do with ethnic background. It is that it is a foreigner, it is a secondary refugee, which Eriksen himself has recognised as a problem. Yes, we want to reduce the possibilities and access for refugees deployed with UDI support and means of integration to move, as long as this entails costs for another municipality. If they get a job, even cover all the costs and are out of this refugee system with integration grants and things to live on themselves, they should be fully entitled to it. However, when it comes to laying a transfer municipality at a financial burden, we want to limit that possibility – for many practical reasons, for both municipalities and for the integration process of the refugee family it may apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e909	I'm a little surprised by the last speeches, because now the representative Carl I. Hagen has repeatedly argued as if what they're proposing is to restrict the appeals to the county councillor. But the proposal that lies here is: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that refugees seconded in a Norwegian municipality with State integration grants may not receive public financial support for living if they settle in another Norwegian municipality.’ So it's not a matter of allowing elected levels in other municipalities to decide that they should receive social assistance. They shall not be able to receive social assistance, and that shall be ensured by the Government by amending the law and regulation. That is the difference between what the Right believes and what the Advance Party believes in this matter. We have said that we see a problem with the county council's review – I'm going to come back to what we see as a problem with that, in my post. But what the Progress Party has proposed is that the municipal authorities cannot choose to receive a refugee living on social assistance either, because an absolute rule has been proposed. In any case, it is not possible to read the original proposal by the representative Hagen other than that there is a removal ban for refugees who have not obtained a job or have other means of living. If the representative of Hagen has indicated otherwise, he has made the wrong proposals in this document.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e919	I think this was uplifting, because it shows that Erna Solberg has at least almost understood a relatively simple proposal. What it says here is that those outsourced with integration grants from the UDI, and with an agreement between a settlement municipality and the UDI, should not be allowed to move to another municipality themselves if it still means that they need public support to live in the municipality they move to. However, if they take it up with the UDI, and justify why they want to have a municipality of residence other than the one to which they have moved, then it's not even those who move, then it's UDI who really stands for this. And UDI must have reason for that. If UDI has deployed a refugee or a refugee family in a municipality, and they have strong desire to be in another municipality and contact UDI while they live there, and ask if it is possible to move from the municipality they first came to and to another, and UDI agrees that there are reasonable and reasonable reasons to do so, then it is UDI that deals with the new municipality of relocation if they can accept them. Then it's not even the ones who did it. Then it is according to agreement and according to reasonableness. And that I accept can happen. But they shouldn't even be able to just move and then show up at the social office in the new municipality and say, "Here we are. We've been living with some relatives for two months now, while we were actually outsourced to another municipality. Now we will be living in this municipality, where we have lived quietly for two months with some relatives, but we require the municipality to get us a place to live, and the municipality must also provide us with support for living. No, they won't have the right to do that. They shall then be returned automatically to the municipality receiving integration grants. It's clear. So Solberg's representative has generally understood our proposal, but we're not cutting off the possibility that UDI can move a family from one municipality to another, if UDI does it through agreements with both municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e928	There is no doubt that there is a need to look at measures that can reduce the large number of second-stage constructions that are today. But why not put the search light on the preconstruction that is before the first creation? I'll take that as a theme, of course, in the integration message. First of all, I want to ask Carl I. Hagen, with the understanding of the populace's problems that he here maintains in a context, whether he has the same understanding that it may actually be difficult suddenly to experience the ups and downs in an integration momentum, after one has ordered and arranged for a move. Then I understand that he does not accept today's law on social services, which does not add up to general social assistance by moving, but which, on the contrary, takes care of the human importance that the Center Party thinks should be, of course, that one should have the possibility of social assistance in that municipality. Now this was a difficult round of complaints. It is added to the municipality that manages these matters. So now he's going to say no to the county council, and then he's going to cancel the county council. Is it, then, the Storting that should be the Board of Appeal of the other persons in that country who should have the right to appeal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e939	This last one I didn't quite realize, because what I expressed was a principle attitude. But if anything were to be verified by a local government within today's system, perhaps the Board of Appeal would be the body or the Stortinget, or possibly new bodies. I said that we have the principle that discretionary decisions made by a elected body should not be subject to scrutiny by a non-bureaucratic bureaucrat. It's a principle attitude. How we are going to sort this out in practice, we can discuss it. There may be a lot of ways to do it, but I want to strengthen the elected bodies, it's the ones who are going to make judgmental decisions. Because if the voters are dissatisfied with the discretionary decisions made by the people, they can replace them at the next elections, while a bureaucrat cannot be replaced, nor does a bureaucrat have any responsibility for the adverse effects that they impose on society through their – sometimes – remarkable decisions. So to the first. I am very pleased that Meltveit Kleppa clearly said that there was a need for measures to limit the movement from the municipality that was first located in, to others. That is what we are proposing, but in which everyone disagrees! Very often we promote proposals – and then we get some kind of howls by the majority that these are terrible proposals. They admit that there is a need to do something, but they don't even have their own suggestions on how to limit this. And here, Meltveit Kleppa admits that we must have measures – yes, vote for the action we have now proposed, instead of being passive and not promoting our own proposal. And then she asked me if I was also thinking about the problems for the primary municipality, which has prepared to accept refugees. I said in my post that we also put this forward for the primary municipality, which has added up to the costs and an apparatus for the refugees they have agreed to accept, and based on integration grants for five years, and then maybe three years and then all the refugees have moved to Oslo or Drammen, while you have the apparatus and employees. That was the consideration I pointed out. Another municipality, like Oslo, says yes to receiving so many refugees, and because other refugees move there, there will be twice as many as they agreed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e948	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e951	The Christian People's Party will make it clear that the rules we have today mean that refugees do not have the right to support living in municipalities other than the primary construction municipality, and this principle is the main principle. It applies throughout the period when the municipality accepts integration approaches, and I want to make it clear that a general rule is a general rule. The Christian People’s Party therefore felt that the proposal from the Progress Party was unnecessary. We understand that the Progress Party will have an absolute rule instead of a general rule, but it will be a little flexible, and we're afraid that it can create a lot of problems and maybe get benefits. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the freedom of the individual must be great. That's what gets complicated with such a proposal. At the same time, each individual must initially take responsibility for his own life. We believe that the caregivers must be so flexible that refugees can also move where they get work or want to take education, even if there may be a short period of time when they need social assistance. At least there must be a possibility to consider what is best for both the municipality and those who move. Work is at least the best form of integration for those who are mature. Of course, the Christian People's Party sees that there are relatively many people moving to Oslo – perhaps the rain we now have, which is the most common thing in Bergen, can stop some of this movement. Proposals that may reduce the need for second-time build-up must be thoroughly discussed in the warning message, but the possibilities for using discretion should not be lost. The reasons for a change of place are legio. I myself have changed the dwelling many times, and then had good reasons for it. And even if the general rule is established, one has to approach the issue in a flexible way, and we don't think that was the case in this proposal. Angemögligkeiten is a very important principle in Norwegian law-enforcement, but who else is an anchor, is a questionable theme. It has not been, as I have understood, a topic before in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e962	Resettlement is a major problem for many municipalities to deal with, as it is assumed that municipalities will have a large support and support device for many refugees and persons with a humanitarian residence permit when they come to the municipalities. It's quite obvious that the biggest cities, and especially Oslo, have the biggest problems, and in that way it's time for the issue to be addressed. We also believe that this issue should be re-examined in relation to the treatment of the notified integration message, and the majority agree that this should be done. When we want to go against the proposal that the Progress Party has made, it is based on the fact that there must always be a balance between individual freedom and individual rights and absolute rules. There is a need, including for refugees and people who are on humanitarian grounds, to have the possibility of a discretionary exercise to see if they have the opportunity to move, and we don't think it is necessary to bring UDI into all of these cases. So we believe that there must be a discretionary exercise where there is the possibility that you can take into account that people have strong individual reasons for wanting to move. Family members may be closely related elsewhere, such as family members. have had problems with illness, or it may be that you simply want to move somewhere else because someone has been found at the reception that has been located there. Many reasons can be mentioned. Absolute rules are a problem in relation to being able to take these individual considerations into account. The problem that has arisen in our opinion concerns the possibility of a discretionary exercise. The general rule is clear, and it does not actually apply only to refugees. It is also possible to refuse ordinary Norwegian social assistance if they suddenly come to the social office in a municipality and say that they want help to go home to their original municipality. It's possible. However, it is particularly possible to do so against refugees who have the residence period in their primary municipality. When you see an extensive use – it is described in the comment of the Progress Party – of a strategy where you live with friends and know for two to three months, then to stand up at the Municipality of Oslo and lack housing, we think you have a resettlement because you actually have a place in another country. This then forms part of the host problem that we've seen. I think the Council of State also knows that from when she was the Council of State for Children and Family Affairs, because there were just major problems related to families with children at the hospital in Oslo in the autumn of 1997. It wasn't the same children's families that were always at the hospital, it was always new. And this was part of the resettlement problem. It is necessary to trust that judgement can be exercised by local authorities. In this case, an appeal must be in the hands of the statesmen on what should be due well enough. We have said in our remarks that the Council of State and the Department should review the frequent appeal that has occurred, and see if it has developed a practice that is now slipping out in relation to the intention that it is the primary settlement municipality to be referred to if one cannot cope. But there is a very big difference between saying that this practice should be tightened up and saying that we should not have discretion, and that local authorities cannot say yes directly without involving the UDI. It's going to be a very bureaucratic and problematic system if we were initially to be very square when it comes to moving refugees even in the first five-year period. The problem is that if they have such a strong, strong desire to move, and they have a connection that makes them want to move somewhere else, integration is going to be incredibly bad in the municipality they're in, because they're just sitting there waiting for the time they can move. There is also one reason why we might have to look at why housing policy should be different in order to be able to identify those who have very strong links with some other areas, and with those who live elsewhere in the country, so as to avoid the issue of resettlement. They should be moved as part of the primary housing. There I think you have a lot to go on when it comes to getting better in the selection of where people are going to live. But we're going to meet those challenges as we get to them. I think that at the moment we have first and foremost a challenge in terms of housing in general, which needs to be solved. One of the problems now is that there are a lot of people who say yes to settle in a municipality they prefer not to live in, just to settle in. In two years they'll still be in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e982	What makes a composite successful? It will vary from person to person and from community to community. Expectations, or lack of such, preconceivements both in the debt and in the individual local environment, the possibility of work, housing, language, education, interpersonal relations, neighbourhoods, respect for and knowledge of each other – many factors are involved. The centre party wants a greater degree of preparation before a settlement finds its place, while at the same time wanting to remove bottlenecks that today prevent a rapid emigration from reception and a rapid integration into a community for refugees. There's a need for a big message, and it's already a big message. We look forward to a closer clarification, both of the successful integration policies and those that clearly need improvement. An element that, in our view, needs to be clarified is the connection between the individual and the individual, either family or otherwise, of people who already live in a municipality. I guess there's one of the things that makes things so big today, especially in Oslo, but also in other big cities. It's a long way from looking at what's going to lie in the bottom before a settlement, and at glueing people to a municipality for five years, as I understand Carl I. Hagen. His alternative is either that or, if necessary, having the integration effort followed with the individual in the same way as the piece price in the health care centre, which is already established. We don't think this is a good signal for those municipalities that accept refugees, and that set up a little longer term. And we're not going to forget that some of those who, for a period of time, bused outside the municipality they originally came to, are moving back. We want to stick to the regulation of today's social services law. The possibility of a refugee asking for help in the municipality in which he or she has to be in for a short period of time also applies to other people in this country who are moving for some time and who need urgent help in a difficult situation. Measures to improve first-time construction may also be taken to follow up the qualification support provided by a selection of yours. It's supposed to secure more refugees the opportunity to get work faster. The Equalisation Communication advocates an additional social welfare scheme for people who have not bid for so long in this country that they have the right to full popular protection. It was a social welfare scheme that the Progress Party thought was completely unnecessary. I think it's going to be a good arrangement for the individual who comes under it, either because they're older or disabled, or for other reasons. I also think there is a good signal to some of the municipalities that are now somewhat deterred from receiving more refugees because they know that they have some aging refugees who need social assistance and who have been in the municipality longer than the integration cover. Let me say finally: I understand that when it comes to the human vision that reflects here, there is a distance between the proposers and the multiples in the committee. In fact, for individuals who have very special experiences that can make it harder than too many others to find root-fixed, it is a matter of arranging for a special group of spellbands to be inserted. Stavnsband has been abolished in Norway several years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1004	I want to arrest where the representative Meltveit Kleppa left off. In the proposal and the document here you can read a difference of opinion. Where the Progress Party is talking about outsourced, the majority is talking about settling down. Where the Progress Party is talking about sending back, the majority is talking about including. This, of course, is a secondary residence problem because we have two parties. We have the individual who needs to find a new place to live, and it's just about the fact that even unfettered people have social needs, that even unfettered applicants think they can find opportunities. And that's this need that we're set to cover somehow. On the other hand, of course, the municipality also has its needs, which is to plan and facilitate. The progress party here chooses a way of taking the municipal party and assumes that it serves everyone who needs to move. I think it's going to be completely wrong. It may be that someone does not know his own best, and it may also be that by entering into a real dialogue, someone cannot agree with the authorities, but having as a general rule to use law and coercion and not taking into account that we are individual individuals with our own feelings and needs and opportunities as the starting point for a successful establishment becomes completely unreasonable to me. Our view is that we need to find measures here, i.e. extending measures, not measures against, which are restrictive measures and which the Progress Party then chooses. I see that the government has renewed the public sector as its project, and we wholeheartedly support that. And the logical and individual approach angle is then to soften something on the legislation, make sure that the different instances involved better interact and engage in dialogue so that you can get individually correct solutions. I guess the starting point for the project of modernising public enterprises is not just efficiency, but better quality. That's what we need in this case: not a new rule of law, but a new attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1013	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1016	I feel the need to ask questions back to SV. This is the comment that SV is associated with the Right. In the introduction to the note, they indicate that the general rule applies, but further down it says that they have recorded that there is frequent review of the decision of the municipalities to refuse living in these cases. This means indirectly that SV believes that the refugees win in too many cases. That's what you're saying here. I'm a little concerned that it can't possibly be SV's opinion. So I'd like you to clarify what is meant by this comment that you're dealing with the Right transform in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1021	The President will take note of the fact that the speech should be addressed to the President and not directly to the speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1024	I'll clarify this. We were in the first part of the comment, as we see it, explaining the actual situation. Nor do we, like the Right, manage to run from the fact that it is increasingly – and especially in Oslo – that decisions are being reviewed. So it might be right, as it's almost suggested, that we could have made our own comment, where we say that our way of attacking this isn't the same as Right. The right is that this practice should be delineated, while we want to look at the practice of the municipality, because we know that when the county council intervenes, it is because the rules of the social services law have not been sufficiently complied with, as they are interpreted. We would like to defend the law on social services and also say that in order for the municipalities to do this, we probably need to have a slightly more flexible arrangement in relation to where the grants go and how the municipalities, that is, the real municipality of residence and the municipality of relocation, can cooperate on such things. Some of our hopes for the renewed public sector are that we can make use of these things in a better and more flexible way for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1033	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1036	When refugees arrive in Norway, they are the responsibility of the State until the application has been processed and asylum or residence has been granted. Then, of course, they are to be settled in a municipality. And to stimulate the settlement of refugees, we provide integration grants from the state. The purpose of the settlement is, inter alia, to: contributing to the fastest possible integration into working and social life. Then we know that work, language training, well-being and contact with friends and family are one of the most important things to succeed. Experience has also shown that refugees who take their own initiative and take responsibility for their own life situation become more independent of public services than those who take such initiatives and self-determination to a lesser extent. In the case of residence, therefore, the Foreign Affairs Directorate attaches great importance to the individual refugee’s own wishes, to residence near family and friends, and to the possibility of work or education. In my opinion, the strength of today's system lies in the individual assessment of social services in the case of relocation. To replace this individual assessment with a legal requirement that generally limits the migration of refugees during the integration grant period, I think will be very problematic. In reality, there will be a removal ban for refugees who live by social assistance, and I disagree that one should introduce. For some, the new life in a foreign country works well and satisfactorily. In the case of others, who have problems in the labour market, who lack relatives and friends living elsewhere in the country, or who have problems for other reasons, it is right to allow them to move. For some, moving will be a natural and proper step in an establishment phase in a new country. It would not be appropriate to introduce provisions making it impossible for refugees to move where they can get work or training. We know a little bit about how the displacement pattern among refugees is. Preliminary results from an evaluation of housing strategies and secondary migration that Fafo is about to complete show that well over half of the 20,000 refugees who settled in 1994 and 1995 and 1996 remained in the municipality of residence at the end of 1999. The size of the movement varied from region to region. In Fafo’s study, both refugees and municipalities state the importance of family, friends and work, or the prospect of work, as the main reasons for moving. Those who have moved are essentially expressing the fact that the move has led to increased well-being. Frequent relocations in some municipalities may hamper the organisation of work and education and the ability of individuals to take care of themselves. Therefore, a refugee moving and applying for social assistance in another municipality can be referred back to the previous municipality. However, it is assumed that this municipality has a standing offer, and that moving back is not unreasonable in relation to the individual’s right to choose the municipality of residence. Thus, the individual has the right to choose the municipality of residence, but no unconditional right to social assistance in a new municipality. I think it is much more useful to reinforce language training and the provision of work, preferably in combination, instead of proposing negative financial measures aimed at those who actually choose to move. Then we're going to get the integration, which I think is very important both for it and for society too, at the same time as it itself, I think, will reduce the displacement. This will give Stortinget ample opportunity to discuss even wider when dealing with the integration message, which is right around the corner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1059	So the debate is on case No. Four o'clock. [[Footing, see page 618]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1073	This proposal essentially contains proposals on two different issues, namely the implementation of a so-called 'Fastbo' scheme for the homeless and people with low living capacity, and the granting of a grant to the State budget for 2000 for the establishment of housing for the homeless. The question of offers to the homeless has been dealt with several times in Stortinget in recent years. It was thoroughly treated in connection with St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on housing for young disadvantaged people, when housing policy for the homeless was perhaps the area of which there was the broadest agreement to be prioritised in the future. A wide range of measures, including: municipal action plans were proposed, both by the then government and by various members of the Committee. The immediate-bo question was then raised by the Workers' Party and SV in a proposal that did not receive a majority. At the time, it was based on the establishment of schemes in line with the municipal action plans and on the choice of different types of measures to be taken by municipalities. So there is no doubt, as can be seen from the last year's budget review, that homeless people are the group that has the highest priority in the field of housing policy from the whole of Stortinget. There might be a discussion about the pace, how much happens and how much is going to happen. The proposers have wanted more appropriations this year, and the creation of a so-called immediate-bo solution. The Ministry replied by letter to the Committee that, within the appropriations available, the priority of the homeless has been the priority and that all the projects applied for have been supported. Furthermore, there is cooperation with the largest cities, which are about to strengthen the supply of the type of book-collective, mentioned in the immediate-bo solution, for those who have little residence, such as typical drug users and psychiatric patients, of whom we have many, and who may be the main nucleus of the heavy homeless around. The Committee has been on its way to Denmark in the autumn and, among other things, look at the situation in Copenhagen in relation to the homeless, and it has included proposals as an example of how to do so. The majority have argued that the plans for prioritisation should be followed, but when there is still a problem with measures for the homeless, when applications have not been rejected, and when a development project is in progress, it may mean that there is a need to strengthen information for municipalities that they will receive money if they have projects. That's what in many ways is the conclusion of the correspondence we've had with the ministry and the clear priority that the majority of the Stortinge have always given this area. The majority of the Committee believes that this means that there might be a budget line of your own, even if we see that there can be a little less flexibility if we have a separate budget line for homeless projects, because it makes it clear that this is an area of money and priority that municipalities can receive in relation to applications. The other thing that the Committee as a whole stresses is that immediate measures for the homeless must be flexible and adapted to the requirements and desires of the standard, size and design that are appropriate. This means that in this area, the standard requirements that have otherwise been common to use should not be used in order to provide support for the allocation of housing. It also shows the experience of Copenhagen, where they built completely different types of housing for different groups of homeless people. Among other things, residents of Greenland and Eskimo were offered housing in the vicinity of the berths. It was of modules, simply containers, but a place to live that was adapted to their connection, and a place where they wanted to be. We hope that by getting our own budget line – we have said that when we are going to deal with the budget for 2001 in 14 days – it will be a great probability that the majority, based on what we have written in the budget line, will go in to establish a separate budget line for this purpose, first and foremost to make it clear to the municipalities that here is the own money and the opportunity to receive project support. Because there have been some concessions that despite this high priority that has been in this area for two years, the projects have not been breeding well enough to solve the problems of the homeless. At the same time, we have to admit to ourselves that there are some homeless people who don't want a permanent dwelling, who have problems living, and who simply need a bed when the cold sets in in the autumn, who don't want to have four walls, for four walls make it impossible to live. We have to live with people living in the open the parts of the year it is not harmful, but we have to have an offer for a bed when the cold enters this country. The majority have not chosen to support the desire to provide more money in the current year's budget. Firstly, we are now in November, so that would really mean nothing at all. Of course, it's a selection proposal that you have to show that you want to do something for the homeless. It is quite possible to do so, but in practice it will not be particularly important for the real measures of the homeless to be given money in this budget or in the next year's budget. We ask for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes, but will come back to the real substance of this proposal when we are going to examine the budget for 2001. There is a minority who want both appropriations and a review of the proposal now, but the majority is for us to come back to this in the budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1096	The Declaration of Accession of the Government of Stoltenberg states: ‘Good economy is ensuring work for everyone and a fair distribution.The vast majority in our country have work, security and well-being. Our common task is now to raise the minority." In Norway today it is approx. 6 000 non-residents. ==References== 65 pst. they live in the largest cities. We know that this group is composed: 23 pst. of whom are in prison, and 18 pst. lives, inter alia: at the hospital. In addition, more than 400 of the homeless are responsible for children. These are numbers from St.meld. No 50 for 1998-99, the dithering message. We know that association with the labour market is crucial in relation to having a good financial situation. But it is very difficult to get work without a fixed stay. That's why it's necessary to have a place to live. All parties believe, as is stated in the vote, that the homeless must be an important part of Norwegian housing policy. When we treated St.meld. No 49 for 1997-98, on the establishment of housing for young and disadvantaged people, it was agreed during the treatment that a stepping-up plan should be put in place to build more reasonable rental dwellings. Here it was also pointed out that it is absolutely essential that the municipalities make plans for the construction of dwellings for this group. But both the state and the municipalities have a responsibility as large owners of land, and that is correct, as we said in the treatment of St.meld. No 49, that the country also has to go through its areas in order to possibly help with reasonable plots. When, in a letter to the Committee of State Council Sylvia Brustad dated 19 October, it is emphasised that ‘to the extent that project applications are submitted to the homeless, they will be able to receive commitments already now’, it tells us that there is no need for more funding in the current year’s budget. The work that is now under way by the Government regarding cooperation with the five largest city municipalities is therefore very important, especially because we know, as I said, that 65 pst. of the homeless are there. With active participation from these municipalities, we believe in the Workers' Party that this is the way to go. Which solutions are to be chosen from the municipalities as the right ones, I think the municipalities themselves are best placed to assess. For us, the main goal is that there should be funds within the chapter. 581 item 75 Housing grants for the establishment, repair and rental of dwellings, so that the projects can be realised. If it turns out that the Stroksbo scheme is a measure the municipalities will try, we think it is positive. And here, as I said, the letter from the Council of State is clear: there are funds for such a project for the current year. What is missing are good plans from municipalities that have that kind of problem. To this issue, there is a special note from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish National Council, where the Council of State is asked to make it immediately clear to the relevant bodies that there is a subsidy to be paid for action against the homeless. And to put it a little simple: it almost sounds like the municipalities working on these questions are going to be treated as if they were young children. When we treated St.meld. No 49 the government of Bondevik stressed that it was the municipalities that had to make action plans. In my opinion, the Government now has a strategy that is right and that will improve the situation. Very familiar are the municipalities attributed and asked to start planning. So to the comment of the majority that there should be a specific budget line for the homeless. Here, too, the answer from the Council of State is clear. It's very unfortunate, not only because it has to do with flexibility, but it's also a matter of ringing. And the third question is, how are we going to be able to say what is the right distribution when we split that entry? This year's budget is, in our opinion, giving increased and good value to the housing sector, and here I do not have to refer to the figures. The budget agreement says that the government has a good policy and that there will be a clear improvement in the 2001 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1127	I have noticed that all parties recognize that the homeless pose a problem in today's Velferds-Norway, and that it is a political responsibility to provide this group of people with a housing offer that is worthy of the Norwegian welfare community. However, the main responsibility for housing measures for disadvantaged people lies formally in the municipalities, but we cannot, as parliamentarians, discharge our responsibilities. Of course, there is also a significant responsibility on state authorities to facilitate the useable framework conditions that can help to streamline local authorities’ ability to address the challenges of homeless people in Norway in a better way than hitherto. However, it is now the case that the creation of housing solutions for the homeless is already a priority within the housing subsidy framework and that homeless people are a very central target group in Norwegian housing policy. Unfortunately, despite these efforts, it does not seem enough to remove the problem of homeless people. I record that the SV proposer believes that there is a need of 55 million. kr over the government budget for this year, so the ministry does not see such a need. The majority of the committee, including the Progress Party in this matter, sees no reason to doubt that there is anything wrong with the department's assessment in this way. However, the Progress Party is in favour of a majority comment stating that ‘the visibility of this speaks for the creation of a separate budget line’, which may be earmarked for immediate measures for the homeless, and that one will come back to this during the examination of the 2001 State budget. Such a comment makes it clear that immediate measures for the homeless must have a strong priority in line with more permanent solutions for the same group. A unanimous committee then also stresses the need for immediate solutions for the homeless in Norway. I would also like to express some optimism about the situation of the disadvantaged on the housing market, precisely in view of the clearly expressed willingness of all parties to do something with this never so small blot on the Norwegian welfare community. On this basis, the Progress Party agrees with the majority's position that this proposal should be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1144	There are 6,000 homeless people in Norway. Being without a fixed dwelling, being a foreigner or a street child is a wretched, unparalleled one. Obviously, society hasn't done enough to help these people. It is also obvious that there is a lack of municipal resources for this measure that can address the misery. At the same time, it is clear that the problem is part of the general pressure on the housing market, which makes it difficult for too many groups to obtain housing at an acceptable price, not least in the press areas. The organisation of land and a positive policy by the municipality when it comes to rented dwellings would have a good effect, I believe – for example. Bodø Municipality can indicate that it is possible to obtain housing for students, who may also be homeless, at least for a period when the study starts. The Christian People's Party clearly sees that the explanation for the labyrinth's municipal efforts is the possibility to finance the property on approx. NOK 320 000 per year. unit, according to the municipal minister's calculations. Nevertheless, it is reasonable especially, we thought, to grant large sums to the estate of dwellings for the current year at the end of November. There's a reason to point out that it's necessary to get housing out of the $13 million. kr available for the purpose. For this reason, the Christian People's Party is concerned that the Ministry should consider whether it is possible to reduce municipal property for housing to the most difficult – the homeless. We need maximum flexibility to get housing, both as temporary and as permanent solutions. For this reason, it is also wise to separate the objective into a separate budget line. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister of Local Affairs informed that few applications for funds have been received for housing projects for the homeless. That's why we think it's important to involve volunteer organisations in a positive way. I would like to make it clear that it is good that the five largest cities are working to get a holistic help for the homeless. These people often have poor writing skills, and then it helps little just to offer a roof over their heads. The Christian People's Party believes that we are dependent on voluntary organizations, such as the Salvation Army, the Evangelical Center and the Church's City Mission, picking up people on the streets and feeding them, roofing over their heads and a bed. These are often crisis solutions, but absolutely vital for those who freeze. We believe that in a short time and with modest resources, these organizations could now help more than we can handle with great promises to the municipalities. But few people know it's $13 million. kr available for the purpose. It is therefore necessary for the Council of State to state that immediate action can be taken. Then, as winter after winter, it could have our provisional measures to save life and health, perhaps being more durable measures for the homeless, so that one can secure them a worthwhile life, for that is the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1163	There is a need for a force and joint effort between state, local and interested organisations and institutions to ensure more housing-free roofs. There are enough few, to whom Erna Solberg is in, who want to live their lives under open heaven. They're not the ones we're talking about, they're all the others. The Equalisation Communication discussed – I have heard as the first public document – strategies and measures to achieve this. The central party is satisfied that several Councils of State of the Stoltenberg government, in cooperation, follow up the immediate measures proposed. I would like to highlight in particular the previous government's strategy of more committed cooperation between the Government and the largest cities – I understand it is well under way. We're dealing with a group where many people have drug problems, mental problems. We're dealing with a group that needs very special follow-up to get a better everyday life. The Equalisation Communication states that the lack of housing and the protection of non-residents, to some extent, slows the flow of treatment. Others today have been involved in the relationship between having a dwelling and having the opportunity to work and education. We believe there is a need for visibility of what funds are available today, yes, we think it actually becomes too remote to assume that if there were several applications, there would also have been support for several measures. But they haven't searched. There is a need for an active involvement with those who can be current applicants. That's why we ask the Council of State immediately to make it clear to those who may be the potential promoters of several housing units, that there are funds here. We also thought it was a good idea to see the means of housing for homeless people in a separate post. We also believe that it is necessary to look at the distribution of efforts between the municipality and the state. It is not difficult to agree that it is the municipalities that are responsible – of course – but it is not an unwillingness on the part of the municipalities that no more housing has been built, that no more applications have been sent. In fact, I believe that, regardless of what else we have to mean about the municipalities' economy, we have to be a few that measures like this are about prioritizing within a very tight budget. The centre party supports both SV proposals. We're also giving our support to allow $55 million. kr in the year’s budget. Then a question is asked that is understandable: is this 55 million? only a selection proposal? The answer is no. Our support for allowing $55 million. kr in the year's budget is support for a joint active commitment to immediate action, to get modules up and stand as quickly as possible, in an interaction between those who have the competence and the ability to do so. The Committee was in the fall of Lake Sandness – the other members of the Committee have much more experience than I do when it comes to visiting different establishments where one with limited resources and with simple construction style quickly has more roofs over its head. The Sandness Lake judgment was an asylum reception. Here one with the 55 million plus the 13 could have quite a lot of homeless roofs over the head quite quickly. I think it's embarrassing for the Norwegian people that we should be so slow in this area that we're going to operate here with a group that for years to come can count to 6,000, where we know that the exact number can be even larger, and where we know that there has been very little improvement even now in the last few years. The Committee has also been in Denmark in the fall. We've seen a completely different commitment there, a completely different willingness to use also non-traditional solutions to secure more than one dwelling. Our support for this one-time lift is based on a recognition that we do not do enough for individuals who wear out in this country. There is no specific criticism of the current municipal minister. There is a recognition that one here over several years of alternating governments with different documents that have been presented and discussed in this room, has nevertheless come too short in relation to the measures many parties have had at this point. This is where a common task, a lift, needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1191	It seems a little bit odd to be standing here and trying to throw 55 million. kr on the council, and she dives away. I am absolutely sure that if I had tried to throw these 55 million to Hero's reception, to the Church's City Mission or to the Salvation Army, they would not have appeared away. Then it had not taken many days before it had stood dwellings that it could be moved into, that had had an acceptable standard, and where one had had such follow-up as at least is a minimum. I am aware that this is the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo, and I am aware that when we propose this, it is a criticism of the Municipality of Oslo, and of some other major cities, not to have taken it seriously, seriously. That's bad morals. We want the government and the department to go in and not run the municipalities, but give the municipalities so good incentives to get this in place that they see themselves able to do it. For municipalities, it is not only about establishing dwellings, but also about establishing them into a larger care pattern, and into a larger organisation. But it would have only taken a few days to get this in place if someone else had, and it would have only taken a few days to get it done if it had been a refugee stream we'd been talking about. I've been trying to track down what the department has done that means that we haven't gotten any more speed, and I've let myself say that the department wanted to have a housing policy consultation, where, among other things. Oslo Municipality was invited. The Municipality of Oslo had been given five minutes to say something about its situation. As far as I understand it, they didn't even meet, and if this is right, I realize they didn't meet. But then I don't realize that the council can say that she's done what she's going to do, because we need something other than a brief meeting and some official letters, which we get every year, stating that there's some money here. It is clear that we believe that an extraordinary effort should be made here, and we have been given the understanding from the Council of State that an extraordinary effort should be made. Then I hear a little around, and then I just can't track down from those who should have been recipients of the message of the extraordinary, that there's something extraordinary other than that the problem is extraordinary, and that's it. That is why we maintain the proposal and the intention behind the proposal. Exceptional means are needed, rapid extraordinary efforts are needed, and local authorities need help to do so. Now the 6,000 – there are several homeless people now, and the way the market works, we know very well that it doesn't stop there – have a wide range of people. There are debt victims, there are students, there are people who have split up the family and who for a moment don't have a place to live. Those we're talking about now are a relatively small group of 6,000, but big enough, who have poor living capacity as well. These are the ones we're talking about when we're talking about instantbo solutions, which the Workers' Party and SV agreed not too long ago. And it's not impossible to get to this in a fast way. The rapporteur said in his introduction that we were talking about different offers, about alternative offers, and that we wanted a separate budget line. I think it's right with a separate budget line to mark this, as the majority say, so that we'll also see that something happens when something happens. But why doesn't something happen? That's the big question. Aud Gaundal says that we treat the municipalities as young children when we don't trust them to go in to try to solve this properly by themselves. That's not what this is about. It's simply a big boost and a difficult thing, and that's why we want to go in and give this extra incentive. We don't exempt the municipalities, but we're going to cooperate with them, and we want this to happen now. I have one little thing that I think belongs to this, because what is happening now is very serious to the homeless. But it is also the case that Norwegian society is changing. Every day we meet homeless people in the streetscape. Two or three years ago, this happened much less often and only in a few places. Then we got pretty upset about this, but now I meet a lot of people who don't get upset anymore, who don't see it. It's kind of become a part of the cityscape. It's this extra effect, that you don't do anything that's terribly dangerous, and that makes us have to act quickly for them. We have to act so that it doesn't appear this way, so that our society doesn't rot. I think this is a symptom of a society that has big problems, and it's about acting now. I am referring to the proposal by the Central Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1220	Helge Bjørnsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1223	I think it is very good that the situation of the homeless now gets a lot of attention. An important objective of the state is to stimulate municipalities to make good housing solutions for this group. In the case of emergency measures for the winter, I would like to stress that the Social Services Act clearly obliges municipalities to ensure that residents are given shelter over their heads and protection for winter cold. In other words, such emergency solutions must be provided within the municipalities' budgets. Municipalities cannot let homeless sleep out in winter. As Minister of Housing, I am also very committed to helping the homeless, and in particular I want to speed up the work of the municipalities to establish good housing solutions especially for this group. This has been taken up by the Government. It is wrong when the representative Bjørnsen says that little has been done by the government. Good housing solutions for the homeless and other disadvantaged are central to the package of measures for a solidarity housing policy that I presented on behalf of the Government as early as July this year. In view of this, efforts towards this group have been proposed and strengthened in the budget currently under consideration in this House. The level of activity of the housing allowance has been proposed to increase by 152 million. kr. The increase is over 30 pst. and can provide 750 to 1000 more rental homes than this year. The government's commitment to measures against the homeless is also reflected in the Social Minister's draft budget for next year, which proposes a total of 15 million. kr to activation measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and measures for the homeless. Six million. kr of this appropriation is earmarked for development measures against the homeless in the largest cities. As I have written in a letter to the municipal committee, the residenceless is the most priority group within the housing grant scheme. Therefore, applications for projects and housing solutions for homeless first priority within this housing grant framework. The municipalities will also be covered up to 50-60 pst. the costs of such housing arrangements. For an average cost of 800000 kroner, the municipalities will have covered up to 480 000 kroner from the country. As a follow-up to, among others: this year, as the Stortinget is well known, and as others have also pointed out in their contributions, cooperation with the largest urban municipalities was launched to improve the housing situation of the homeless. I can report that this work is well under way. Many of the approximately 6,000 homeless people in Norway have a housing problem, but we know that very many also have additional problems, such as: are associated with drug problems and mental disorders. The homeless with complex problems need housing solutions where they can be followed up. Development work is therefore aimed at ensuring that the homeless are provided with comprehensive assistance, where housing policy instruments are linked to health and social services where necessary. The objective is simply to develop a chain of alternative forms of housing, the need for health and social services linked to the needs and development of the user. As the need for assistance is reduced, one must be able to step up the chain. I think the community's involvement in the development work suggests that they're busy getting good solutions. I have great faith that this project will trigger activity, also in more municipalities than the ones that were invited, so that we can develop more good solutions for this group. For this year, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set aside 5 million. kr for the purpose, of which 3,5 million. kr goes to the start of the development work. The house bank also has funds. Then I would like to comment on the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left, which proposes an additional allocation of 55 million. kr for the current year. We're left with approx. One month to Christmas. I am also very concerned about the situation of people who have no place to live. I think that is reflected in the draft budget for next year and in the development I have just referred to, and also the fact that this group has first priority within this scheme. If there are more applications, municipalities will be promised money already this year. In other words, it's not money. What is needed are several good solutions, plans and ideas about what can be done. There is therefore no need for additional appropriations in the year's budget for this purpose. I don't show up, as the representative Bjørnsen said, but it must be allowed to question realism in believing that one should be able to spend 55 million. kr in a month and get solutions to the group we're talking about here. It is not the government that builds dwellings, it must take care of municipalities in cooperation with housing construction teams and preferably non-governmental organisations. We have to make sure that the money is there, and that the laws and regulations are adapted so that we get this done, and that the government is most closely involved. With regard to the proposal to establish a separate budget line for the establishment of dwellings for the homeless, I do not think that is a good solution. I believe that earmarking a separate item for this will counteract the good use of the housing allowance framework and also counteract the flexibility that I believe is actually necessary, especially in the case of disadvantaged people. It is important that the state and the municipalities address the situation of the homeless. I believe that the Government has also contributed through the Action Plan for a Solidarity Housing Policy and the budget for next year. I have great faith that we will produce good results, and we have good contact with all the municipalities in the country. In July this year a letter was sent to all the municipalities of the country, asking them to give priority to housing policy. We sent our action plan for a solidarity of housing policy, including: the situation of the homeless was well advanced. We have had more than five minutes' meeting with the Municipality of Oslo, and with regard to the consultation to which the representative of the Bjørnsen referred, Oslo City Council was the only ones who did not meet. Everyone else who was involved in that consultation was very pleased. But I have in retrospect – because the political leadership in Oslo did not meet up there – had more meetings with the Municipality of Oslo, and I feel that we have a good dialogue. We have done a lot with regard to contact with the municipalities, especially with the big cities, but also with the other municipalities. Of course, we're going to keep doing that, because we're as impatient as the Storting is, finding solutions for the group of us that might be the group that has the worst in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1249	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 618]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1262	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1271	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Odd Eriksen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1417	To these chapters, Odd Eriksen has put forward the following proposals on behalf of the Workers' Party: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjective:CronesExpenditure:571Room grants to municipalities60Inhabitant grants/expenditure equalization, increased by 29 483 608 000 to 30 489 608 0001 006 000 000572Room grants to county municipalities60Inhabitant grants/expenditure equalization, increased by SEK 15 672 543 000 to SEK 16 140 668 000468 125 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1487	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a new report on the integration of immigrants into Norwegian society based on the principle that immigrants must adapt to Norwegian laws and regulations, as well as to Norwegian culture and tradition, and to respect the fact that Norway is a society based on Christian fundamental values.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit the necessary legislative proposals so as not to allow the presentation of prayers to speakers from mosques.’ The Committee had ceased: Document No 8:34 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1515	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals so that refugees seconded in a Norwegian municipality with State integration grants may not receive public financial support for living if they settle in another Norwegian municipality.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1538	During the debate, Helge Bjørnsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23.ana.ud304e1618	There is no record.
