ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e53	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 10 minutes to the Centre Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e60	The proposal proposes a new law on watchkeeping which will replace the law on watchkeeping of 13 May 1988 No. 29. The main objective of the legislative proposal is to improve the quality of the weighting services, improve official control and strengthen legal certainty for those coming into contact with the weighing instruments. The main features of the previous law are proposed further. The hearing bodies are, with few exceptions, in favour of the proposals in the vote. However, there are objections to the intensification of dog use, the extension of the obligation on weights to legitimise and the rise in the border between the tasks of police and security agencies. It's a unanimous committee behind the setting. The Committee agrees that the law should also apply to state and local authorities providing watchkeeping services in competition with private watchkeeping companies and also support the continuation of current practices in the field of bodyguard services, as provided by the Ministry. In addition, the Committee agrees that such activities by the watchkeeping companies are designated as accompanying services. Liability for approval and control of the watchkeeping companies shall, in the opinion of the Committee, be added to the police officers. The Committee supports the view of the Ministry that the conditions for obtaining authorisation should be strengthened and that all authorisations should be granted to undertakings and not to individuals today. The Committee agrees that the requirement of good repute is maintained and notes that current legislation does not capture cases where the instrumentors commit crime during the period of employment and that the Ministry considers that rules allowing for subsequent background checks should be provided for by regulation. The Committee asks the Ministry to draw up rules ensuring a background check even after addition, where appropriate by carrying out checks in the context of the annual reporting. In the opinion of the Committee, if the instruments are intended to be used in serious criminal offences, the employer must be able to give special notice. The Committee asks for a response to the Storting on how the intention of regular background control and warning of criminal offences will be respected. The Committee is concerned that there is a good and satisfactory provision of training for the operators and agrees with the selection that the provision of instrument training should be more of a public responsibility. The Committee has also noted that this issue will be addressed by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. In this respect, the Committee asks the Ministry to assess whether a satisfactory training offer can be organised and implemented by the Police College in such a way that the Police College has the professional responsibility for the development of the courses and, where appropriate, that it is offered as a mission activity from the Police College to the watchkeeping companies. In the opinion of the Committee, the instrumentation should be legitimised and identification presented to the police when requested. The same applies to the person who has been intervened against. The ID cards shall contain information on the company, position, employment number and name. The Committee has taken note of the objections raised by the watchkeeping companies to, inter alia, the identification. because of the increased risk of threats and represals and have an understanding of the desire to improve the safety of the instruments. The Committee therefore considers that there may be a need for increased criminal law protection for the weights and refers to the comments made under points. 2.13 in the position. The Committee agrees with the Committee and the Ministry that the admission of security companies’ employees to the carrying of firearms should cease and refers to the restrictive position on arms also in force in the police. The Committee has also noted that no objections have been raised from the industry to the change. The Committee points out that maintaining public order and security is a police task. However, watchkeeping companies play an important role in helping to create security and security in society. Thus, in cooperation with the police, they will be a useful supplement. The Committee is committed to clarifying the distribution of responsibilities between the police and officers' seats and the watchkeeping companies and agrees that the police law provides good guidance for such clarification. We have placed great emphasis on people's right to safety and believe that it is natural that new services should be created to meet such an increasing need. The Committee sees an increasing need for security services in private homes, such as: in case of an intrusion. One sees that there may be a slipping transition between ‘outbreak’ and ‘outbreak’ and ‘outbreak’. The Committee calls on the Ministry to monitor developments in this area carefully and, if necessary, to come back with proposals for a clearer distinction between police and watchkeeping duties if actual developments so require. The Committee stresses that an important premise for any legislative provision in this area must be to ensure the security of life, health and private property of the population. Finally, the Committee points out that the Ministry of Proposition states that the police have not had sufficient resources to perform the authorisation and control function in a satisfactory manner and that the legislative proposal provides for strengthening the control function. It has been estimated that at least five new posts are needed by the approval authorities in order to obtain the desired escalation of this work. The Committee believes that it is important that the legislative changes currently being made be respected. The Committee therefore assumes that the Ministry will follow up the proposal in the annual budgets. In the end, I allow myself to ask that the Storting join the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e94	In the light of the rapporteur's review and the unanimity in the matter, it is unnecessary for me to say very much. However, I would like to make a few comments on the most difficult and crucial aspect of this proposition, namely the borderline between the activities of the police and the security companies. It is important to establish – as the Ministry of Justice does – that maintaining public order and security is a police task and that law enforcement in organised forms is a public task. However, in today's society, it is clear that watchkeeping companies are playing an important role in helping to create security and security in society. In other words, the security companies are an important and useful supplement to the police. I would like to stress that the activities of the watchkeeping companies must be based on cooperation with the police for the benefit of both parties. In the light of the review by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, it is understandable that the sample did not now find it possible to formulate a rule of law which could clearly limit the police’s duties and the duties of the watchkeeping companies. However, it is important to state that Section 26 of the Police Act prohibiting private law enforcement is still to be used as a starting point for drawing up a limit on what the watchkeeping companies should be able to do, which is also widely supported in the hearing opinions. Most of the areas in which the watchkeeping companies provide services are unproblematic. However, grey zones exist. Examples are patrols or similar patrols and exploding operations in the event of house wrecks or burglaries. The so - called bodyguard services may also be problematic. The development and practice of these cases must be closely monitored. It is therefore very important that there is an overall committee which asks the Ministry to follow developments closely and, if necessary, to come back with proposals for a clearer distinction between the tasks of the police and the agencies. In the case of uniformation, it is important to establish that there shall be a visible difference between the uniform of a police officer or woman and the uniform of a watchman. No one has to be in any doubt as to whether you are dealing with police or sentinels.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e109	Security and sense of security in society are important. It is clear that in recent developments in society, additional services have become needed. It turns out that we're per. Today there are 6,500 weights around the country, and there is a turnover in this industry of NOK 3 billion. This means that we have to follow this in such a way that we have control of both development, its scale and the qualities associated with the weighting activity. There's a difference between the police and the sentinels, and that should be it. The police are authorized to use power, it's not the weights. The police have the primary judicial authority on a daily basis and shall enforce the rules of law. Guards have no judicial authority, but are complementary to the police for security and control. Police are the public all-person guaranteeer of security and security. Guards constitute a private offer where security and watchkeeping services can be purchased. It is necessary to adhere to Section 26 of the Police Act, which prohibits private law enforcement. That is why the position we are about to adopt today in relation to the law on watchkeeping is important. There is a good review of what goes on in the individual cases given by the rapporteur, and I do not feel the need to comment on so many of these. I just want to state quite simply that it is essential that the police officers carry out the approval of the watchkeeping companies, that demands are made both for age, reputation and fitness and not least that the watchkeeping companies are required to have liability insurance for their business. As regards the control of the watchkeeping companies, we believe that it will be ensured by the establishment of a reporting system, as mentioned in what is already on the table. With regard to staff requirements, the representative Nymo has gone through it. I'm not going to say anything more, but I'm just going to end by saying that it's essential, even in relation to the employees of the guard companies, that we get a proposal for improved criminal protection for these.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e122	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 116]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e136	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 10 minutes to the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes to each of the other groups. In addition, the President will suggest that there will be no replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note. The first speaker is Finn Kristian Marthinsen, who has the floor on behalf of spokesmen for Saka, Åse Wisløff Nilssen, who is a member of Lagginget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e145	Ot. pp. No 56, which we are now dealing with, is a follow-up of St.meld. No 32 for 1997-98 and Innst. S. No 21 for 1998-99 on the principle of public disclosure in the administration, which we discussed in November 1998. As mentioned, Åse Wisløff Nilssen has been the case rapporteur, and on behalf of her, I would like to present the rapporteur's observations. The principle of government publicity is an important prerequisite for a democratic society. The public administration apparatus is established to serve the common interests of society and at the same time the interests of individual citizens. At the same time, however, this apparatus is authorized to intervene in a wide range of legal proceedings and other vital interests of the individual private legal entity. As citizens of society, we should be confident that the rules of the game are being followed by the public. It is also necessary to facilitate an active and informed exchange of words, based on access to information. The public has a special duty to represent and defend the interests of individuals in relation to both the big community and other groups that form a framework for the lives of individual citizens. Transparency within the administration shall help individuals and the public to gain insight into the activities and to address critical issues. The principle of disclosure reinforces legal certainty and provides for control of compliance with laws and regulations in the exercise of public authority. When the Storting dealt with the announcement of the principle of public disclosure in the administration, it was clear that the Government had to come back with proposals in two rounds. Many of the questions raised in the notification require further investigation, and a legislative committee appointed has a deadline of 1 July 2002 to submit its investigation. The Committee assumes that the Government is accelerating the follow-up to the notification. The main changes that come within this odelstungsproposition are among others: an extension of the document concept in order to capture technological developments. At the same time, a full definition of the term «document» has been given in both the Public and the Archive Act, so that no one is in doubt as to what is meant. I quote: "Document: a logically constrained amount of information stored on a medium for later reading, listening, performing or transferring". The record-keeping obligation itself is now regulated by the Public Relations Act in order to make it visible how important this is to the principle of disclosure. Administrative bodies shall keep records in accordance with the provisions of the Archive Act. The Committee is concerned that the Archive Act and the regulations of the Archive Act on record-keeping must not weaken the intentions contained in the Public Service Act. The Committee considers it so important that we have asked for an explanation of the issues relating to the principle of disclosure and the rules on record-keeping. When the new municipal law came, and the municipality was considered as a single administrative body, this led to an unnecessary exemption from the principle of publicity. It is now corrected by the adoption of a file containing annexes to a municipal or municipal elected body, which is to be made public. The Committee considers it important to hold a public debate prior to the political examination of a case, irrespective of whether or not a final decision should be taken. Provision shall also be made to reserve the possibility of obtaining the name of the candidate lists. This provision shall be designed in such a way that management has access but no obligation to exempt information from the public. The applicant himself must request to be exempted from disclosure. However, the candidate list shall indicate the number and gender of applicants for the post. As stated in the comments, the Committee has weighed for and against this very restriction of disclosure by, inter alia, to point to the control effect of the rules on the transparency of employment proceedings. This is important in order to verify that there are no extraneous or immaterial reasons for employment in the public sector. Furthermore, the Committee notes that it should not be stated in the call for proposals that the applicant may choose whether the name should be included in the public candidate list. By using exemptions from public disclosure in the case of names, it may also be appropriate to use more publicity – which should be made known to the applicant before the expiry of the application deadline. The activities of the SND shall initially be governed by the Public Service Act, while at the same time exempting some parts of SND’s activities. The Committee would stress that the principle starting point should be that all public administrations should comply with the provisions of the Public Service Act. However, the Committee understands that there may also be a need to exempt parts of SND’s activities, including: in the case of commercial matters. Finally, the Committee is satisfied that Section 1 of the Public Health Act states that there are also rules on the disclosure of documents for the Stortinget. It follows that, in June 2000, the Stortinget adopted its own rules on the publication of documents for the Stortinget and Stortinget bodies. Thus, the era of generally exempting the Storing from the disclosure principle above.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e179	The case we are dealing with today is the second stage in the implementation of the leadership that was attached to the treatment of St.meld. No 32 on the principle of public disclosure in the administration. The first part was dealt with when the Stortinget before the holiday adopted rules on the publicity of the Stortinget and its organs, which is also proposed in section 1 of the Public Health Act. The third part will come when the Storting is presented with the subject areas that require further investigation by the Government. This step-by-step treatment in Stortinget, which means that we do not have to wait for the entire statutory audit, shows that the Government takes the disclosure law and the principle of publicity seriously. I am pleased that we are now stating that SND should initially be subject to the Public Service Act. For the part of the business that can still be exempted, I would like to make it clear that more publicity needs to be assessed at all times. It is interesting to record the change in attitude that has taken place in SND’s management since the consultation round, by now agreeing with today’s proposal. In the case of other publicly owned companies and companies in which the State holds holdings, this type of company will be assessed in the next round. Even now, on the part of the Workers' Party, we want to clarify that the form of organisation itself should not be decisive for the right to transparency. An important step is that the law is now adapted to technological developments by the fact that information stored differently from the traditional paper document is also covered by the law. The obligation of journalism is now laid down in the Public Health Act. We take seriously the objections raised by the Norwegian Press Association and Norwegian Editors' Association and therefore ask for an explanation of the issues relating to the principle of disclosure and the rules governing the reporting. In this context, it can be noted that during these days the family, culture and administrative committee of the Stortinge treat St.meld. No 22 for 1999-2000 on archives, libraries and museums in an ICT time. And what they're doing there is really consistent with what we're saying. So we'll see when we get a new round on this. The reason given by the representative Finn Kristian Marthinsen to grant applicants a right to reserve their right to be placed on public candidate lists, I fully share. It is important to point to the right of individuals themselves by the Administrative Act to have access to the employment issue in question. The other issues in this matter have been raised by Finn Kristian Marthinsen and need not be submitted to any further comments. During my post about exactly two years ago, when we dealt with the principle of disclosure, I put great emphasis on the rule of more publicity. I'll repeat that now. It shall be assessed whether a document may be published in full or in part even if the document may initially be exempted from publication. This is, in fact, an obligation for the administration to consider more openness. I still believe that too many employees of the public administration who hold posts on a daily basis to assess whether a document is public or not need to be strengthened in terms of the principle of public disclosure and better knowledge of the disclosure law. In those areas where Stortinget necessarily still has to wait a time before any legislative revisions can be adopted, it is particularly important that more publicity is practised in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e200	The Public Service Act affects many aspects, but it has a particular interest in the press and the media, which should inform and inform readers and the public in an objective and neutral manner. States, counties and municipalities work on behalf of ordinary people. Consequently, ordinary people should have a kind of right to know what politicians and bureaucrats are doing on their behalf and how their tax money is managed. The State Enterprise and Regional Development Fund is subject to the Public Administration Act, which results in more transparency around institutions that manage large amounts of money — in fact, billions of money. Today, the SND is based on the District Development Fund, the Industrial Fund, the Small Business Fund and the Norske Industriebank A/S. When you can be a member of a government and get a loan of several million dollars for various projects, it goes without saying how important it is for the public to have the opportunity to gain transparency. Therefore, it is important that all information is provided on the table when a store is run on the Vachlevoren foundation. In the past, development funds have disappeared in bankruptcies, debt restructurings, liquidations and to badly managed companies. All government shall comply with the provisions of the Public Service Act, which means greater transparency of state enterprises. The interest of the media in the transparency of departments' file has increased considerably in recent years. Of the 50 000 dossiers requested by the media last year, about 8 000 were excluded from the public. The reactions to the imposition of fees for different copies of documents create reactions, especially in the media, which are major consumers of such documents. The Party considers that it is appropriate that a copy and a copy or a copy of the document be free of charge. Where there are additional costs of copying audio tapes, films, videos and other audiovisual media, payments shall be made in our opinion at cost and nothing else. It is imperative to ensure that access to new technologies does not restrict current transparency based on the Publicity Act. Now it is not intended, for example, that the NSB should be exempted from reporting accidents and near-accidents to the Railway Authority because the Public Service Act provides the media with access to the report. It'll be the same thing as breaking the law and the intentions behind it. In the past, it has not been possible to know how some bombers use and used the money they had to collect from the drivers. They have refused the public to take a closer look at them in the cards. Toll companies cannot refuse public transparency when subsequent disclosures show that 10 pst. the money went only to operate the stations, and not to new road projects as foreseen. Using other laws, such as the archival law, to limit the possibilities afforded by the disclosure law, is completely unfair. Rules on record-keeping in the Archive Act shall not weaken the intentions of transparency, as set out in the Public Procurement Act, which the Progress Party considers to be a particular important principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e217	The principle of government publicity is an important prerequisite for a democratic society. Once again, as legislators, we must and must be prepared in relation to the need for change. This is also the case with regard to the disclosure law. In St.meld. No 32 for 1997-98, the central government raised a number of issues about the principle of public disclosure in government. The principles contained in the notification were largely endorsed by the Stortinget. An important issue in this communication is the disclosure law in relation to publicly owned companies. The Committee has stressed that the choice of organisational form should not in itself affect the right of access to public owned activities. In the Centerpartiet we are pleased that it must be made clear in Section 1 of the Public Relations Act that there are also self-regulations on the disclosure of documents for Stortinget. For the treatment of St.meld. No 32 for 1997-98, the Committee said, inter alia: the importance of adapting the rules on record-keeping to electronic developments. There is therefore every reason to be satisfied that the Ministry is now proposing to make the law technology neutral. Norwegian Press Association and Norwegian Editors' Association have stated that the principle of disclosure has been restricted by the regulations of the Archive Act. The Committee does not want the Archive Act and the Archive Act regulations on record-keeping to weaken the intentions contained in the Public Procurement Act. This has also made the Committee visible by asking the Ministry to come back to the Storting and explain the issues relating to the relationship between the principle of public disclosure and the rules on record-keeping. Finally, in the Central Party, we are pleased that the Ministry is now following up the majority view in the Inner East. S. No 21 for 1998-99, that the activities of the SND as a starting point are covered by the Public Service Act. The Committee would stress that the principle starting point should be that all public administrations should comply with the provisions of the Public Service Act. However, the Committee understands that there may also be a need to exempt parts of SND’s activities, including: in the case of commercial matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e230	As the rapporteur did well for, it is that when the Public Relations Act is discussed again in Stortinget, it is to follow up the decisions made earlier. The amendments that now exist are essentially proposals that SV agree with and strengthen the law. There's one exception, and I'll come back to that. Publicity law is one of the pillars of our democracy. It shall ensure transparency for the citizens of the administration and is a prerequisite for an open and lively debate on the decisions to be taken. Transparency shall be required of the person who requires it. It shall not be for the authorities or bureaucracies to decide, on their own discretion, whether or not people should be informed. It is in our opinion the apparatus of power that serves to keep people out of debate and thus keep decisions and decisions in the closed spaces. From this perspective, it is also important that we now make changes in relation to the legalization of the reporting obligation, not make something that we believe is an improvement, but that will be a restriction. I just want to refer to the Civil Ombudsman's reps by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence because they had not filed a letter about the Vardø radar. Through hard work from Bergen's Official Journal and from SV, it now appears that the practice should be better. The objections raised by the Norwegian Press Association and Norwegian Editors' Association regarding journaling in accordance with the regulations and regulations of the Archive Act are important. Therefore, it makes sense when the Judicial Committee has now asked for an explanation to be made of the Storting during the spring of 2001 in which the issues relating to the relationship between the principle of disclosure and the rules on record-keeping are addressed. As regards the proposed change in relation to candidate lists, SV will vote against it. We will continue to have full transparency about the candidate lists in public positions. It is not least important – and it certainly remembers Stortinget that I put a lot of emphasis on it the last time we discussed it – in order to ensure equality. In closed processes, it is still too often for women to be kept down, especially when women are aspirating to top management jobs. And I want to say that if someone wants to say something, you call a man, but if you want to do something, you call a woman. With as much exasperation as there is in public bureaucracy, we believe that there should be more women in top management jobs to get something done. Transparency is important for SV, both for the ability of women to reach and to prevent employment on a political basis. As long as the existing legislative proposal allows the administration to exempt information, there is an opportunity to do so, and it does not want to be part of it. We would remind you that the administration on behalf of the community is to manage the Community's values and resources. It must also be important that the public have the power to verify that the administration considers the most qualified persons. SV will vote against the proposal for Section 6, first paragraph, No. 4 new fourth and fifth sentences and asks that the voting be put up so that it becomes possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e252	The President has indicated that he is in favour of SV when he is in favour of voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e255	The central government prioritised work on the public communication and presented it only six months after the government change, after it had been lying for a long time without progress in the work of the previous Labour Party government. After the disclosure, many important steps have been taken towards greater transparency. New steps are being taken today, and the general impression is that there is a very positive basic tone in the Committee in terms of transparency – there are a number of specific areas. It is suggested that the law should be made technology neutral, that there should be greater transparency in the activities of the SND, and that the regulations of the Archive Act on journalism should not weaken the intentions of the Public Service Act. It makes sense for one to give a brief description of this issue to the Stortinget in spring 2001. Good record-keeping and good record-keeping are crucial when it comes to requiring transparency, and the requirement for transparency is crucial for transparency and a good public debate. On one point, the Left disagrees with the Justice Committee. It is proposed that candidate lists should no longer be public in the sense that all names should be included. This is a change that the central government didn't make, and I'm recording that a unanimous committee and the Central Party and the Christian People's Party are at this point. When the publicity message was discussed in Stortinget, only the Left and SV voted against. The left, like SV, will also vote against today. In our opinion, candidate lists for public positions should contain names of all applicants. It shall be possible for the general public to verify that there are no outside or inconclusive reasons for employment in the public sector. Not only is it a right of others who are party to this, but the public should be involved in ensuring that no external and immaterial consideration is taken into account. Seeking a public position is not a private matter. That is what Georg Apenes has said, who in every respect is on the agenda of privacy. If the local representative Jan Petter Rasmussen applies for the position of port manager in his home town, there is a public matter and therefore the candidate list should include the names of all those who sign up in the context in question. Any discomfort by appearing on the candidate list of a public position has nothing to do with privacy. There is a wrong signal to future leaders in the administration about the value of transparency and publicity if there is not even to be transparency around the candidate lists. Incomplete candidate lists will encourage journalism based on assumptions, speculations and rumors. This is supported by partial disclosure of information by sex. The possibility of opt-outs open here would cause the principle of disclosure in the case of candidate lists of public positions to be confused. There is an important investigation work in place to increase transparency in some other areas. The previous speakers have made this point. These include the transparency of state enterprises, of municipal and intermunicipal companies transformed into AS, etc., which are thus lifted out of the area governed by the disclosure law. The left is of the opinion that there are responsibilities and tasks to determine whether there is transparency, not organisational form. While we are waiting for this investigation to be completed – that is to be done in 2002 – the Left is committed to stressing that state enterprises and other companies have the full opportunity to practise the provisions of the Public Health Act. And it's important that we politicians give clear signals that it's an expectation. We've had a debate on openness in relation to the NSB. There, I think quite clearly that the NSB would have had an interest in showing the public service that is involved in providing access to journals and documents. And it is my wish that the Council of State can express itself whether it is appropriate to send the kind of signals to state enterprises where one underlines the possibility of practicing the provisions of the disclosure law or the principle of disclosure, pending the completion of this investigation. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of what some have had to do with: mind-creating work and insight into the law. We know from the time the Left was in government, that hanging up a "Be Open" poster in the ministry, which made it more difficult to practice secrecy and easier to be open and to clarify rules and regulations, led to greater transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e272	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e275	Transparency in administration is an important prerequisite for a viable democracy, and the Government attaches great importance to the transparency of administration. On the other hand, the principle of disclosure must also be balanced against other public and private considerations. The manner in which this balancing is to be carried out may and should be the subject of a continuous debate. However, I am pleased that there is now a unanimous committee – if not a unanimous enlargement – that is behind both the extensions and the restrictions in the Public Health Act that are now proposed. The Public Health Act was adopted in 1970, and today questions can be asked whether the law adequately takes account of social developments in recent decades. The questions raised both by the representative Stang and by the representative Kvassheim relating to the reorganization of the public sector and public authorities underline that fact. This is being examined by the legislative committee set up in December 1999. This is a work that is also a high priority for the current government. But today’s changes will also contribute to a more modern disclosure law. This concerns in particular the amendment of the concept of documents, which means that all public information storage media will be covered by the Public Service Act. The question of access for applicants to make reservations about being on the public candidate list has been discussed several times in Stortinget, and there are heavy concerns in both directions. When examining the notification of the principle of public disclosure in the administration, a majority of the Stortingen argued that applicants should have such a right of reservation. In view of this, the Government promoted proposals for such a reservation access. I would like to stress that this is a reservation option for some applicants, it is not a general exception to the disclosure of public additions. There was a crucial emphasis on privacy considerations; there should be an opportunity to apply for a public position without having a negative impact on one's wider career elsewhere. And I think we have to admit that even if we wanted this to be a full public case and completely unproblematic, it is that the public loses applicants that you could have otherwise, because the reality of the individual applicant is that if it becomes known that he or she is applying for another job, he or she has problems at his or her current place of work. But it's important to note that the provision only gives an access to exemption. There may as well be cases where it is more important for the public to know who all the applicants are, and hence who the adjudicating authority has chosen, than to protect the applicants from public light. In such cases, this should normally be made known to the applicants concerned before the deadline for the application expires. The reporting of documents is of great importance for the practice of the principle of disclosure. The journal is an important tool for identifying the issues in which you want to see them. I have noted the desire of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights to make a statement on this matter. This is a work I will do in cooperation with the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e287	I asked for the word again in relation to the post of Gunnar Kvassheim. I think it's important that I now say that there are no immediate plans on my part to apply for the port chief position in my home town, so there will be no speculation in the local press around it. I also noticed that Kvassheim said that the basic tone of what the committee is doing is good, and it's good to record that there's consensus on most things. So to this with the candidate lists. I don't need to elaborate on the reason why we're doing what we're doing, other than what the Minister of Justice just said. That's the same reason we're using in the committee. But when it comes to the central government and what they did and didn't do, if I don't remember completely wrong, let the centre government up to a discussion of the arguments for and against, which is heavy on both sides, and then already in the first round both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party fell down on the side where they have remained. But I'll be in a hurry when I hear the representative Gunnar Kvassheim. Now I know Gunnar Kvassheim from another business in the past, as a journalist and editor, and I'm aware that in Stortinget there's nothing called 'habilities rules', but based on the knowledge I have of him from the past, from previous political activities, I'm a bit in doubt if it's the editor Gunnar Kvassheim or if it's the big business representative Gunnar Kvassheim I hear here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e298	The little confusion that Rasmussen expresses must be the result of the fact that, in terms of democracy, freedom of expression and openness, the Left and other people who are concerned with these kinds of questions are very similar. That's the way I fought them in Egersund Municipality, including Rasmussen, who didn't want to open the Presidency meetings, and that's the way it is today when one continues the fight for greater transparency in important areas. And to have said that, when it was the example of the port manager in Egersund, it was only an example, and I'm on a safe ground, because I know that the representative Rasmussen this weekend is most likely to be nominated to be elected for another period in this house. I record that on this occasion a unanimous committee is more concerned with privacy than Georg Apenes of the Data Protection Authority, who has thus said that seeking a public position is not a private matter. And I don't think it's very reassuring that the Council of State places so much emphasis on the fact that it has to be up to the individual to make a reservation. The point is that one here opens up a confusion of the principle of transparency relating to the candidate list. When it comes to recruitment, I think the notion that people are being scared away from public positions if their name becomes known is excessive. I think it's much more a question of pay terms when, in many contexts, you have problems recruiting people to public positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e307	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 118]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e319	This matter is, in all simplicity, based on a proposal to allow for the imposition of simplified penalties for infringements of the provisions on the safe use of recreational and small craft. The best arguments for the government’s proposal have come from the country’s police officers, who stress that such access will be a good tool in the work to increase safety for small-boat traffic, that it will make the police service at sea more efficient and simplify, provide greater equality in criminal proceedings and be more effective in terms of investigation and prosecution, and that it could have a strong individual preventive effect. The Committee has stressed that simplified presentation should be used only in the normal cases and not in the case of particularly aggravating or mitigating circumstances. The Progress Party and the Right have previously opposed the introduction of a central small boat register and will take this opportunity to propose the removal of this register by removing Chapter 2 of the Law on Leisure and Small Boats. The reasons for this have been a fear that the register will be used to introduce additional taxes and new taxes, as well as a fear that it will build up an unnecessary bureaucracy. Now that we have also received the regulations of this law, and see how detailed this is, where we have adopted a registration system for the boat's production year, hull colour, acquisition method, length, name, fixed port, fuel type, engine year, etc., you can see that you are building up a fairly unnecessary bureaucracy in our opinion. I would therefore like, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to address the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e330	The representative Jan Simonsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e346	No one has asked for the floor. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 119]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e354	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e560	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e569	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e650	The President has understood that the Socialist Left and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e735	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e744	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e757	During the debate, Mr Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, presented the following proposal: ‘In Law No 26 June 1998 47 in the case of recreational craft and small craft, Chapter 2 is deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e812	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e821	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e912	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e921	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24-lower.ana.ud75e930	There is no record available.
