ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e31	The representative of Ingvald Godal, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative Odd Einar Dørum will make a private bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e39	On behalf of myself, I would like to make a proposal to amend the collection agency law, so that it also includes the purchase and recovery of debts due.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e44	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e56	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group, and five lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e67	The word "option" dispels very different associations, ranging from beautiful music to the more shelling words. It is not accidental that this has been the case, for options can be a positive and useful tool for healthy nutrition and co-ownership, but it can also be used in the greed culture's service and in a way that was not intended at all by the legislator. For this reason, I would like to stress that both legislators and businesses share a shared responsibility to improve their image of the option operation and thus develop the positive aspects of the use of this instrument. Options are a case that has received a lot of column space in the recent newspapers. Lookups have varied. There have been strong statements against options based on the fact that someone has abused the scheme or at least acted against what has been the main intention of the scheme. But there have also been many suggestions that have pointed to the positive aspects of a good option arrangement. Many activities, not least small ones in the start-up phase, may need options as a tool to keep the workforce, and not least maintain the necessary skills. And it's this last thing that's our goal when we go in to make option taxing more favorable. In the Christian People's Party, we are content that the Government so quickly made proposals to change the tax laws at this point. It is also gratifying that the Government has put forward a proposal which is in line with the proposal put forward by the central parties during the debate on the Stoltenberg Declaration of Accession by the Government. The taxation of options in employment has been changing, from withholding tax from the 1990 income year to acquisition tax in 1996 and with a certain change from the 1999 income year to the present proposal to abolish the tax liability of acquiring unlisted options in employment. Properly used options can be a decisive tool to ensure the survival, growth and development of a number of enterprises, especially small enterprises, and not least small start-ups. For an enterprise that's just started, capital is not always the most important one. It may not have come so far that the income is particularly large, and it may have to run for a time before it can fit into a difficult market. They may have to develop their products over time before they have anything to sell. In this period, wages and salaries will be low, but future income can still be high. In enterprises where they have great competence and are in demand from others, perhaps from competing companies, options can be an important tool to keep on adding and thus to the competence. The tax rules that apply to options today mean that a tax is taxed when an option is granted, i.e. at the grant date. We note that the current system is not good enough. It has made the option arrangements less attractive. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we have joined the government's proposal that the timing of the tax should be moved to the time of realization of the option. In such a conversion, a few options are better and more on the line with the rules in other countries. In an internationalised labour market, we know that for a good part of the skills we want to retain in our country, competition with the rest of the world is real. It is therefore important that we keep up with developments abroad. In the course of the hearing, a number of techniques call for the possibility of distributing the tax over the duration of the option. It is claimed that the tax burden at the time of realisation can bring so much tax burden that the option holder may be forced to sell axles to cover tax claims. This might be real in some cases. We'll see about that. But on the other hand, we know that a ratio to accruals will also provide better opportunities for those who want to exploit the option instrument in a way that was not intended by the legislator. So we haven't joined the Progress Party and the Right's proposal, but we think that's the basis for looking at this issue as well. There have also been suggestions to defer the taxing of the receiver of the option to sell the axes, i.e. to the realization time of the axes. The Christian People's Party does not support this. Such a conversion would include: led to a separation between those who have axes after resolving options and those who have been assigned axes directly. It has also been suggested from individual sources that one should have realised the option as a tax base, but with the timing of the sale of the axles as the date of payment of the tax. It may sound kind of provocative, but the problem is that in the meantime, the axes may have lost value. After all, the tax assets of the option recipient have been greatly deteriorated. In addition, it means that the distance between the time when a ‘ignition’ option in the employment relationship and when paying the tax can be very long. We want options to help promote healthy nutrition development, to maintain a high and necessary level of competence in Norwegian enterprises and to stimulate co-ownership. We don't want options to be an instrument for further stimulation of greed culture or for tax evasion. And we want Norwegian option tax holders to have a device that enables us to claim with the rest of the world in the competition for skills and willingness to intervene. For this reason, we support the proposal to ask the Government, in the context of the 2001 government budget, to provide an assessment of any change in the option tax for further strengthening options as a tool for promoting healthy nutrition and co-ownership. Finally, let me stress that the lights we are now doing in option taxation have nothing to do with parachutes. This is not about members of the board. This is about those who, in addition to wages, can receive a bonus if they are involved in increasing the value of the company in which they work. It is about giving Norwegian IT companies better conditions of competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e103	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e106	It was the government of Bondevik that introduced in Norwegian terminology the slightly foreign term ‘bench marking’, which in Norwegian simply means that one should try to have a systematic comparison of e.g. our tax level with what they have in other countries we compete with. It's important in an economy where both people and capital move easily. For a long time now, we have had an option admission system that has been among the worst, with workers' eyes, in Europe. Now with this change, we're going one step in the right direction, but not completely. The representatives of the centre parties have pointed out several times the problem, which was also raised by the rapporteur in his statement, that it is a problem that you actually have to pay taxes before you get any income. It is not a problem for those who have good money, but for employees who do not have good money, you may have to pay taxes before you get any income, for example, force you to do something else. to sell part of the shares in order to pay the tax. And my question is, what is wrong with this reasoning? Why do you have to have a system that pays particular attention to those with high wealth and perhaps liberal income from before, and not to employees who can actually acquire their first shares in their own business in this way? I record from the post and the setting that this will determine the center parts. And my second question to the rapporteur is therefore: why can't you just take a stand? This has been determined by the Government, and they are opposed. What is the reason why the center parties agree to work out something that has already been investigated? And I repeat the question: why can't you just take a stand here and now when to deal with the matter? Why do we have to go after all the other Nordic countries again for a few years, even though the distance is now getting a little bit shorter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e117	The replicator goes into one of the themes I was on in my article, and as I stressed, we want to take it seriously. For precisely this with ‘bench marking’, a systematic comparison of the conditions of other places also with ourselves, is important and necessary. But as I also stressed in my post, in many ways the option instrument, the option tool, is a bit of damage. We have a device where we want to use this as a tool to promote healthy nutrition development, co-ownership and so on. not least in smaller enterprises, but we know that doing the conditions very well there can be used in a way that was not intentional. And unfortunately, we have seen a frightening example of that, which makes it harder to argue for a good option arrangement, because it's so double. I go as far as I did now, saying that we see the problem – I described it in much the same way as the replicator – but we still want an arrangement where the government with its apparatus looks more closely at how to limit this, so that a system that might lead to periodication meets the target group that we want to meet, but that does not open up any further use in an unintended direction – that is what is our main reason. And I can add that in such an arrangement as we are now asking from the Department and the Council of State, we also expect that one can do an additional comparison with developments abroad, and do it in a better way than we did in this round of our process.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e122	This case shows that the large number of people does not hang on to the handle. They do one thing in the Social Committee and in the Municipal Committee, and another in the Financial Committee. At the same time as the Storting is about to deal with the defrosting message, which is held in committees, and which is the last to be put to work there, the bulk of the population adopts a relief in the option tax that has neither documented any distribution effects nor any policy effects on nutrition. In the setting, SV suggests that you document how this will work before you run through the option tax relief. But that's a rejection of the majority. It is strange that in a situation where we can prove that the differences in Norway are increasing because the tax on capital is particularly favourable, and because top managers have granted themselves some significant wage increases, it is the centre parties that contribute, to facilitate option taxation with closed eyes and without deterring to their policy objectives. There is also a business policy reason to put many questions about this. There are many who fear that widespread use of options will lead to more short-termity for top managers, namely that in the short term they want to have a business to increase the value of their own option and thus can make decisions like the company on which they are not going to earn. What is the reason why the central parties contributed to the creation of a majority in the main hall and have made the government bend and rush through this matter? What is the reason why the centre parties do not want to investigate what kind of distribution effects the use of options can have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e133	If what we're doing is hanging on to something or not, I'm not going to comment, but there's a certain context in this. And when it's claimed from the replicator that there's no evidence of a need for a change in option tax, it's a direct mistake. It turns out that the use of options has fallen dramatically after the tightening of the tax regimes. In 1995, there were probably 19 000–20,000 options allocated, but in 1998 – if I do not think quite wrong – only approx. 1000 options. So the scale has gone down dramatically. And we also see that the industry, in which case I am thinking first and foremost about the IT industry, is asking for this instrument to promote a healthy industrial development osb. This does not conflict with what we have said in connection with the anti-sampling message, rather with the opposite. As I tried to do something in my article, and as I also tried to underline in my reply to the previous replicator, we don't want to go any further than that we have an overview of what we are doing, and that the effects are going to hit where they are going, that option tax, the option mechanism, should be an instrument that seems to be a healthy business development. A healthy development of nutrition peels away a lot of other things. We also want the scheme to stimulate co-ownership in a good and positive way. And just this, that we have and develop a healthy and good business, is helping to give us opportunities to distribute the well-being that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e143	First, I would like to stress that it is not possible to distribute funds that are not created. We see every day that new jobs are created based on the new information technology, workplaces that are almost based only on the knowledge of those who work there. This does not depend on natural resources, and therefore these enterprises can be moved quickly. Similarly, those working in these industries can move quickly to businesses in other countries. So what we are discussing today through the option tax is whether Norway should have its share of these start-ups and these value creations. It's going to be very little resources for dithering if you don't first have something to distribute, I think more people should have noticed. The businesses we're talking about here often start up without a lot of money. However, companies hope to do well in the future. At the same time, the wage level of this type of labour force is high, and the new enterprises are able to pay so much. Internationally, therefore, we have seen that it is common for part of the salary to be paid as a belief in the future, through an option. The objective of the conversion of the option tax we currently have to discuss is that in Norway we should have a tax system in this area that makes us competitive in keeping with this type of labour force. Unfortunately, an investigation by the audit firm KPMG already shows that the total tax and employers’ tax on employee options in innovation enterprises even with the present proposal ‘is marked higher in Norway than in other European countries and the United States’. We also find ourselves in a bad position with Ireland, Finland, Sweden, i.e. there is a huge growth in this area. That's why I was only satisfied when the center announced that it would be in favour of a change that goes on a periodicisation, so that we don't get the strangely high tax level. But why would the center investigate this and not adopt it here and now, so that we can get our share of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e150	The replicator, here called KPMG, compares with the different countries, and if you go a little deeper into it, you will see that all such comparisons are a little thin and a little unsound. Take me for example. for us, the comparison with the result that Sweden came out with will show that it's based on a mapped value of the option, but we're not going to go further into that exact comparison. But we recognise that there is a need to do something about Norwegian option taxing. So we've been in favour of the proposal, and I'm going to emphasize again that if we don't want to go any further in this game, it's precisely because the option instrument, which was something completely different from the assumption system, is a risk management instrument, and that's what was the starting point. But then it's developed to be almost a control system. We don't want to go further than to be reasonably sure that the changes we make hit in the direction of the operations and in the sectors we want. We don't want to help options to reinforce a greed culture that we unfortunately see tending to in our country. That's why we want to wait with further changes, but we've signaled that we'll look at this, and we expect the government to come back to this in a good way in connection with the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e159	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e163	In the context of the debate on the Government Declaration, the Minister of Finance announced that he would come to the Grand Duchy with proposals for changes to the option taxation rules. The background was that the rules that we have can have an unfortunate effect, for example. for newly established enterprises with small capital in addition to the knowledge of employees. The proposal presented here is a cautious relief in the option tax as it is today. This means that the tax date of the option advantage is moved from the time of acquisition to the time of redemption. One might say that there are particular companies that are trying to establish themselves and that may have an uncertain future, which in this way can have a relief in the competition for a very desirable workforce, often young people with no particular capital other than their knowledge capital. In such a context, it can be seen that the option scheme can be fruitful, inter alia. by helping to facilitate new business start-ups. In this way, in particular, businesses in the start-up phase can attract workers who are willing to bet on the company’s success, and therefore accept a lower wage against taking the opportunity of a greater profit if the company succeeds. This is probably more known at the time that one chooses to redeem the options than one does at the time of acquisition. It is therefore reasonable for a person to receive a tax that takes account of this. Those given options in listed companies already see at the time of grant what opportunities lie in the established company and the shares already have a clear market value and liquidity. It is therefore reasonable that the taxation of options in listed companies should come at the time of grant. The advantage of an option is to consider wages and salaries and should therefore also be taxed, as proposed, as income, at the general income limits, income taxes and employers' taxes. The tax can thus be very high if the advantage becomes very high. There is reason to be restrictive in terms of generally stimulating the widespread use of options in the labour market. Extensive use can lead to a type of wage formation that society in general is not serving. Many of us are concerned about the development of a greed culture with great advantages, options and parachutes for managers and a few employees. Options used in a crazy way can just contribute to this. In the book «Globalisationfellen», written by Martin and Schumann, we are warned against the 1/5 society. It doesn't assume that 1/5 is out of the good life, while 4/5 is good, as the discussions often go at home. No, the starting point is that 1/5 is in the good life, and 4/5 is outside. Just pay structures with options, parachutes, etc. can, if we are not aware of this, contribute to such a development. The proposed amendment of the law promoted by the Government believes that we have found a good balance between the different aspects of the option system. It increases the opportunities for enterprises that are in the process of being established, while at the same time creating a strong tax on options in general. We therefore agree with the Government's proposal and see no need to present a new case in view of a change in order to further strengthen options as an instrument, as requested by the majority in the Committee. It is also difficult to understand what the majority proposal really means, as those behind it, in their comments express a very different view of options as an instrument. Perhaps in the course of the debate we will be given a clarification as to what signals are meant to be given, because, as I said, the comments of the Progress Party, the Right and the intermediate parties crack in all directions. It is these parties that are behind this proposal. The Labour Party believes, as I said, that the Government has found a proper balance by facilitating some of the current rules, but at the same time has restrictions through strong taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e192	It is not exactly with the stormy cheer Britt Hildeng suggests that options should become more common in Norwegian business. I know – not only do I know, but I record – a widespread scepticism that this is going to be a system that blows around. What really surprises me is that the government has not used the opportunity they have to examine in more detail how options and more favourable taxation of options will actually work. There is therefore no evidence, neither distribution policy nor industry policy, which suggests that this is a good system. Four years ago, when it was revealed that Kværner's top managers had significant options, the Workers' Party tightened up the option tax. As a result, the use of options has also been significantly restricted. It has been a desired policy. Now it is easier to do this without being able to prove how it will work, while at the same time as the Storting later, next week, will be most concerned about how to combat the differences in Norway. Nor can I understand that the industrial policy arguments in relation to the IT industry are relevant, for most entrepreneurs in this area will not be able to provide options of more than NOK 600 000. Thus, top managers and other more established enterprises are the main beneficiaries. We know from the United States that top executives in the largest companies over the 1990s have increased their pay levels from 50 million. NOK 100 million. kr, and that more than half of this has been the use of options. My question to Britt Hildeng is, is it now that we can expect the government to put its foot down soon? There are, of course, a majority in this Chamber to assess further reliefs in the option tax. And is it so that the Workers' Party, when they don't show muscles in the matter, inside it still seems that it's pretty straightforward, and differences we can discuss another time, without any connection with what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e207	I share Halvorsen's scepticism for using options as a general remuneration system. I also feel that the proposition that now exists from the Government, to which we have joined, is an expression of it. There is a balance between what is appropriate from a sector of business that needs basic capital and that does not have it but that has it in the form of young people's knowledge and brains. It is put in the pot when setting up businesses, and in this context it can be seen that options will also provide opportunities for start-ups. I think it's especially in the IT industry, as you've seen, many young people want to bet what they have and what they can, but at the same time, there's also a lot of competition in this area compared to a pay market that's very tempting. So it becomes a means of attracting labour, which is important for new start-ups. When you see how the IT industry is developing – through small businesses and entrepreneurs – I think it is important that they also provide working conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e214	When you hear Britt Hildeng, it's quite obvious that Britt Hildeng and the Workers' Party are actually against options. This is not shown in the setting, because in the setting it is said that options are all right. It surprises me a little, because it is a civil majority who have ordered the Workers' Party to present this matter. This happened in connection with the government change in March. This means that the government could — if it wished — have spent longer time, not least taking inwards that the social and business conditions associated with option taxation have not been assessed at all. When you hear Britt Hildeng's posts, she uses arguments that we hear all the time, but that we really don't know are right, namely that IT companies and young entrepreneurs need the opportunity to give that kind of options, because otherwise they can't attract the good brains. I don't know if that's true. There's no empirical saying it's true. The limited research carried out on options at all, we have from the United States. There is no basis for saying that this is actually the case — rather, the situation is that well-established enterprises use options to make astronomical payments to their managers. That is why SV has submitted the proposal. We're not necessarily against options. There may be arguments for the reasonableness of options. But then we have to know what we're doing. The unculture that options represent is why SV and LO are so strongly opposed. What is my question to the representative Hildeng is this: why will the Labour Party not take the time to investigate why this is necessary? There's nothing of this that's urgent. It is not the case that Norwegian IT companies are fleeing across the border due to the option tax. We need a little bit more time from SV, not because we're necessarily against options, but because we need to know what's in this. That is why my simple question is: if SV again raises the question that we need a little better time to investigate the issues I am highlighting here, will the representative Hildeng then look with sympathy at it? And will she also be involved in explaining how options actually work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e225	I often have a lot of sympathy for SV and often for the positions as well. But I feel that when this matter came now, it is because one needed clarification in this area, and precisely in the demarcated area, in order that it might seem reasonable. Because when you look at the scheme as a payroll, you got an advantage that you should be taxed on at a time when you didn't know what the development would be. It was an unfairness. That's why the proposal that's here is very limited, but reasonably based on what it's meant to be. Obviously, you know a lot about how options work – you have a lot of analysis at the bottom. This gives reason to be skeptical about developing this as a general pay system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e232	I wonder many times that when the Storting is going to make some changes in social security schemes or for others who have little to walk with in society, the changes are being investigated up the walls and down the poles. In the case of tax relief, by which a limited group of top managers will be able to benefit, the bulk of the population adopts it without demonstrating how it actually works. I believe that the SV and the Workers' Party and those in the Centres who are engaged in the common good and the standard in the public sector in the future have a very important job to do, and that is to make sure that not the Treasury runs at every crossroads when someone comes up with a festive tax proposal. That is one of the reasons why SV runs this case so hard. The second reason is the development of Difference Norway. It's the sum of all the small and big changes on the tax side that have made the 10 pst. The wealthiest in Norway has decreased considerably. It is documented in the anti-aliasing message provided by the previous government. So now there's a statement of intent from the majority of the population here to oblige the government to move on. Then I want the Workers' Party to show some muscles. It must now be possible to document how this actually works, and challenge the centre parties that talk about reducing differences in Norway in all other contexts. Can I expect some muscles from the Workers' Party to appear on these matters in the future? In addition, I wonder if these new IT entrepreneurs are well-deserved that options are widely distributed. It is said here that the principal capital of these companies is the heads of the employees. Well, if someone wants to split a company after a few years, bring their heads with them, they will also be able to bring with them significant parts of the company's capital and become a very challenging competitor to the company they started. I think we are in the process of creating something that leads to a very unhealthy culture, both in terms of distribution and also in terms of business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e247	I believe the representative Halvorsen and I agree that those who have a tax capacity also have to pay taxes. That is also what is contained in the proposal that has now been promoted by the Government. There's a very strong tax on option benefits, and it's taxed as wages. And it is important to state that this should be the case, especially in order for the treasury – as the representative says – to receive the revenue. Taxation also limits the use of options and their benefits. That's why I feel that what the government has now done is to find a proper balance between using options as an instrument where it's appropriate, and limiting the use of options through a very strong tax. It's a balance, but it's a balance that I think the government has found. With regard to the declaration of will to which the majority has referred, it is very difficult to understand what that declaration of will is, because here the middle parties crack in every direction. On the one hand, it opens up in order to be able to use it as an instrument in general, and on the other hand, the centre party shows very negative consequences. And the Progress Party and the Right, which are also behind this declaration of will, is very much in favour of a great degree of liberalisation. When you read the comments behind this declaration of will, it's hard to understand them. And I want the minister to be happy to interpret them. But that is what the debate here will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e254	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e257	The working party relates to the taxation of options that the pig relates to a football match. It doesn't understand any of that. Job options are used as carrots to make employees make a special effort. If the company is doing well, employees will benefit from it. One initially free option has several characteristics that the Workers' Party does not understand. It does not need any value and will therefore not be used. It does not give salt in the food or butter on the bread, either when it is received or when it is redeemed, and upon redemption a free option has a possible future value in itself associated with the value increase before redemption. The subsequent increase in value is not linked to the option but to the share acquired at the option redemption. Taxing a redemption option is the same as taxing any value added that has not been paid. Thus, according to the logic of the Workers' Party, the person who redeems an option – i.e. buys the shares the option gives right – will have to sell part of the same shares in order to pay taxes. The Progress Party considers that no tax should be paid on a gain or income until it actually comes to payment. This means that one calculates the tax payable by the option advantage when it is redeemed in shares, but we do not want to pay that tax until the share is sold. When the share is sold, it will of course be that any share gain is taxed on capital taxes according to normal rules, while the gain, linked to the redemption of the option, is taxed on as compensation of employees. Of course, employee-related options are precisely related to employment and are used to a certain extent to supplement or compensate for wages and salaries, especially in smaller venture companies with uncertain earnings. In this context, it is important to have an eye on the fact that the employee who says yes to options rather than wages runs a high risk, namely that the option turns out to be of no value. That's enough of examples of that. So options are not a special instrument to make the rich rich richer at the expense of others. Also, taxing options such as wages and salaries does not give enterprises and employees particularly good reason to use options instead of wages and salaries only to save wages and salaries. When options are taxed in this way, it is in the nature of the case that options will be used when they are a necessary move to attract the necessary labour – as previously said especially to smaller companies with uncertain earnings. I take this up with me the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e278	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e282	The starting point for the discussion should be that Norway currently has the worst staff option regime in Europe. We should then discuss the consequences for Norwegian value creation and establishment in one of the fastest growing areas, ICT. We live in an international world, and businesses are continuously assessing their framework conditions. The special thing about the new economy – as it is called – is that it is no longer about moving a factory, but about heads, a server or a holding company. The new economy is designed to facilitate mobility, which is why the threat of relocation is more than real. There is a broad political consensus in the Storting that we as a nation have a job to do in creating new jobs. Many of these are intended to come in the ICT sector. But then the population has to see that if we don't do anything about the options and the option tax, we're at risk of giving up this unique opportunity to create growth opportunities in Norway after the oil. If Norway is to be able to create new activities and new jobs, we need to provide framework conditions that stimulate growth and that are at the height of the framework conditions in our neighbouring country. Even with the present proposals in the vote today, we are actually talking about a maximum tax of 80 pst. in the case of an option on the employer’s and employee’s side together. It doesn't stimulate innovation. Several representatives have argued that when the option tax was changed four years ago, everyone opposed it. I also heard that the representative Kristin Halvorsen was involved. But a lot of water has been clean in the sea since then. For example, a company like AOL, American Online, was almost worthless at that time. Over the years that have gone by, AOL has become one of the most valuable companies in the United States. They have extinguished Time Warner, the world's largest media company, only by issuing shares in their own company. Even if it's a little bit worn out, here you can't get completely over the phenomenon of Nokia. Less than ten years ago, Nokia was on the brink of bankruptcy. Today, Nokia is Europe's most valuable company, worth about NOK 2000 billion, and it is between one and two times the estimated value of Norway's oil and gas assets. At home, we see that the total share value of the IT companies Fast, Opticom, NetCom and Telecom computing, at least occasionally, exceeds the share value of a wide range of heavy and well-established industrial companies such as: Alcatel, STK, Dyno, Elkem, Hafslund, Kongsberg group, Raufoss, Selmer and Veideck together. What this discussion is about is whether Norway should be able to have its share of growth in these businesses in the future, and if we do not provide proper solutions for employee options, these enterprises will not come to Norway. If they don't, we're going to have lower growth. The growth power of the economy is weakened, and then it's less to distribute. Some people are talking about bringing in new tax increases to try to correct the alleged increase in pay differentials. It's not a dangerous road. Studies show that those who are really poor are people who are not related to the labour market. For these persons, tax measures are not appropriate. In addition, for those with high incomes and wealth, tax increases will have significant negative consequences, including: by the fact that several companies and individuals will choose to move out of the country. Investments and jobs are thus also being shifted, and more people are at risk of losing links with the labour market. As a result, the government's attempts at further income balancing, which the Minister of Finance has been involved in, can lead to the richest not being hit, because they disappear from the country, while more people lose their jobs and get financial problems as a result. Of course, we don't want this kind of development, and it doesn't contribute to increased justice in any way, just the very opposite. The current discussion on options should be brought down a little on the land and concentrate on what it really is about, namely the allocation of stock options to employees as an important tool for innovation companies that depend on attracting and keeping key employees. New knowledge establishments with poor liquidity will rarely be able to offer pay terms in line with established establishments. However, share options allow them to reward and secure central employees in the form of a share of their future earnings. Employee options are therefore important for start-up enterprises and make employees co-owners of their own business. Current taxation of employee options has resulted in employees being subject to a significant tax liability before any gain has been paid to pay the tax. This disparity between tax liability and fiscal capacity has made option schemes a small tool in Norway and has given Norwegian ICT companies worse working conditions than those in other countries. I mentioned in a reply to the rapporteur that a study carried out by KPMG Law shows that the total tax and employer's tax on employee options in innovation companies, even with the present proposal, is marked higher in Norway than in other European countries and the United States. The comparison shows that Norway differs from a very high employer charge. The other countries in the survey impose no or almost negligable employers’ fees. The rapporteur did not consider it relevant to fully compare it with Sweden. I ask for this to be deepened, because in relation to Sweden, Norway has almost twice as high overall tax levels for employee options in innovation companies. When we talk about getting something similar to Ericsson and Nokia in the future, I think a prerequisite for getting even close to something like this is that we have comparable tax relationships in these areas with our neighbouring countries. The SV and the most critical voices in the Workers' Party really say by rejecting even the small changes that are now in the Government's arrangement, is that in Norway we should not have our share of these companies, because they do not come here if we have different tax conditions. Then it'll be very little to distribute if we don't have value creation. For employees too, the tax burden will be very high if the highest level of tax is triggered, as proposed by the Government. Thus, high taxes and employers’ taxes may result in employee options remaining a relatively unfavourable method of remuneration in Norway. The result is that Norwegian ICT companies will continue to have worse competitive conditions than competitors in other countries. Within a system of progressive taxation of employee income and progressive employers' contributions, it is unreasonable that the entire benefit of an option that has lasted for several years is taxed in one year of income. Therefore, the Progress Party and the Right propose allowing the option revenue to be calculated proportionately over the period in which it is processed. This means that employers' taxes and taxes are calculated as if the benefit of the option were paid evenly over the period of the option and not only during the year of the option's income. I have also noticed that the Workers' Party's nutrition selection with Kjell Opseth in the head has suggested exactly the same thing, and it says black on white that it is a prerequisite that you get such a distribution in order to get your share of these companies in Norway. So it might be interesting to get the Minister of Finance's assessment of the Workers' Party's nutrition selection assessments on that point. It's also quite amazing that the center after first going out and saying that it makes sense with such a periodicization, inspired by Left Terje Johansen, now concludes that this should be investigated. The point is that the Minister of Finance has investigated it. In a long letter to the Finance Committee, he has concluded that he is oblivious to a periodicity. He may have let himself influence something of Opseth recently, but it remains to be seen. But when the central parties now want an investigation and send it over to a finance minister who is initially against, there is no problem here. What you should actually do is say here today that in Norway, at least at this point, we could have a competitive arrangement with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e316	SV and Right are fundamental differences in the relationship and approach to the option. That's why I'm not going to spend the time asking Børge Burnde about it. When Børge Brende stands here and says that in Norway we have a lower competition conditions for our companies, and especially for the ICT companies, than others, I wonder what comparison basis Børge Brende places on. He's subtracting a little bit of the total tax. Last night, there was a survey in Today’s Business that showed that Norway, in total, has the lowest tax rate in the OECD for Norwegian enterprises. That's right. We have 28 pst. flat tax. Almost all other countries have both tax on dividends on shares and tax on profits in enterprises, as well as many other forms of tax. When speaking about options, Norway is much worse than many other countries, neither is it true. Of course, there are other countries that have the kind of free options that Børge Burnde really wants, but at the same time it is that most countries see that the new economy contributes to the need to change the tax system. Changing the tax system does not necessarily mean giving away. That means you have to change the form of taxation, the time, etc. This means that we do not have a lower overall tax rate for ICT companies or entrepreneurs than for other countries. Rather the opposite. I don't think there is a single example of a Norwegian company, a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company with a company At least I don't know any examples of that. I know a lot of business leaders who have gone out in the paper and said that now I'm moving to Belgium, because we have so much tax in Norway, but if you look at the level of taxation in Belgium, it's higher than in Norway. So then there has to be another reason -- this is only used in polemics. My only question to Børge Burnde is: Does he mean, in total, that Norwegian companies have a heavier tax burden compared to any other country, or does he think that if we look at the totality and not just bit by bit – as the Right would like to do in the case of the tax system – we have actually seen in Norway relatively less taxation than other comparable countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e325	First, to the representative Djupedal’s opinion that employee options are only a small part of the tax question for ICT enterprises. With that statement, Øystein Djupedal has revealed that he knows little about what is crucial for these companies. The issue of employee options is a very important piece in order to keep competent staff for the start-up companies. They can't afford to pay full wages in the first few years, but give an option in the future value creation. This is essential for these holdings to remain in Norway. With SV's view, I think there had been very few of them in Norway, and we would have lost in the competition for the important value creation in areas where companies are also able to really pay taxes. So to the discussion about the Norwegian tax system in general. One of the major challenges facing ICT business owners is the strange wealth tax. This is because a lot of paper assets are created through, among other things. those Internet companies and ICT companies in general. They may have a hugely high stock exchange value, but they don't make money. It is a valuation of the company that is also based on the potential of the company in the future. Then you have to pay property taxes, 1.1 pst., of a wealth that can go up and down. This is to finance the payment of dividends without being paid from these companies, because they still have a deficit. It's a big challenge! Sweden does not have taxes on wealth on working capital. Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany do not have taxes on wealth. Moreover, it is not possible to just look at the Norwegian tax rate of 28 pst. We had 50 pst. But today, companies pay more in taxes by 28 pst. than when we had 50 pst., because the basis for the tax is wider.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e332	The general tax debate between SV and Right we are going to postpone to another time, but Børge Brende now reveals in his answer that he really does not understand what this is about. Let's stick to options. As far as I am aware, there is not a single example of a Norwegian ICT or entrepreneurial enterprise that has moved due to the Norwegian tax system. We have many ICT companies in Norway. In total, they contribute slightly more to the value added than the oil and gas companies in total sales volume in Norway. This means that Norway is in many ways an ideal country to operate this type of activity, because we have relatively good public welfare services, as well as good educational opportunities. It is not the case that business leaders, entrepreneurs and ICT specialists sit in the back room and look only at the tax when assessing where they are going to establish themselves. Now we have a low tax level compared to almost all countries, but people are not like that. Had it been like this, Per-Kristian Foss would have moved abroad for the longest time, because he thinks that the Norwegian tax system is completely terrible, but Per-Kristian Foss is not like that. You're the whole people, and so are those who start ICT businesses. This means that what is important in order to attract that type of enterprise, to get that kind of establishment, is not necessarily option taxation. It has to do with the total tax system, and it has to do with the total society we can offer. This means that when the representative Børge Brende now starts talking about option taxation in Norway is so terrible, you also have to remember the following: you can allow 600 000 tax-free options for those who want it. This is not what SV has done. We believe, however, that options represent an unculture that must not increase beyond what we have today. The representative Mr. Børge Brende wants, there are no restrictions whatsoever on the unculture it represents, no reflection on whether this makes sense to businesses. In America, where there is research on options, the conclusion is that options for businesses are actually uncultured, because there are contradictions between exchange value and what else. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e341	I'm leaving the discussion about Djupedals and my mutual level of competence, because we're both pretty much inhabile at that point. But when Djupedal claims that there are no Norwegian ICT companies that have moved out because we in Norway have a poor tax system for employee options, I ask him to document it. On the other hand, in the case that could have been so interesting to be explained, all those who have not started in Norway are because we have proven to have a property tax that affects them quite hard because of the high stock exchange value of these companies, and also because we have had a lack of conditions related to employee options in relation to what has been required. If you listen to the industry, you will at least get a strong impression that there could have been much greater value creation in that area in Norway. It is also interesting to look at some comparisons over exports of high technology. Djupedal believes that in Norway we are so good in this area. I have picked up a plan from the Norwegian Research Council that shows the technology industry's share of exports. In Norway it stands at 10 p.m., in Sweden about 50 p.m., in Finland about 45 p.m. and in Ireland about 40 pst. If we're going to do something about being not just a commodity-based exporter in the future, I actually think that in these areas we also have to have a competitive tax. We're not as good as Sweden and Finland here, and I think that's because of the Norwegian tax system, which may also be due to the education system. No one's talked about free options. The right-hand side suggests a periodicization. That means that those who are taxed will get a marginal tax of about 50 pst. I think 80 pst. marginal taxation is a bit high, and there I think we're actually at the top of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e355	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e358	The changes in the tax law that Odelstinget is dealing with today relate in isolation to the timing of taxing options. The centre party agrees that options are no longer to be taxed by acquisitions but by realisation. From our point of view, we have stressed that this means that, in fact, several of the employees are given an opportunity to participate in option schemes, which we see as a good tool for healthy and long-term business development. Employees are allowed to take part in the company's capitalisation, and enterprises in the start-up phase – as has been said by several before me – are given the opportunity to associate themselves with qualified employees who then have a chance to participate in the development of an exciting enterprise. I would like to see the options in the next round become joint ownership by redeeming them in shares and not just remaining part of a pay agreement. In doing so, they can also stimulate long-term employment, and ensure that as many employees as possible become owners of the enterprises in which they work. But let's say that the majority who are behind point B of the vote is probably doing something different on the basis of the majority vote. I do not see the need for a periodicisation of taxation, as some have suggested. For me, it has been important to shift the tax from the date of acquisition to the date of redemption in order to allow as many employees as possible, and not only the capital managers, to participate in option arrangements. It is important to review the taxing of option schemes in order to ensure that we do not get back into the old ditch using options, which several have been involved in, where there were mainly managers of well-established companies that took out million gains. I don't see that as a chance of how this option arrangement is now designed, and that's the background for the Central Party to be involved. We were in 1996 and strongly involved in the option tax, precisely because the scheme was mostly used by a few top managers in well-established companies who did not have the need that everyone has made up for today, to attract skilled labour, precisely in order to develop new ideas and new businesses in areas where the profitability of the company is not good enough to pay the employees as you might wish. It was used as the premiere of a few top managers in well-established companies. There is no doubt that a strong unculture developed around this scheme at that time. And let's say, from the centre party, we don't want to have any concerns about re-viewing the system if it turns out that there is a new so-called unculture developing around the use of the system. Of course, there are several perspectives on option schemes, as we have also made explicit in our remarks in the position. We have seen examples of uncriticised and often critical use of options. We have seen examples of violent price fluctuations in established companies, where the arrangements were established at a low price and then the shares are realised at a high price. I'm not going to say that we've seen examples of price manipulation, but when that kind of thing happens in a company where a few people participate, at least this shows a short-term idea of where your own profit goes ahead of long-term goals and healthy economic development in a company. It's some kind of use of options that's unintentional, and business itself has a big responsibility to make sure it doesn't happen. It's true that the Center Party has had some critical comments. I actually believe that there is reason for everyone in this room to have a awake eye in relation to how exactly this type of arrangement evolves. We all want it to be used by as many employees as possible to ensure healthy business development, to ensure innovation and – from my point of view – to ensure that not only managers but also all employees of a company can participate in the company's capitalisation. But then we, as politicians, business leaders and business owners, have a responsibility to work for the non-abuse of options, and that there is no inappropriate and uncritical development of the scale, thus concealing the real values of the company. We must not see ever more frequent examples of what I would call ‘course manipulation’, where the rates fluctuate enormously – at low rates when the option mechanism is established and historically high rates at the time of redemption. In that case, the focus is not on long-term development, but on own profit. And that's a kind of use of options that I can't accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e376	This matter concerns the time at which the option will be taxed. Is it to be taxed at the time you get it? Is it to be taxed when it is redeemed? Or should it be taxed, as proposed by the Advance Party and the Right, when the shares are realised or sold? The representative of the Central Party says that he has a wish that the employees become joint owners of the companies, become shareholders. It is a wish that we share with the representative. But that's actually the opposite that can happen to this proposal, because those that you are so much against, the very rich, of course, have the opportunity to pay taxes at the time the option is realised, while those who are employed in the company as ordinary employees, can largely be deprived of the opportunity because you have to pay large sums at the time of redemption. Doesn't the representative from the Central Party see the danger?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e383	It's actually a very central argument the representative Svendsen here is bringing up. Taxing at the time of redemption may mean that a normal employee of an enterprise will not actually be able to redeem his options in shares, but will be forced to sell them just to pay the tax. It's actually one of the things I think the Ministry of Finance should look into in their investigation of this, whether it seems to stimulate long-term. But in fact, I believe that the Right and Advance Party's idea of taxing the options at the time of the sale of the shares is a very bad idea, precisely because we all agree that options should be taxed as employee income. Thus, a person must be subject to a deferred tax on the option, which is then an employee income, and must be taxed as an employee's income for the whole period in which he is in the option, and have a capital return tax on that part of the period in which he is holding a share. In that case, a non-tax on employee income is to be paid, but then a tax on capital return is to be paid. Should a deferred tax one has from the period one has sat on the option, until a seller of the share, I fear it will be an inappropriate arrangement. But I have no objection that the Ministry of Finance will look at this on a later occasion if it turns out that the very way we now choose to apply the tax leads to options being used only as wages and not also stimulating co-ownership. I have, as I have said, little left over to go to a periodication of taxation, precisely because I think we have gone far enough now, and that with the grips made, we make the option scheme a scheme that will be attractive to the vast majority of employees in a company. Most of them can participate in the use of options if you wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e391	First, I must say that I am at least happy that the Central Party, when they were in government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, agreed to soften the strange taxation of options. However, one of the main problems that we still want to face after the adoption of the proposal that is on this table today is that when the benefit of the option agreement is taxed in one year's income, you get a sky-high employer's fee on the employer's side and a very high marginal tax due to the extra top tax. Had this been paid as a salary over four years, that marginal tax would be lower. And that's actually pay. You get an option instead of getting extra pay, so that the pay is exposed to unprofitable companies at that time. With the system set up today, you will actually get into a marginal tax on earnings, with the employer's tax, of over 80 p.p., if you have both a check-in tax and the extra step of the top tax. My question to the representative, Mr Enoksen, is – I think the representative may have answered that in his reply to the reply from the Progress Party, but I would like to see it elaborated: Is it so that, when you submit this question to the government's investigation, the Center Party is open to the possibility of entering into a periodation, or is it such that Enoch has already concluded, that the Center Party will vote against such periodication? I think it's a little important to put that in place, not least because the Christian People's Party and the Left are selling it as if it's going to be a real investigation of this issue, regardless of the conclusion that the Minister of Finance has already made. The Minister of Finance is against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e398	Had the Centre Party considered it necessary to adopt the periodicisation of taxation in order to make use of options as a good tool to promote innovation and industrial development, we would of course have voted in favour of it already today. But let me say it like this: I think that's all sorts of reason to run slowly. I think we're going to be careful to establish arrangements that are perceived as being for the benefit of most people. And I think that with the form of option tax today, it will be an instrument that enables the vast majority of employees, including in newly established companies, to participate in the option scheme. Of course, we have meant it really when we asked the Ministry of Finance to assess the conditions we are asking for in paragraph B. From our side, as I said in my main post, it is also important to evaluate some other aspects of the use of the option tax, when the Ministry of Finance had to choose to come back with this, among others. whether it contributes to sound economic development, whether it contributes to the long-term thinking of those participating in the option scheme, and not only to the short-term own gain, etc. So, of course, at the time this comes back, we want to take a position on the realities of what may come from the Ministry of Finance, and then look at the effects of the use of option schemes after a time, whether the scheme contributes to healthy economic development, whether it contributes to participation from as much as possible, and whether there is a scheme that, in our opinion, gives the fair tax that it is to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e410	It's pretty hard to understand what the Central Party really thinks about the taxation of options, and I don't think that's because the confusion is particularly high in me, but because the Center Party speaks with two tongues. In the setting, the Centre Party and SV agree to point out the disadvantages this may have in terms of the short-term attitude that top managers and others who have options can have to their business, but in the hall Odd Roger Enoxen speaks both for and against. It's pretty hard to know if that's how the Center Party wants a larger spread of options. What I understand is that Odd Roger Enoxsen says, is that he wants a system in which all employees should be able to be partially remunerated by options, while in the next sentence he says that he does not want options to have any special spread, and that does not matter what is actually in this setting. Because what is actually in this setting is to remove the ceiling of NOK 600 000 that has limited the use of options to now. I would think that's far more than enough for ordinary employees to have options. I'm very surprised that the Centre Party, which in very many areas at least speaks as an SV in terms of distribution policy, in the Chamber here, when it comes to almost all possible proposals on tax policy, adopts in cabins and torments with closed eyes. The consequences of the distribution policy should be considered in a way later. It is very strange that the Centre Party, which is so critical of the comments, cannot at the same time vote in favour of SV's proposal, which is to determine the impact of this, both in terms of distribution policy and in terms of nutrition policy. You don't have to use Norwegian business as a research laboratory for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e419	I guess that's where the largest difference between the center part and SV is. We both want to deal with what's going on in the business world, and to try things out in the business world and not just in the research labs. It is quite obvious that Kristin Halvorsen is entitled to the fact that there are quite obvious drawbacks to the option arrangements as well. But we want a greater spread of the scheme. We want more widespread use in newly established businesses, precisely because we think it contributes to innovation. I think it helps to ensure that many more employees in the newly established companies can participate in the capitalisation – not just the owners and the management. I've been a business owner and business manager almost all my adult life, and I know that it's not just my work as owner and manager of the company that makes the company have an appreciation, it's also to the greatest extent the other employees' profits. I actually thought that it should be good SV policy to allow employees to participate in the capitalisation of the company in which they themselves are working to raise increased values, precisely through these kinds of schemes to which it is stimulated here. In the case of the 600,000 kroner ceiling, my side is primarily about a simplification grip, as it also says in the proposition. It is administratively heavy both for the company, for the equality authorities and for the employees to deal with a ceiling of NOK 600 000. What is important in relation to the prevalence of the use of options is not the ceiling but the tax date. Taxation at the time of acquisition limits it to a few who have the possibility to participate in the option scheme. One excludes the vast majority of ordinary employees in an enterprise, precisely because they do not have the economy to use the option scheme. It'll be leaders with good finances who can then use the option mechanism, and then we'll be back to the old arrangement. That is why we want to shift the tax time, just to make the scheme available to the maximum number of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e428	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e431	SV is surprised that this matter should be rushed through in Stortinget, for there is nothing to suggest that the Stortinget must make a decision on this now. The background is as well known that the five bourgeois parties in the Stortinget ordered the Government to present this matter, and so did the Government in the hurry without any of the social or economic consequences being investigated. What perhaps surprises me most is that a working party government, with a very critical LO in its back – I kept saying – chooses to offer reliefs in option taxation without thinking about the consequences. The modest research that has been done on options, the spread of options, and the effect it has, we have from the United States. Professor Holden is probably the one who has spoken the most about it in Norway. What Holden always concludes with, related to American research, is that there is no basis to say that options actually have the intended effect. What we've been busy about from SV is that before we adopt the type of relief that is proposed here, we have to go in and figure out what effect it has. The only argument used in the debate is that small ICT entrepreneurs must have that kind of relief to stay in Norway. If that's true, SV shouldn't be a stranger to sniff at it. But do we know anything about that? No, no, no. So we don't know anything if it's actually the reality, or if it's just a mouthhole that should have become a general truth without anyone having examined it. We are concerned that people should be able to create their own business and that employees should be able to participate in the creation of value. We are also concerned about having healthy businesses, including in the new industries that are emerging. But how to stimulate it, we don't know anything about it. We also know nothing about options, and that is the reason why SV has put forward a proposal to examine them more closely before we may provide that type of relief. The reason we have had this kind of tax on options in Norway is the misuse and the unculture that we saw for an eight, ten years ago – most will remember Schnitler and Kværner. That is the actual background on which the option tax was tightened. We have many examples in Norway, but also abroad, that options obviously work opposite what is intended. It almost doesn't go for a week without notice what I would call abuse of option arrangements, arrangements that obviously have only one purpose, and that's enriching leaders in companies. What we have to figure out is whether options are an actual tool to achieve what we want. The majority of the population say yes and amen without having reflected more closely on it, and it amazes me. In particular, I think it's surprising that the center parties so unreservedly jump on this without having thought it through more carefully if that's actually what you want. It also surprises me that the Storting is able to be as fragmented as it actually is. Because, at the same time as we in Odelstinget today are to adopt reliefs in the option tax, the social committee sits and discusses the disparity message, which is also to be dealt with in Stortinget. The difference message — or, as it is called, the equalisation message — has one main purpose, and it is to identify how the differences in Norway have developed and what measures can be taken to try to balance the differences. Options are not discussed at all. What is the great weakness of the notification of differences is that the economic conditions associated with taxation are not at all affected. SV has wanted to promote this in this debate, without having a majority in favour of it. Options are a theme that obviously has to be part of the Difference Norway discussion. Here SV, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party have a similar approach in many respects, namely that we want a society with less differences. A larger use of options will obviously lead to exactly the opposite. Greater use of options will lead to greater differences between people. We already know that it's essentially management that gets options and that enriches itself. All the experience, all the empirical evidence, shows that this is the situation. So here you go unreservedly and improve a system that already has a differential effect. It surprises me. Today, SV promotes a proposal, in the hope that in the course of the debate someone will understand that it makes sense to think through this – not only from a difference point of view, but also from a nutritional point of view – if you want to set yourself the goals that everyone here in the Chamber says they want. Founders shall have the opportunity to grow, and non-equity entrepreneurs must have the opportunity to remunerate their employees. Well, SV, we're willing to discuss that, but then we have to see if options are the solution. All experience suggests that options are not the answer, on the contrary, options are part of the problem. We in SV are concerned that these companies should have a framework that is to live with, and we perceive that they have today. Therefore, we have not wanted to facilitate the option tax, but to determine the consequences of the relief, both for society and for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e459	Would the representative, Mr Djupedal, like to make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e462	I refer to SV's suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e467	The representative of Djupedal has then taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e472	In debates, SV’s representatives are often characterised by their holding interesting, intelligent and ideologically well-formed and thought-out posts. You might disagree, but that's often the case. In this debate, it has been completely cut – absolutely and completely. The representative, Djupedal, gives the impression that in this debate there is a dividing line between those who know, and those who don't know. Let me say it this way: right in this area, I don't think SV is at home. I have to say that it is also quite funny to hear a socialist party be so concerned on behalf of capital. This is an expression that maybe this is going to go beyond the owners, maybe it's going to be less long-term, and maybe it gives the owners some power. Yes, the owners actually give away some of the value creation in the company. There is SV concerned about – on behalf of the capital. It's a funny role for a socialist party. We now have a development in the economy with the knowledge economy: Power is shifted from employers to employees. It doesn't have to be researched at a university to find out, it's the description of reality, in the world and partly in Norway. What is SV's reaction to that? One would think that when Marx finally got a little right, SV would rejoice with him – post-mortem. But SV is worried. On behalf of the capital, SV is concerned about the disappearance of power and that employees can eventually also determine a part in addition to the owner of the capital. It's not strange that you're referring to explanations of the type of this we haven't done enough, this is unknown, and this is something new. I just recall the statement the representative of Kristin Halvorsen made earlier that Norwegian IT companies are below the limit of NOK 600 000. None of the Norwegian IT companies are considered to be remaining, i.e. those who have not moved to Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e486	First I have to be allowed to say that I think the Per-Christian Foss representative had a funny line. What makes us in SV have the attitude we have is that the distribution effects of an increase in options are not investigated. However, there is every reason to believe that developments in Norway will be similar to those in other countries. This means that options basically represent an unculture because they are allocated to some professionally. Take, for example: the programme that Merchantildata in Norway has had for options. There was a pre-Christmas program for options to be allocated to the leaders. Then suddenly the course of the dot.com companies fell to the bottom. Then only a new option program was created for the same managers, but at a much lower price, because the price of Merkantildata's shares on the stock exchange had fallen. It shows with all possible clarity how the misuse of options is, that really there is a hidden form of reward for leaders who initially don't even have to be particularly competent. This is the reason for SV’s concern that options should increase in scope. When we tightened up the option tax a few years ago, it was intentional. That means that the number of options has now fallen, and that has also been the opinion of the majority of the population. This means that in the period in which the number of options has decreased, other forms of reward systems have been found for capable people, which are more transparent and more accessible. But it is also true that the representative Foss is concerned about – or at least is concerned about – how this actually affects the company itself. The reason why we're spending time on it in the debate is just as simple as when we're going to the kind of relief we're doing here, there's no real impact either on society or on business and business in particular. But we have reason to believe that development here will be the same as in many other countries, and that's why SV's concern or that SV will poke a little bit in the majority of the population, because you just accept without further ado that it is. But we don't know if it's this grip that's going to make small ICT companies grow and grow and live happily and for a long time in the country. We don't know anything about that. We want to find out more about that, because we want them to live a long time in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e497	I agree with Mr Djupedal that there is a very interesting and intense debate in the United States about option programmes. This will take place, among other things: a debate on the issue of owners goes too far in giving away parts of the value creation to employees through options. I think it's going to be too far and too short to that, but it's actually not a political task, much less an investigative task for sociologists on the Blind or Berkeley, to sit and decide. It's actually the owners' responsibility, because it's the owners who give up part of the value creation. After they have paid their taxes and behaved properly and according to US and Norwegian laws and regulations, it is the right of the owners to decide. Then, of course, like Djupedal, you can be concerned that the owners go too far in giving too much to the employees, but it's a concern that I don't share. I believe that it is the right of the owners to decide both healthy and unhealthy option programmes and by experience actually do so. Then it's another moment. Today, Norwegian IT companies say that when they are going to enter the market and raise new capital, the valuation of the company depends to a large extent on the fact that they have an option programme. Why? Well, then the owners of the company show that they believe in the company, and that they have employees who do. It is the best guarantee that the company's value in the market actually reflects the values of the company, as well as the capitalisation potential, as it is so beautiful, of the company. It's the world of reality. When SV is concerned about the distribution, I do not understand that, because the biggest problem is the difference between those who have work and those who do not have work, and at least there is no less work being done by the IT companies in Norway. You can discuss how much more it's going to be, but it's not going to be anything smaller. The second large difference goes between those who have capital income and those who do not have capital income. What happens to option programmes? Indeed, thousands of new employees receive capital income, and there are at least no major differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e508	What is obvious is that the new knowledge economy is confronting politicians with completely new issues. It is quite clear that in the old industrial society we have had a form of taxation that reflects the social structure and that the new knowledge-based economy and completely different forms of corporate formation pose a completely different challenge for us. Options are part of that challenge, because that means we have to find other forms of fair taxation. What is behind this whole discussion is that you have a expectation that in the future these businesses will make money and become very valuable, while today they do not have money to pay. It is clear that it faces the challenge both the majority of the population and the SV: how do we proceed in order to achieve a fair form of taxation? I don't think options necessarily are the solution. It is well possible that options can be a solution if you create an option program that grants options to all employees, who have a justice at the bottom and not just favor top managers, as option programs so far have done. All experience shows that there is more to be given to the management of businesses, without qualifications, only with stock exchange value requirements. And if there's something that's really right, it's that the stock exchange value of these companies doesn't reflect the value of the companies at all. We see that very well now when the Nasdaq index falls. The Norwegian Internet companies and dot.com companies then also fall completely regardless of whether they are capable or not. That's it. When it sneezes in the United States, we get cold in Norway. This is particularly the case with the dot.com companies. This means that the stock exchange value of these companies is halved over a relatively short period of time, completely independent of – let's say – what idea, what corporate culture or competence exists in these companies. We have wanted the option system to be further explored in order to find out the consequences. But what may be the most important thing is what challenges the new knowledge economy is facing us, and what action the Norwegian big business and we as a nation can take to stimulate that culture. Only providing general relief in option taxation is no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e517	After listening to the representative Djupedal here today, I am getting more and more amazed at SV's argument. Obviously, there is much more to the map than the terrain, because Djupedal uses the discussion of employee options as an illustration of the need to renew the tax system in general. Djupedal could have had a point if he had said that in a more open international society with globalisation and increased competition, there is a challenge that there is a greater need to tax what it is not possible to move out of the country, in order to tax less what can be moved out. It would have been a point, and one of the things that can really move out is the ICT workforce in Norway. In Norway, we have relatively low, competitive wages in the case of trained civil engineers, engineers who have worked for four to five years in the workplace. But some of the companies actually can't afford to pay them what they're worth, and instead give them an option. Then to the short-circuit that lies in Djupedal's argument. He says that now, through this setting of giving employee options, we're going to review a change in the tax system. No, we don't. We've just shifted the tax time from the grant date to the option. So Djupedal says that this will lead to great tax relief, and that they are, almost will not pay taxes. As far as periods are concerned, the question is whether you have to pay 80 pst. or 50 pst. marginal tax. When you go into the system that the government has put up with now, so tax at the time that you actually use the option, you also have to pay 50 pst. marginal tax. So you are not exempt from tax, you have to pay the usual income tax in Norway, which is now among the highest in the world in terms of marginal taxes on labour income, up to 55,5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e528	I think this is starting to be a very interesting debate, because this debate is about far more than just options, which is really the background for Odelsting's treatment. If you look at what tax assets you have, internationally, or at least in our nearest neighbouring country, you will see that Norway is different in many respects. Mr. Burnde, or representatives from the Right, would like to draw up the property tax as an example of a strange tax and say it should be removed. If we go to our neighbouring country, we will experience that there are completely different tax assets. In particular, housing, property and inheritance are taxed. For example, Americans have a completely different form of housing and property taxation from what we have in Norway. And the reason for that is partly what the OECD itself says, that taxing real estate, which Børge Burnde had inside his post, i.e. objects that cannot be moved, is easier than taxing, for example. knowledge that can be moved, or people or capital that can be moved. I think what's most important in a tax system is that the system feels fair. So there's no goal for SV that we're going to have high tax rates. It is an objective that we should have a broad tax base with relatively low rates, but they should be fair. This option tax that we are discussing today is a step towards greater injustice, because the premises that are important to SV are not at the bottom, namely that the options should be allocated to all, and not only necessarily enrich the management of the company – as all history and experience suggest. We want this to be further explored, but what is perhaps the most important thing is that we need to discuss not just the option tax, but how we as a society, the Norwegian economy and the political environment can facilitate the growth and growth of those types of businesses in Norway, at the threshold of a new economy that everyone is talking about – an economy where new dot.com companies may be the future. Option taxation is part of this, but that's not necessarily the answer, maybe it's part of the problem. So we don't know anything about that. There is a discussion The Norwegian growth has to go much further, namely about the old industrial society and the kind of tax we have had, possibly belongs to a past time. Now we have to look at how we're going to be able to go into the new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e544	Let me first say that I think this is a somewhat wonderful debate. SV has stated that they are concerned about being a party that believes in the new economy and understands how it should work, and then they argue as we hear now. The reality is that capitalism is getting a completely different character, that a large part of the capital owns is knowledge capital, and knowledge demands to share this ownership with more. In fact, options are about co-ownership, and therefore about how one should be able to distribute ownership among several. There is a good distribution policy in terms of capital, and some of those who claim to understand a betrayal of the new economy should have been concerned. What Odelstinget is doing today is actually being the business manager for some necessary grip. You may or may not, but it is necessary for the Norwegian economy. Now, when we're in a phase where we're going to transform into a new economy, a much more knowledge-based economy, it's necessary to give this kind of partnership the many possibilities. I want to use a reasoning as a basis for stressing how necessary this is now. We know that in this transformation phase we are facing some strange issues: oil and gas revenues will flatten out. It makes us want to have a clear need to get new businesses and a new nutrient base that we don't see today. There is an extensive need to feed new businesses in Norway. The previous government was given a comprehensive report on this, which suggested that we need as much as 200,000 new businesses over a 15-20 year period. It's a formidable task. This means that in 15-20 years, maybe only 20 pst. of today's businesses are still there, and we have to replace very many of the old businesses with new ones. So there are a lot of new businesses to be born, and in a strange situation, where everything suggests that labour shortages are going to be an important driving force in the economy. Enterprises must fight with each other, but also with the public sector, to obtain useful labour. This means that there will be a very rapid competition between established enterprises that are able to pay a lot for a scarce workforce, and the new enterprises, on which we depend, but which are unable to attract labour because they do not have the ability to pay at an early stage of the company's life. This competition can be very dangerous for the Norwegian economy if we do not have the ability to allow the new businesses, the new-born enterprises, to grow by attracting labour. Here, options and options programmes are very central. One does not have the ability to pay the wages that the established enterprises can pay at the start-up stage, but one has the ability to give employees an opportunity to participate in the further development of the enterprise. That is why this type of programme is so important. So one could reflect a lot on the political curvature. It's not like this is unexplained or debated, as you might have the impression when the conservative socialists say their views on this. It's rather the opposite, this has been of the most repeated themes in this room. And I remember very well when a majority in this room just four years ago terminated the option scheme we had, and introduced taxes at the time of the grant. Then the current finance minister was the head of the finance committee and presented, I believe, something near exactly the opposite of the arguments that he is going to make in the next post he is going to make today. But it's allowed to come to recognition, so I'm not going to spend any more time harping around. It has been a difficult way to go through the previous government's introduction of the option mechanism, with a clear objection and a very comprehensive debate, which I have expectations of actually helping many more in business to realize that we do not want this to be a kind of luxury arrangement for the few, but actually a comprehensive programme to establish partnership. I have reason to believe that this cautious phase-in and the process in which we are now helping business itself and business organisations to the best of their ability will contribute to this not being a scheme for the few leaders, but actually a comprehensive programme of future participation and thus distribution, so that more people can take part in the opportunities of capitalism. It has a good distribution effect, also in establishing all the new businesses that are actually going to help generate the values we need to take care of those who really have problems in society. In this way, it will also make an important contribution to a good distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e561	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e564	There's a lot of reasons to enjoy the left. It's just a shame that the joy often gets so short-lived. It is often the case that when a left-wing representative, especially in the Financial Committee, makes an opinion, and we are asked by the press if we agree with that opinion, I very often say yes, I agree with the heart. But the next day, the opinion is drawn. I am sitting here with a statement by Terje Johansen, a member of the Finance Committee of the Left, who said to a newspaper here, Today's Business, that it's totally unacceptable not to go in for periodicization, that is, a marginal tax of 80 pst. at the time of redemption, it is impossible to live with. We fully agree with that. But why does the left do not go in for this in the setting? I see you have to figure it out. But it's figured out. The Minister of Finance has sent a long letter to the Committee, where he has answered this question and concluded politically that it does not want the Minister of Finance and the Government to do so. In other words, what is the left hope? Is it that a finance minister is going to turn around once again, that new investigations are going to be carried out, or is it that the centre party is going to turn around, because the centre party has also expressed today in the Chamber that they are likely to vote against such a periodicisation scheme? It would be fine if the Left had at least the same position in the Chamber now that their representative in the Financial Committee had in the course of the proceedings. It had made it more tidy, and it had therefore been possible to hold on to a position that could at least get a certain opening in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e576	Honourable representative! The last sentence of Per-Cristian Foss was quite striking. He said, ‘A certain uproar in the hall’. It's actually the way that the Left is concerned about finding majority solutions. We have to change the policy, and until that, a majority is needed in this Chamber. When Terje Johansen has gone away from what is obviously his primary position – and I share it – and accepts that we are here in a majority who are willing to look into this, there is actually an opportunity in it to influence the policy. That's what this is all about. It is crucial, when we now see the step from us four years ago, that the entire option mechanism was lost as an effective instrument, to the cautious but necessary steps taken by the Bondevik Government, and we know that the framework for this was extended in previous budgetary agreements with the Right and the Progress Party, which also drew in the direction that has been decided today – that we will now in a way establish a much broader legitimacy and understanding of what options are, that it is not an exclusive arrangement for the few, but a completely necessary basic instrument to bring forward the unborn enterprises, offer partnership and thus have the opportunity to share capital income on many more. We want to be involved in this kind of development. We are concerned that there will be practical policies, and not that there will be some support in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e585	The speech must be addressed to the President and not to representatives. But it was probably «a slip of the tongue».
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e589	I was a little surprised when I heard the representative Sponheim's posts, because it has not been very long since the same representative was in government. I remember quite a few rounds that the Right and Advance Party had with the then government parties, hoping to get relief from the option tax. The representative Sponheim just showed that through negotiations we were able to do something with the ceiling – the limits of the amount. Well, at least it wasn't because of the center parties. It was thanks to the Right and the Advance Party, who introduced it as a requirement in the negotiations. In fact, it was almost impossible at that time to get the center parties to recognize the need to facilitate the option tax. Then the expensive thing happened, that there was a government change. And just a few days after that -- I wonder if it wasn't the same day -- the center parties suddenly made suggestions to ease the option tax. I think it's strange that at the moment these parties were put in government, then they wouldn't do anything about the option tax, while at the moment they went out of government, it was suddenly imperative to do something about it. When the representative Sponheim is standing on this pulpit and saying that this has been a long way to go, and that it is a pleasure that we finally get to something, I have to ask why you didn't do anything about this because you really had the opportunity in government and could have got this on shines much faster, knowing that there would have been a majority in the Storting quite so quickly to get to the solutions. I think it's important that the Left acts as part of that community in the center of which they constantly pretend that they're part. Through this debate, it may seem as if the centre is distanced from this centre cooperation. There is a question I would like to answer: Is there a commitment to cooperation in the centre also about options, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e598	This matter has a history back in this room until before the representative Jensen's time, and it was such that the significant deterioration in what was involved in the liquidation of the option arrangement was against the votes of the Left. As far as I remember, it was the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that opposed what was proposed by the former Labour Party government – just so that story is in place. Then the Bondevik government took important steps, namely to accept the principle. Thus, there was a majority in this Chamber to shift the tax time on options within a strongly entrenched framework, as we remember. I think it was NOK 300 000 – as far as I remember the proposal – and through negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party it was increased to NOK 600 000. I have been in debate earlier with the representative Jensen outside this room, where she did not properly remember that such a proposal was actually being made, but it was a fundamentally important clarification that one accepted a different tax date. Then it became a settlement, where this was moved on. As far as I know, at least there was a deal about this, and so all the parties agreed that it was a step to go that was acceptable, and even reasonable. Then we got this scheme with 600,000 kroner as an external frame to move the tax time. The reality was that the previous government – and I think it has been reasonably known – was quite clear when it came to proposing reliefs in the option tax. We were not sure where the Workers' Party was standing here. There are probably very different views – there is a recurring wing and a forwarding wing in this party, as I understand it – and it was uncertain what kind of suggestions they would make. That is why, quite quickly after we came into opposition, we chose to make a proposal that put pressure on the new government to bring about changes in an even more liberal direction, as we now experience. It is, in my opinion, a quite clear consequence of the contribution left has come here to improve the option system, which is necessary, and again I would like to stress: just to take care of partnership and new businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e607	I have two questions to the left, one related to the time of the periodication. The problem of taxing the one-year option profit is that in Norway we have a very high peak tax, a very high marginal tax, of 55.3 p.m., and we have a so-called pay tax on the employer's fee, and the sum of the two taxes at the time you use the option can come up with – a little depending on how you calculate – 80 p.m. marginal tax. Does the representative Sponheim think it's too high? Does the representative Sponheim think it is internationally competitive? How does the representative Sponheim assess the possibility that the centre – also with the Senter Party – can vote for a periodicisation until the fall, when the inquiry by the Minister of Finance is on the table? I think many who follow this debate are interested in that. There are many ICT companies that will place great emphasis on it in relation to how businesses will be established in the years to come. This applies to the taxation of the option exercise. This may mean that employees may also have to sell the shares or take up loans in order to pay the tax, leading to more short-term arrangements and making the option mechanism less suitable for holding key personnel and preventing long-term industrial thinking. It is unreasonable, in my opinion, to levy taxes on income taxpayers have not yet received. Therefore, the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of allowing the possibility of postponing the tax on the shares to be sold. Why is it that the Left does not – which is also in line with the developments we see in many other countries – if the Left believes that this is an important part of a competitive option programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e614	I understand that's a broad acceptance that option schemes are looking at as some kind of remuneration; that's the pay we're talking about. At the moment that an employee who has such a remuneration scheme through options receives ownership of his company by receiving shares, he also acquires a paper that is dramatically more liquid and thus can be traded. In this way, individuals will be able to implement their tax liabilities according to the rules, e.g.: by enabling parts of the shares to be traded, while one chooses to keep others. I'm sure it's a good arrangement. So to the general question of whether we have too much marginal tax burden. Of course, 80 pst. is high tax, but when you get at such a high level of income, it also means that you actually have the ability to pay the high tax. But I agree that there are sensible and good reasonings that suggest that we view this as a remuneration that has fallen over a number of years, and it would also be right to make a real assessment of whether it is not right to distribute this income over this period, so that one gets the marginal tax equal to the different years. I think that's the basis for saying that we're making a dramatic improvement in the option system towards becoming competitive, but we're still not in the top layer of having good option arrangements. There are many who believe that Norway should have the best option program in the world to compensate for other disadvantages. But it is this step that it is politically possible to take in Norway today. I think it's right to take it, and I think it's enough in this game, and then we have to be able to evaluate it continuously. I hope that the Minister of Finance – and he will be able to confirm this in his speech now – will make a real assessment of this, also have a very good dialogue with the industry itself, so that he can present to the Stortinge for the autumn if there is a need to further develop the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e626	The major technological changes provide room for new types of business. We see, for example: creating new enterprises and new jobs based on the new information technology. These are jobs that are almost only based on knowledge. They don't depend on natural resources or anything. which lies a special place, they can be moved quickly. Similarly, those working in these industries can move quickly to activities in other countries. The companies we're talking about here are often started up without a lot of money. However, companies hope to do well in the future. At the same time, the wage level of those working there is high. The new enterprises can pay so much, and it has therefore become common internationally for some of the wages to be paid almost as a «faith in the future». Employees are given the right to purchase part of the company in the future at a fixed price. If the value increases, it can be profitable. Those with such purchasing opportunities have an interest in increasing the value of the enterprise. The owners of the company have the same thing. Internationally, therefore, it is common for those who are also going to purchase into an enterprise to want the enterprise to have an option arrangement for employees. For Norway, it is essential that we get involved in the new businesses that are being set up, among other things. in the field of ICT. It is important to ensure a business life for the future. Similarly, it is important that those with this kind of knowledge find it interesting to work in Norway. This, in turn, makes it difficult for us to have rules that make it considerably more difficult for companies to establish and develop in Norway than in other countries. Once again, we also need rules for options that do not differ much from what is in neighbouring countries. Norway is probably the only country in the world that has tax rules for options that make it possible to buy shares, etc. taxed before use. In our neighbouring country, the tax is calculated when the shares are purchased. Nor is it possible to determine the fair value of the options before that. In Norway, therefore, we have had rules where taxes are paid on a capital increase that no one knows is coming. It has made it more difficult to establish these types of technology businesses in Norway. The Government's proposals propose to amend the Norwegian rules in line with what is more common internationally. Options shall now be taxed at the time of purchase of the shares. The difference between the value of the shares and that paid by the employee, if any, the whole value if the employee has paid nothing, is fully taxed as remuneration. It doesn't necessarily mean any tax havens. The tax rates do not change. The change means, first of all, that the timing of taxation is shifted to what is usual internationally. The change may also, in certain cases, mean an increase in tax. The government is against the industry's proposal to wait with the tax until the shares are sold. The government is against distributing the tax over several years, and the government is against taxing the increase in capital income, which would give lower taxes. There is every reason to react strongly to the greed culture and abuse of option schemes that we have seen at times. But this is a criticism of greed, not of option schemes as a system. The government emphasises several measures that may limit such unreasonable additions to high-income groups. The public limited liability companies must disclose the option arrangement in the annual accounts. The whole value of the option must be taxed as compensation of employees, i.e. that the highest income groups have to pay 55,3 pst. taxes on income. Similarly, employers’ fees are calculated at a particularly high rate. Overall, it will limit the benefits of favourable schemes for those with the highest income. The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, have put forward proposals asking the Government, in the context of the 2001 government budget, to present an assessment of any change in the option tax regime in order to further strengthen options as an instrument for promoting healthy business development and participation. Such an assessment will, of course, be submitted. The proposal refers to a planned consultation on a few option tax themes. One relates to the taxation of options on entry and exit from Norway. The other applies to taxation in cases where the employer has provided for a share gain by securing the employee against losses on issue of the put option, price guarantee, etc. There is still some work to be done before it will be sent to the hearing. I aim to come back with the final proposals for Stortinget during the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e653	First, I must agree entirely with the objective that the Minister of Finance started with, that it is absolutely essential for Norway that we get our share of the new ICT establishments. Then we disagree on what measures need to be taken. But I think the finance minister actually let the cats out of the bag here today. In his statement, he said that with the option taxation rules currently being imposed, in some cases taxes may be higher than normal taxes on income. And it is quite clear that if one had started in a company and the company had been able to afford to pay normal pay instead of giving an option, the employee income would have been deferred over four years, and one could have ended up in a situation where one had not received a check-in tax, nor had one received the last step of the top tax, namely a marginal tax of 55,3 p.m., as the finance minister said, plus the high employer's tax. In many ways, it also shows the weakness of the software that we're now adding up to. The Minister of Finance also pointed out that if we are to be able to get our share of the ICT business start-ups, we must have competitive option tax rules. First of all, I would like answers from the Minister of Finance if, with the proposal that is now being adopted today, he believes that there are competitive option rules in Norway compared to other countries. If we have competitive option rules, that's okay. If we do not have it, what consequences does the Minister of Finance think it will have? So a short question to the assessment that the majority of the population now asks: Does the Minister of Finance perceive the assessment mandate that he has received, so that he will really review the question of periodicisation? Does it want to be part of the investigation that you can first receive tax on the disposal of the shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e662	I would first like to say that my emphasis on the fact that, in some cases, it may involve increased taxation is in relation to current legislation. However, it also has to do with the size of the income and – as the representative was involved – the relationship with top taxes, employers’ taxes, etc. So until the question of whether the rules are competitive: yes, my assessment is that the legislation we present today is competitive. This means that we have the same system as we had before 1996. I believe that it is competitive, and that, as many have also been involved in today's debate, the balance between the need to have legislation that is comparable with the countries with which we compete, while options – which are actually paid – also have to be taxed as wages. Then the representative raised questions about how I evaluate the assessment theme that might be adopted today. I see it as a request from Stortinget to provide material as a basis for an assessment. I don't think it's a request to land on a particular conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e671	The council has been present in the Chamber all day, so I do not need to repeat SV's arguments against any reliefs in the option tax. I just want to ask the Council of State to consider the following: if you see developments in many comparable countries, you will see that options are part of an unculture that leads to greater differences. Are the Councils concerned and concerned about it? And will the Council of State in the assessment by the majority of the population, with the exception of the SV and the Workers' Party, have asked the Government to present, including what development of business policy may be facilitated by the option tax? It specifies that there should be a ‘healthy industrial development’. This means that there is also a need to consider what is unhealthy business development. And that means that the whole difference-Norway problem and what development a more extensive use of options will get, also has to go into such a consideration. I ask the Council of State to also include some words about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e680	I record the views of the representative, Mr Djupedal, on the material to be provided in connection with the 2001 national budget. We will also try to satisfy the desire to clarify the type of questions asked by the representative. So I want to say that it's right that we see the expression of a greed culture that in many contexts is also related to the use of options. At the same time, it is important to distinguish between greed culture and options as a system. It's not options like a system that promotes greed. It is rather that where greed may exist, you sometimes choose to use options as an instrument to put an end to it. But it is not the options as a system that in that case is the crucial problem. I also feel the need to dedramatise some of the issues directly related to options. Thus, it is fully possible to give bonus schemes related to share price development and to have pay systems related to the issue of confusion equal to the option issue, which is then taxed later than the time when this bonus scheme is established. So I don't think we should necessarily say that in any case the option system is what matters. Unfortunately, it is the attitude behind the exploitation of the different systems, which is often so crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e690	It was the Minister of Finance's opinion that with the decision that the Stortinget is making today, we will have a competitive option programme, even in relation to the countries it is natural to compare with, which led me to take the floor. According to several independent studies – and the one that I focus on here is made by KPMG Law – the total tax and employer tax on employee options in innovation companies, even with the present proposal, is marked higher in Norway than in other European countries and the United States. KPMG compares the effect of the option tax rules of different countries on an option programme of 100 options per share and with a market value per share. share at grant date of EUR 100. It is assumed that the redemption price after a term of five years is EUR 100 and that the market value of the shares is then EUR 500 per share. the action. One year after redemption, the shares are sold at EUR 100. It is assumed that the worker is single and earns EUR 70000 each year throughout the period. The comparison shows that Norway differs from a very high employer charge. The other countries in the survey impose no or almost negligable employers’ fees. Compared with Sweden — the Minister of Finance was also in the neighbouring countries — Norway has almost twice the overall tax level for employee options in innovation enterprises. For the employee, too, the tax burden will be very high if the highest level of tax is triggered. I would like to have the Minister of Finance's comment on these figures and a clarification of what the Ministry of Finance is basing its analysis on in relation to the fact that we are now receiving a competitive option programme. I think it'll please the whole industry if it can now be documented – in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e699	It is obvious that there are many countries that have more favourable arrangements than Norway has. But my assessment is that the deviations that may occur after the change that has now been proposed are of such a nature that they will be ‘competitive’ in the sense that they will not give rise to differences that are such as to prevent their establishment in Norway. Having said that, I would also like to stress that, through the change that is now taking place, we are ensuring that the taxation of options is comparable to the taxation of wages. My basic starting point is clear: options in employment are to count as wages and salaries, and must then be taxed as wages and salaries. I am aware that parts of the industry have a somewhat different assessment of that issue, and that there is a need for specific tax incentives that make the taxation of those who take out options easier than general wage taxation. That's a point of view I disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e706	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[Footage, see page 576]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e722	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e733	Ot. pp. No 47 for 1999-2000 is a follow-up to the conciliation reached between the central government and the Labour Party during the treatment of the State budget for 2000. The agreement meant that Section 8 of the Property Tax Act would not enter into force until the Ministry had found through law and regulations changes to a tax system that guaranteed municipalities continued property tax revenue of NOK 1 billion. Ot. pp. No 47 is essentially a follow-up to what the central government had done. What this issue is all about is how to distribute the income from natural resources. The centre party is of the opinion that municipalities that allocate a resource to the large community by letting waterfalls and rivers be built will be left with a reasonable share of the revenue from this power plant. Today, municipalities receive income from power plants through property taxes and natural resource taxes. The last form of taxation is independent of the profitability of the power plant. The centre party has considered – and continues to believe – that taxes on land interest to the State mean that the State receives more and more of the water energy income according to the petroleum tax model. We are primarily in favour of a different model of power plant taxation than the one we are today agreeing to give our support. I refer in this connection to Innst. O. No 62 for 1995-1996, where our vision is moving forward. Since our primary position did not receive a majority, we are now subsidizing the scheme in this position, because it ensures the municipalities income from power generation plants in 2001 of an estimated DKK 1 billion. That being said, it may have to be added that over the past week, however, I have received several telephone calls from concerned rapporteurs who can tell that their sampling of their own power stations shows a time-consuming loss of revenue as a result of the new rules. Against this background, I am pleased, and would like to clarify, that the majority has said that the Government must come back with any changes to the taxation rules if the revenues of the municipalities would prove to differ significantly from the proceeds of the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, of course, we must bear in mind that the current prices of power are low and that the revenues of municipalities will increase with increasing prices of power. Even after we've treated Ot.prp. No 47, there is reason to question whether the distribution effects between municipalities are within acceptable frameworks. Therefore, the majority of the Committee – all except the Right Party and the Advance Party – also ask the Ministry to consider whether, in the light of the introduction of the Property Tax Act, § 8 there is a need for adjustments in order to avoid any adverse distribution effects. Due to a lack of communication between the Ministry and the Committee, one of the comments of the suspension and the proposal for a second sentence of the second paragraph of Paragraphs 18 to 5 of the Tax Act was given a content different from that of the majority in this Chamber today. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left will vote in favour of the draft legislative text as originally proposed by the Ministry, and I shall justify this card. In the event of an incurrency, the word ‘last’ in the draft legislative text of the Committee has been replaced by ‘first’. This makes the whole text of the law meaningless. In addition, the proposal of the Committee provides for exemptions for spot price fixing for long-term contracts, as exemplified by the so-called Nea contract. There are several reasons why I would recommend voting against the Committee's recommendation. The proposal complicates the valuation and provides the basis for new disputes. It is highly unclear what is contained in contracts that have been a prerequisite for obtaining a concession. Three times the question has been raised to the Supreme Court. In Judicial Journal 1994, page 339, the Court of Justice states the following: ‘What are, in practice, concession terms, however, often difficult to establish, and such a rule will provide the basis for disputes.’ Given that one of the main objectives of the new valuation rules has been to simplify processes and to reduce the basis for disputes, it seems to be a little fortunate that we should today introduce such a provision as the Supreme Court has so clearly distanced itself from. Such a provision as proposed would also represent a significant breach of the applicable taxation rules. Last but not least, the proposal will mean a further reduction in the proceeds of the power stations. Proposal for charging rules contained in Ot.prp. No 47, is not in itself sufficient to comply with the decision in relation to budget revenue. S. I for 1999-2000. The rule proposed by the Committee implies a further reduction in proceeds which would be contrary to the agreement concluded last autumn. On the basis of this, I would like to address proposal No. 2, which is distributed in the place of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e774	The representative of Enoxsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e779	When Stortinget dealt with the conversion of the power plant tax, Per Olaf Lundtägen from the Senterpartiet was the case rapporteur. He then used the opportunity to use this as the crown example of all the various errors that existed in the Norwegian community. Not least, he was very concerned with the market thinking of the ‘Blue Brussels’ and referred to this power plant tax system as one example of it. Among other things, he said in the debate: ‘However, the worst thing is that the market binding of the power sector provides Norwegian power supply and power-intensive industry with a railway year and breaks down the basis of the social contract between the large society and the resource municipalities’. And he goes on to say, «The central party cannot accept that the tax rules are based on exchange prices.» A little later in the same post, when they are to be commended for the fact that there have been changes due to the influence of the Centre Party, despite their choosing to stand out from the conciliation, is one of the important areas he draws forward: ‘The central party was prevented from making the Government’s proposal that spot prices’ — and that is the stock exchange prices — ‘on industrial contracts should be taken into account from the first day with the new tax system’. Then I have to admit that I'm a little bit wondering why the Central Party is now basing prices on the stock exchange, which was one of the ideological resistance points Per Olaf Lundtägen and the Centerpartiet at the property tax in 1996. Because that is what you actually do when you say that long-term contracts are to be set at spot prices – the famous ‘exchange prices’ of Per Olaf Lundtigen. What's happened to the Center Party? Is it so that e.g. the long-term effects of this in relation to the powerful industry are no longer significant? And is all the ideological resistance to using spot prices, and not actual prices, gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e799	The representative Solberg knows very well what is the central party's primary position, and what has been the central party's primary position all the way. As late as last autumn, I made a very strong decision to keep the old Section 8 of the Property Tax Act, precisely because, in my opinion, it would give the best distribution effect and the safest basis for the municipalities to get their fair share of the value creation from the development of hydropower. It's been the central party's primary position all the way. However, it has been shown that it is not possible to agree to such a position in the Stortinget. The size has remained constant throughout this process, despite the fact that negative distribution effects have been documented and despite evidence that the tax estimate is likely to be well below the one billion estimated by the Grand Duchy in 1996. Now, after the budgetary agreement concluded between the Centre and the Workers' Party last year, the Government has come up with a scheme that, in sum, will give approximately the same tax income to the municipalities that the old scheme provided. We've recognised that we're not getting an impact on our primary position, and then join in what we see as the next best. But I want to clarify, as I said in my main post, that there are still things that indicate that the proceeds can be wrong, precisely because the valuation can be lower than it seems that it is going to be, and because the distribution effects between the municipalities might be larger than what you initially thought. That's why a majority has also agreed to review this. I find it quite uninteresting to refer back to a debate that took place in 1996, all the time our primary position, which stands firm, and all the arguments that Per Olaf Lundtigen used at the time, which also stands firm, do not get majority in the Storting. This is therefore our subsidiary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e810	Interestingly, it is Odd Roger Enoxen who is to appear to be the leading exponent and spokesman of the "blurussen". In fact, when we were dealing with the tax system, we were concerned not only with the effect between municipalities, but also with what principle would underlie the different parts of a tax system. In reforming a tax system, one must be primarily concerned with having the right structure, not with the correct distribution of tax revenue. And so in the structural area, the spot prices were the Senter Party's biggest attack point. Why were they? Yes, because the use of spot prices will result in taxation of revenues that you do not have in respect of long-term contracts. Again, it will be able to influence the possibility of launching new long-term contracts and weaken the possibility of obtaining good prices for power-intensive industries in the future. It was Per Olaf Lundtägen's reasoning. But I did not hear a word from Odd Roger Enoxsen except that power-producing municipalities would receive higher incomes. Does it mean to the Central Party that the district aspect related to the powerful industry and taxation no longer has any value? Is it just how much the power-intensive municipalities get that matters? In that case, I must say that there has been a considerable shift in what the district policy of the Central Party should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e817	First of all, there is essentially one company that is affected by the fact that there is a spot price that is used and not the long-term contracts, and that is Statkraft, a 100 pst. State-owned company, which has half of its output related to the powerful industry, and where, therefore, the long-term contracts result in the payment of a VAT at today's spot price. And of course, there can be a lot of evidence that it could be the situation in the future as well. From our point of view, from the moment we dealt with this in 1996, it has been assumed that the municipalities would retain a share of the tax of approximately NOK 1 billion. The arrangement that has now been made by the Government has made it possible to get into a situation where the municipalities therefore retain this tax of approximately NOK 1 billion. In fact, it does not have to be as the representative Solberg describes, that the spot market price is always above all long-term contracts. Sometimes it may be a power company that has the power to conclude a contract — if not precisely with the powerful industry, so other long-term contracts — that in fact, in sum over a certain period, may have a higher price than the spot market price would be. Then it turns out the opposite way of the representative Solberg now claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e824	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e827	With the presentation of Ot.prp. No 47 on property taxes on power plants — and with the treatment of the Stortingen today — the last piece is put in place in the new rules on income and wealth taxation of hydropower activities in Norway. The road here has been long and many conflicts of interest have been weighed along the way, both with regard to the decisions taken in 1996 and with regard to the decision taken today. Interests balanced in relation to each other are the question of how to manage natural resources to benefit the whole country, how to safeguard the company's interests in terms of performance and further development, and the question of how to manage the host municipality or the power plant municipality, among others. to be compensated for inconvenience or interference in nature, which is a prerequisite – especially for all of us who do not live in these municipalities – for us to benefit from the power produced. With the changes in corporate structures and power turnover, it has been reasonable and necessary to look at and adapt the tax system to a new power regime. Today's power turnover is internationalised in a completely different way, and for the most part it is traded through purchases and sales in a relatively liberal power market. This was part of the background to the changes in the principle of plant tax adopted in 1996, whereby profitability criteria and the possible value-for-sale of output were increasingly used for the taxation of power companies and power plants. This is also followed up in proposals for property taxes when the spot market price is taken as the basis for the valuation calculations. This principle has been weighed against the fact that several power companies do not have the opportunity to follow in the creation of spot prices, as they have long-term contracts with binding prices. In addition, several power plants have provisions in their concession terms to deliver power at a specified price. In its hearings, the Committee received several representatives who considered it unreasonable not to take into account in long-term contracts the valuation of the potential income for the work. In this respect, however, one shall be aware that such contracts are being phased out and replaced by a system based on spot market prices, and it shall also be said that most long-term contracts today have a price fixing that is broadly consistent with the current market price. However, one exception has been made for this principle and power is taken out of power plants under concession conditions. Another aspect that is followed up in this proposition is the assumptions that the Storting assumed, and the assumptions that were clarified in the Storting, in the Budget Centre. S. I for 1999-2000. A clear premise was that the municipalities of power were to secure income of an estimated DKK 1 billion in proceeds through property taxes. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposal presented must be in line with such an intention, despite the fact that overall revenue in 2001 is slightly lower, because the prices of electricity are relatively low today. However, overall proceeds will increase with increasing prices, and therefore the majority of the Committee considers that the Storting assumptions will be met in this way. In the end, it has been the Government's intention to make as simple and predictable a law as possible, and I am afraid that in the committee through our work and proposal to amend Section 18 we have contributed to ambiguities that if it remained standing, we could invite to a number of legal cases. The majority of the Committee has therefore, when it was clear, tried to rectify this by reverting to the Government's original proposal, as stated in the motion for a resolution, and as the rapporteur in the matter has also pointed out through the proposal he made on behalf of the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e840	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e844	When the Storting dealt with the matter in 1996, we were concerned that the principles should be bearer regardless of the level of income or the level of prices, that we had to create a system that was robust, also for a situation where, for example, spot market prices were significantly higher than they are today. And not least, we were concerned that, together with a more liberalised energy market, it was important to take into account that the tax system did not create specific problems in establishing long-term contracts. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance’s proposal on spot pricing as a basis was removed and actual prices in the contracts were to be taken into account. It was a principle that also the Workers' Party early in its own treatment hoped for by the Government's arrangement and took a strong distance from, for the effects at that time – this was a year when we among others. so much higher spot prices than we have seen in recent years – would have had a very strong impact not only on the profitability of energy companies, but also on the future ability of industry to establish long-term contracts at a price level that could make them competitive in the future. Now we know that there are other market changes at the same time, for example. the fact that ESA has now addressed the question of whether we can continue with the industrial contracts we have had in the future. Then the question of which tax system we have becomes very important. That means that we may no longer be able to lay down special contracts, but that the market has to solve them. Then the question is: does the representative Hildeng see that in a given situation, where, for example, they can be found? has a spot price of 20 øre and taxes of 20 øre will have an impact on the functioning of the market in relation to the prices that will be given on a long-term contract, that the tax system to which it is now charged with spot prices and changes in the long term will actually have to contribute to increasing long-term prices for long-term contracts to power-intensive industries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e855	As I see it here, this is just a tax system that is adapted to a new power regime, where power is traded on a market. I also see that the agreements that are concluded are based on the fact that they will more and more follow the changes and assumptions in the market, and I believe that this has been taken into account in the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e860	I have to say that I didn't get wise on that answer. I would like to hear a yes or no whether the representative Britt Hildeng agrees to give increasing spot market prices – which was therefore the profile you saw in the years to come, it was obvious that the market price of energy would rise – given that the price in the spot market, for example. In fact, a tax system based on the spot market price, which depends on how much it rains in Norway, will also result in companies paying a risk premium if they enter into long-term contracts, and it will increase the whole price of the powerful industry in Norway. I just want to know if the representative Britt Hildeng sees that these are the consequences of using this principle, and at the same time ask whether it is such that this principle should be borne throughout the power plant tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e867	As the suspension exists, it precisely balances the different interests here, so that the long-term contracts are also performed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e872	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e875	The Party emphasises that the new rules on property taxes on power plants are as robust as possible against changes in the power price and that the changes made are essentially justified. It would be unfortunate to develop a practice in which the Storting amends the legislation as the price of power changes. The Progress Party emphasises that the total taxation of electricity undertakings takes into account both the revenues of municipalities, the competitive conditions of Norwegian power producers and the needs of industry for access to stable power supplies. The Progress Party refers to the consolidation of Nordic and European power generation and is committed to ensuring competitive framework conditions for Norwegian operators. It is important for Norwegian energy companies to be able to take advantage of their natural advantages and the opportunities offered by the liberalisation of the European energy market. The Contracting Party has noted that the Ministry takes the opportunity to propose not to take into account the price level of long-term supply contracts when calculating the property tax base. The Party considers that it is not reasonable for production companies which have concluded long-term industrial power supply contracts to pay property taxes based on current spot prices. The tax should be based on actual current income and not on a spot price for production companies. The Progress Party emphasises that this will provide a more robust framework for the powerful industry and reduce the risk of the power company in the conclusion of long-term contracts. This principle has so far been based, and the Progress Party believes that this must continue to be the basis. The Party opposes the proposal to reduce the additional risk of the standard interest rate used in the current value calculations of the net earnings of power stations and the property tax base. The proposal appears to be largely justified by the wish to increase the income from property taxes in 2001, not by changes in the price of risks in the power market. On this basis, the foreground lot goes against the proposed reduction in the risk premium in the standard interest rate for the calculation of the property value from 4 to 3 pst. The Progress Party supports the Ministry's proposal to introduce a minimum value for production facilities set at DKK 0,50 per year. kWh on the basis of the natural resource tax base of the installation. This will ensure individual municipalities against severe reductions in the income from property taxes on power plants during periods of very low power prices. In order to ensure that some producers of power against strong increases in property taxes this year at very high electricity prices, the Progress Party proposes, at the same time, the introduction of a corresponding maximum value for production facilities set at DKK. 1.50 p.m. kWh. I take this up with me the minority proposal from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e899	Kenneth Svendsen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e902	The implementation of the 1996 electricity tax reform was a major shift in the various elements of the tax system, and there were a few objectives that were quite clear in this conversion. One was to secure income for the municipalities where power plants are located, and the other was to ensure proper and prudent framework conditions for power producers. In these elements of the tax reform, one of the elements was the introduction of Section 8 of the tax on property. As you know, it was postponed, and that's what we have to deal with today. Now I'm not going to go all the way from 1996 onwards, but this has been a sailing that has been both fragile and difficult. But there is now a proposal for the introduction of Section 8. When it comes to power taxes, there are two strong interests with strong points of view that have some shared views about this. On the one hand there are the water-power municipalities, and on the other hand there are the power plant owners. However, these two strong parties with such different points of view have one common point of view, namely that it is important that § 8 is now introduced. Then there's a different view of several things. The power plant owners include: come with some objections, including: if they believe that when there is a minimum price of force in the charging system, there should also be a maximum price. To this end, it would be a whole new principle, as power plant taxation is now based on an income-based system. On the other hand, from the water-power communities, it has also been claimed in recent times that the introduction of this reform should last until next year, because it will be too soon to do so from the coming year. To say that I have not registered a signal from the department that there will be difficulties associated with the introduction. We from our side do not take this into account either. But the whole thing is actually a reasonable compromise, where one has tried to take care of very different, actually directly conflicting interests. With compromise, I am thinking about the whole issue of the power tax reform, as it was adopted in 1996, and not just isolated to what we are discussing today, Section 8 of the tax on property. Against this background, the Christian People's Party will vote for the vote and for the proposal that is being made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e919	First, I want to fix two errors in the setting. The second column of page 7 of the Committee’s notes reads: ‘The Committee endorses the Government’s proposal to repeal the special valuation rules’. It shall read: ‘majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progressive Party and the Right’, etc. In the proposal for a decision, the first sentence of the second paragraph of Section 18-5 contains a second line error, which reads: «the sum of each of the first five years spot market prices». The correct thing shall be: ‘the sum of each of the last five years spot market prices’. The same problem is also shown on page 8 of the first column. So to the matter itself. This is a complicated matter with many stakeholders. The right considers that power plant taxation must be seen in the context of the deregulation of the power industry in Norway, and in particular that this has gone unnoticed. It has unfortunately turned off Norwegian power companies, and is a serious competition problem for the Norwegian power industry. The introduction of the electricity market reform in 1990 and the subsequent integration of Nordic and European energy markets should have put tax issues and international competitiveness at the heart of the energy policy agenda. The pursuit of planned fiscal policies under market economy conditions has clearly had adverse consequences. While the exposure of electricity companies to price risk results directly from real market processes, the authorities did not follow up with similar tax reforms until 1996-97. Among other things, performance-dependent percentage comparisons resulted in Statekraft as a central Norwegian power company being heavily taxed for a number of years despite excessive deficits due to low power prices. In the same period – and I think it is worth noting – both IVO and the large Swedish company Vattenfall strengthened themselves through increased earnings. State power, on the other hand, lost considerable impact at an early stage in which the former Norwegian market reform provided an experiential advantage which, with greater resources, could have been traded earlier in much more powerful national and international commercial positioning. So we have our own ability here to weaken the opportunities of our own companies to go out. In areas where we have a clear comparative advantage, we are not good either. In terms of hydropower, our companies should have had a power regime to convert, so that they could also go out, buy up and become large and powerful units as an important base of Norwegian competence. I have also seen that the department uses the opportunity to propose not to take into account the price level in long-term supply contracts when calculating the property tax base. These included: the discussion between Erna Solberg and Odd Roger Enoxsen, and not least between the representatives Erna Solberg and Britt Hildeng. After all, it is not reasonable for production companies that have concluded long-term industrial power supply contracts to pay property taxes based on current spot prices. The tax should be based on actual current income and not on a spot price for production companies. It is a fundamental principle in our tax system that taxes should be taxed on the basis of ability, and so power companies should tax on a spot price in the market instead of taxing on the long-term supply agreement they have actually entered into with important companies in Norway related to the powerful industry. In this area, I had actually not expected the Norwegian Workers' Party to fail. I had also not expected the Centre to fail such a significant resource in the Norwegian community, and not least an important currency-making industry. On the right, we stress that the powerful industry should be given more stable framework conditions, thus reducing the risk of power companies entering into long-term contracts. Now these are going to be phased out, so you could say that the significance of them is going to be a little bit less in the future. There must now be a more balanced system in this area, where not the entire ‘upside’ is taken by those who in their time have been so fortunate and have these power resources. It is also underlined by the Progress Party and the Right that the entry into force of the Property Tax Act § 8, first paragraph, can only take place once the rules have been brought into line with the Stortingen's assumption of the force tax reform in 1996. The majority at the time showed in the setting of the following: ‘The majority refers to proposals in this recommendation to take account of long-term contracts and power produced and used in the same undertaking by: the actual prices and prices laid down in the 1976 contracts are taken into account in determining normal sales income. The majority indicates that this will result in reduced income from the property tax equivalent to 165 million. krones. The overall impact of proposals in this position will subsequently increase income from property taxes by 35 million. crowns in relation to the current situation, taken into account in the most recent judgments.’;» The majority provided that, with the new property tax rules for power plants and an assumed power price of 16,5 ø/kWh, the revenues of municipalities would be approximately. Seven hundred and sixty million. kr. However, current low electricity prices have led to a marked lower level of revenue. The Ministry estimates in the bill that property taxes from power plants with the new rules will apply approx. 625 million. 2001 kr. I agree with the department that the income loss of approx. 400 million. Compared to the revenue from the existing regulations of 1997, some municipalities will put a disproportionate burden on them. However, it must be seen in the context of the fact that these municipalities also have income from the natural resource tax. What we are doing on the Right is, at least, supporting proposals that ensure the municipalities a level of income from property taxes on power plants of about approx. $800 million. kr. It is slightly above the level of revenue envisaged by the Storting in 1996 on the basis of a force price of 16,5 ø/kWh. I think that is also worth taking into account in the debate that is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e952	Just a few words at the end of the debate. I think it is important to remember that hydropower is one of Norway’s most important natural resources, and that it is important that this resource is used in the most efficient way possible as it forms an important part of the basis for the well-being and employment of Norway. The objective of the 1996 electricity tax reform was, therefore, to arrive at a new tax system with characteristics that ensure socio-economic correct decisions in development and operation, while maintaining tax revenue overall. The new electricity tax regime has ensured a greater degree of fiscal non-discrimination between power companies and between power industries and other industrial activities. It was also decided to introduce new rules for the calculation of property taxes in the electricity tax reform, but the rules adopted have thus proved to result in a greater reduction in municipal income from property taxes than foreseen. Therefore, in line with the Storting assumptions, the Government has proposed amendments to the valuation rules for property taxes for power plants. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party and the Right, believes that the proposals submitted are in line with the majority's intention on the level of total revenues for power generation plants. In my view, the proposed changes will provide a good balance between the consideration of the property tax income of the municipalities and the consideration of having the market value of the power plants properly reflected. However, it is not to be avoided that the transition to more profitability-based valuation rules will result in redistribution effects between municipalities. However, the redistribution effects will be significantly less than within the rules originally adopted. I therefore assume that this is within acceptable limits. The amendments adopted today are important in order to put in place the new rules on property taxation for power plants, but some work remains to be done. In the context of the implementation of Section 8 there is also a need for new distribution rules for property taxes between municipalities where power plants cross the municipal boundaries. The Ministry is now working on the design of such rules, and I will make proposals as soon as possible. I also see the need to re-evaluate the valuation rules for transport facilities, and will come back with such an assessment as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e972	Taxes are often complicated, and property taxes on power plants are no exception. The rules for the charging of a power plant are laid down in the Equation Act and the Property Tax Act, and these laws must now be coordinated. But what's the conclusion in the new one is that the rate or property tax base should express the market value of the power plant, and I think that makes sense. Now it is not easy to determine the market value of a power plant, because although some power plants have been traded in recent years, turnover is low and turnover has been between publicly owned plants. That is why I agree with the Government that it is best to use the rules adopted in 1996. That is the starting point for the sales income relating to each power plant less operating costs and future replacement costs. What becomes an uncertainty for the powerhouses is that the valuation is to be made at spot market prices. This can cause greater fluctuations in income, but in a longer perspective, I think it's good for the municipalities. The introduction of a minimum tariff of SEK 0,50/kWh of production as a lower limit would mitigate the effect of any low spot price. What is unclear is the allocation rules between municipalities when the power plant extends over several municipalities. Now the Government announces that it will come up with new rules during the year and may propose new valuation rules for transfer facilities. I hope there will be a balancing effect between the municipalities in the proposal. The starting point of the survey is that the electricity municipalities will have an income of approx. One billion kroner. For the year 2000, it seems that the property tax of the municipalities could be approx. 600 million. NOK 400 million, which is a tax loss of 400 million. kr. This is due to very low prices of electricity and to the decision to take account of long-term contracts. So the new rules that we're now adopting are going to correct these distortions. The expected income is an amount with which the municipalities and LVK are satisfied. It may not be the power plant owners, but I think the owners think in the short term if the municipalities do not get their share of these natural resources, which, after all, are located in the power plants. Cooperation has marked the expansion of hydropower in Norway, and it has benefited the entire community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e987	It was mentioned by a speaker before today that this matter resembles a puzzle, and it does so to the greatest extent. There are a lot of different interests in this case, and it is important that we in Stortingen make a balance with these interests. What we do in the power plant tax also has a strong historical anchor, it extends from the beginning of the last century until now. If we look at the stakeholders we're dealing with here, it's obviously the power plant municipalities where the power plant is located, it's the county municipality, the state, the energy plants, the owners of the energy plants, the industrial companies and the usual consumer. And then you have to balance this to make it jump, and it's not a simple thing. But I believe that with this setting we have now come a good step further. In 1996, when we had this case up the last time, there were two things you took a little wrong – I would say not only a little, but a lot. We assumed an average spot market price of 16,5 cents, but after that, the average spot market price has been well below 11 cents. It is then clear that the loss of income especially for the power stations has grown. We guaranteed the municipalities of power at the time in 1996 that they would get to about the same level of income they had at the time. Today, we see that they do not. Then we have to rectify and stand by what we said in 1996, and I feel that we are doing with this setting. It was also the long-term industrial contracts that at the time shifted the picture a little bit for us. In my opinion, we have not failed the power municipalities now. We have stood by the commitments and the history behind the decisions we are making here today. But I want to remind you of two things in addition. The first is that we do not now clean up – and that also pointed out by the Minister of Finance – the lack of distribution of income in the powerhouses that we have today. This means that the turbine can stand in one municipality, and this municipality receives quite a large income, while the impact fields, which are scattered over many municipalities, do not participate in the same income as the municipality in which the turbine is located, get. We need to clean that up as soon as possible, otherwise this matter will just roll on. There is also another thing that the municipalities of power have to take over after the conversion of the power plant tax, namely that the property tax is not stable in the future, in line with, among other things. natural resource tax. The property tax will now vary for the power municipalities according to the market value. In that case, the advisers cannot sit and plan a full income from the property tax and say what it will be for two to three years. Here it is a valuation that will take place on the basis of the market value, and thus these revenues will also vary for the power plant municipalities. But here the natural resource tax is also fixed at the bottom and regulated by tax decisions in the Stortinget. However, the minimum useful life of operating assets in power plants is increased and the risk premium in the standard interest rate for property tax purposes is reduced from 4 pst. to 3 pst. Any power other than concession power is valued at spot market prices for property tax purposes. These things include: And the lower field of revenue makes us stabilize the situation here and increase revenue. But I also have to say, as I now approach the end of the post, that if the power prices increase – and we get hope – from 11.5 cents to up to 20 cents, I assume that the Storting would also notice it, and what will they do with the regulation of the tax system? We might also have to think about a valve at that end when we have a valve at the bottom end. Finally, I am pleased that we are not now changing the foundations of the new power plant tax adopted in 1996. Because, in my opinion, there is a very important issue, and that is that we have now also introduced rent on this production on land. We have ground rent in the petroleum tax on the Norwegian base that all the people own. Now ashore, too, for this renewable resource and its valuation are very important. Then the rent here will also benefit all the people, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1004	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1007	The last part of the post of the representative Tore Nordtun, attached to a safety valve in the system, is good reason to place great emphasis on it. The right hand and the forward hand are also in favour of a security valve in the system today in respect of a lower spot price for the power municipalities. It's actually fair with the evolution you've had. Then the representative Nordtun said that there must also be a safety valve on the other road. Imagine if the power prices are going to be 20 cents / kWh – the huge proceeds – what do you do? Of course, what you're doing is you're introducing a safety valve of 16.5 øre/kWh. If you get above the price that was the starting point for the conciliation in 1996-1997, other provisions should enter into force. And there is actually a proposal on this in the Chamber today from the Right and the Advance Party. Of course, if the representative Nordtun is to be taken seriously, the working party should vote for both a safety valve downwards and a safety valve upwards. I am therefore a little surprised that the Workers' Party has not notified this in the setting, but it is getting exciting with voting in this way. To vote for that, of course, is the only reasonable thing. Unfortunately, there have become a few ambiguities in this setting, and if I get permission, I think it is best that I now explain how the Right and Advance Party should relate to the setting that is now available. With regard to the proposal for a decision on page 19 of the vote, the Right and Advance Party have a separate proposal under I to Section 8 new fourth paragraph. The two parties then vote in favour of the suspension until the second paragraph of Section 18-5. First of all, the two parties will vote against the new wording in the second paragraph, because we want to keep the current provision. Subsidiary, we will vote in favour of the second paragraph, which is the committee's setting, with the change that I presented instead, that 'first' is replaced by 'last'. The rest vote in favour of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1018	The President hopes that he has received the points that the representative Mr. Børge Brende has now made. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 578]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1028	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1034	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative proposals to equalise listed and unlisted options with regard to tax treatment.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in the taxation of options in employment so that the benefit of share options granted is calculated in exercise. However, the possibility of postponing the tax on the shares is granted for sale.» Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, says: ‘The decrease asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in the taxation of options so that the benefit of the option is calculated proportionately over the period it builds up. This means that employers’ taxes and taxes are calculated as if the benefit of the option were paid evenly over the period of the option and not only during the year of the option’. Proposal No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government is asking for a new issue to be addressed by the Government on options in employment, where social and business conditions are highlighted.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure. Siv Jensen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1069	Only a brief explanation of vote on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right. We choose to vote in favour of the whole setting, but we show in the context of our proposals that will be sent to Stortinget, as we want to go further. But we believe that this is a step in the right direction and will therefore vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1160	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1168	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1176	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1186	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1223	There is a different proposal from the Progress Party and the Right: «In the Law of 6 June 1975 No. 29 on taxes on ownership of municipalities are amended as follows:§ 8 new fourth paragraph is replaced by the following:The value of the installations referred to in the tax law § 18-5 first paragraph shall not be lower than NOK 0.50/kWh and not right than NOK 1.50/kWh on the basis of the natural resource tax base of the installation as seen by the equation the year before the tax year.» [[property tax Elva]] [[tariff]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1311	The President noted that the proposal for a decision of the Bureau was corrected by saying in the second line, ‘the first five years’, ‘the last five years’. For the first sentence of the second subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal by Britt Hildeng, Odd Roger Enoksen and Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party: ‘Law of 26 March 1999 No 14 on taxes on wealth and income [[tax laws]] The President will alternately vote between the vote and the motion. - Børge Burne for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1325	When the President proposes alternative voting here, I will only, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, stress that what is in the second paragraph is our subsidiary position. Our primary position is that we would have voted against this term. But that's fine. I just wanted to make it clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1330	The President thanked this attendance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1377	It is voted over the title of the laws and the laws as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1385	Law decisions will be sent to Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-08-lower.ana.ud345e1394	There is no record.
