ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e68	I would like to refer to the discussion in Odelstingen on this matter and the views of the Progress Party there. Therefore, on behalf of the Party here in Lamentations, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note of the layering:second paragraph of Section 3-1 and the first sentence of the fourth paragraph of Section 3-1 are assumed to be deleted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e82	Vidar Kleppe, on behalf of the Progress Party, has put forward the proposal he himself has referred to. Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e92	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e104	I would like to refer to the extensive discussion that took place in Odelstingen on the pharmacy law and its premises. The Progress Party had a number of views both in terms of legislation and legislation in this area, which I do not see fit to re-examine here. However, I would like to make two proposals – one on behalf of the Progress Party and one on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. I would first like to refer to the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which reads as follows: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: § 1-3(f) is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Post-order relay’ means the point of sale and manufacture of medicinal products to end-users which are not physically available to the public and which may send medicinal products, after written or verbal ordering according to the prescription submitted, to end-users in postal calls; points (f), (g), (h), (j), (k) and (l) of the proposal for a bill shall be g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) respectively). ‘... § 3-4, first sentence of the first paragraph is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘In addition to the main pharmacy, authorisation may be granted for the operation of several branch pharmacy and post-order pharmacy, each of which shall be under the local management of a pharmacist authorised in accordance with Sections 4 to 2, if the pharmacist proves that:’;» § 3-4, fourth paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may lay down rules on the content and scope of mail order relays.’ § 2-8, first paragraph, point (e) is presumed to be deleted.» Furthermore, I refer to the common views of the Progress Party and the Right in this matter when it was up in Odelstinget, and I address the following proposals on behalf of the two parties: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Note of the legislation: the first paragraph of Section 1-5 is assumed to be replaced by the following: «Apothek shall designate itself externally by the word pharmacy. Hospital pharmacy may be regarded as an outpatient hospital pharmacy.» Paragraph 2-2, first paragraph, point (a) is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Applicant must demonstrate good conduct by means of a police certificate. If the applicant is a legal person, the credit claim relates to the Executive Director of the undertaking. For partnerships without a board, the requirement applies to all members of the company."Section 2-5, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Concession for hospital pharmacy may also be granted to a private applicant who complies with the requirements of § 2-2 cf. § 2-3.»§ 2-6 is assumed to be replaced by the following: «§ 2-6 Municipal consultation, etc. The municipality may address the question of the establishment of pharmacies with the department whose pharmacies are not covered by the needs of the municipality.’» Paragraph 2-7(a) second sentence is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Permit to have a medical sale may be revoked with a notice of 6 months’ notice.’ Section 6-1, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The pharmacy has the right to supply goods subject to negotiation and to provide the services resulting from the obligation to negotiate, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, regulation or administrative action. The pharmacy may also supply and provide other goods and services if it is naturally and appropriately compatible with the sale of negotiable products by the pharmacy.» Paragraph 6-7, second paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The Ministry may provide detailed guidelines for the sale of medicinal products which may be supplied without a prescription outside of a pharmacy. In the case of the supply of such non-pharmacetic medicinal products, the same conditions as those for pharmacopoeias referred to in the first subparagraph shall apply.’;» Paragraph 10-1, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: «Love. 2 and 3 shall enter into force on 1 July 2000. Other chapters of the Law will come into force from the time the King decides. The King may decide that the individual provisions of the Law shall enter into force at different times.’.» § 2-2, third paragraph and Paragraph 5-1, second paragraph, second sentence, is assumed to be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e197	Vidar Kleppe has put forward the proposals he has now referred to, one on behalf of the Progress Party and one on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e200	I also refer to the debate in Odelstinget and promote the following proposals on behalf of the Right: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: 1st@item: inlistbox Paragraphs 1-3(b), (c) and (f) are assumed to be replaced by the following: «(b) main pharmacy» means the pharmacy in which the professionally responsible is the local management where he is also professionally responsible for branch pharmacy. (c) "branch pharmacy" shall mean a pharmacy under the local management of a pharmacist, but under the same pharmacy concession as a main pharmacy. f) pharmacies: professionally responsible for the operation of pharmacies in accordance with § 3-1.» 2nd@item: inlistbox § 1-4 is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Sections 1 to 4 Concession requirements In order to own a pharmacy, official authorization in the form of a concession to ownership of the pharmacy is required after cap. 2.’» 3rd@item: inlistbox Paragraph 2-3, first paragraph, point (a) is assumed to be replaced by the following: «The applicant has the right of recourse to medicinal products, is an industrial manufacturer of medicinal products or is associated with such manufacturers or undertakings which are ill-treated.» 4th@item: inlistbox § 2-13, second paragraph, point (e) is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘e) in the case of termination of pharmacies, where justified by unfair operating conditions.’;» 5th@item: inlistbox Cape. 3 §§ 3-1 to 3-7 is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘Chap. 3 Professionally responsible for the operation of the pharmacy In the case of a pharmacy, a person who fulfils the following requirements shall be professionally responsible for operating: [[pharmacies]] (a) He/she has a candidate for a Norwegian examination. pharm or equivalent university education from the EEA territory or approved by the Department.b) He/she has at least two years of pharmaceutical practice after examination.c) He/she has official authorization as a pharmacist.d) He/she has good repute according to a police certificate.e) He/she shall be the Executive Director of the pharmacy.f) He/she shall not be unfit to operate a pharmacy. The same person may not be responsible for the operation of more than one pharmacy at the same time. § 3-2 Professional liability for branch pharmacy In addition to the operation of the main pharmacy, an authorisation may be granted for the operation of up to three branch pharmacy units, each of which is to be under the local management of a pharmacist approved in accordance with § 4-2, if the professionally responsible in accordance with § 3-1 proves that:a) Persons with qualifications referred to in the first paragraph of Section 3-1 are not eligible to be employed as pharmacies for reasons which cannot be charged to the professionally responsible for the operation of pharmacies. In exceptional cases, this requirement may be waived. The requirements set out in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph shall not apply if the pharmacy is operating at the time of application as a branch pharmacy with an authorised pharmacist. In this case, the authorisation should be limited to the duration of the work of the pharmacist. The professional responsible for the operation of pharmacies may also be authorised to operate the sale of medicinal products, if such sale follows the pharmacy concession, and may be made in accordance with § 7-1. § 3-3 The relationship between the pharmacist and the professionally responsible for the operation of the pharmacy The pharmacist must ensure that the establishment meets at all times the professional requirements of the pharmacy resulting from the law, regulation, decision and good pharmacies and manufacturing practice. The pharmacist shall comply with the pharmacist's policy and instructions in his day-to-day management of the pharmacy as far as the professional requirements applicable to the establishment do not preclude it.Cases of an unusual nature or of great importance to his business shall be brought before the pharmacist for a decision, unless the matter cannot be brought before the pharmacist or the customer without significant inconvenience. Cases concerning the recruitment, dismissal, suspension, dismissal and transfer of the pharmacist's staff shall always be decided by the pharmacist upon appointment by the professional responsible for the operation of the pharmacy, unless the decision-making authority has been fully attached to the professional responsible in such cases. [[pharmacies]] § 3-4 Professional responsibility for operation in the event of prolonged absence In the event of sickness, leave and other temporary absences exceeding 3 months, the pharmacist shall ensure that the day-to-day management of the establishment is entrusted to a pharmacist authorised under § 4-2. § 3-5 Acceptance of professional responsibility for the operation of pharmacy At the age of 70, death, dismissal and dismissal of pharmacists, their rights and obligations may be transferred for a period of up to 6 months to another person who fulfils the requirements of Sections 4 to 2 and who has been employed in the pharmacy for at least one year. § 3-6 Directives on the introduction of new professionally responsible persons The supervisory authority may instruct the pharmacist to establish a new professional person responsible for pharmacy: (a) failure to report obligations imposed on the pharmacist by law, regulation or decision(s) (b) failure to provide for under-supervisory involvement, as provided for. § 8-2(c) irresponsible personal exercise of pharmacies rights and obligations. If the relationship concerns only branch pharmacy, drug sale or manufacturing authorization, it may be ordered that pharmacies may no longer be professionally responsible for that part of the business. § 3-7 Regulations The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for the completion and implementation of the rules laid down in this Chapter.» 6th@item: inlistbox Section 4-1, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘The pharmaceutical staff of the pharmacy are the staff with examinations referred to in the first paragraph of Section 3-1, Norwegian medical training or other pharmaceutical training approved by the Ministry.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e359	Sonja Irene Sjøli, on behalf of the Right, made the proposal she herself referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will first vote on the proposal by the Right, tabled by the representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli, then on the proposal by the Progress Party and finally on the joint motion by the Progress Party and the Right, both put forward by the representative of Mr Vidar Kleppe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e379	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e391	On behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, I would like to refer to the discussion in Odelstinget on this important matter and the views we had there, and see it as necessary to make the following proposals on behalf of the two parties: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lamentations note: it is recommended that Odelstinget should submit the proposal.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e403	Vidar Kleppe, on behalf of the Party for Progress, has put forward the proposal he himself has referred to. Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e413	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-11-upper.ana.ud2064e425	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
