ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e42	In 1996, there was a clean-up of gross wages and salaries, and the determination of wages and salaries was delegated — so-called — to a separate payroll committee. Various compensations were also included in the normal pay for the down payment. SV disagreed at the time that you had to set up your own payroll committee, but it is not the case here today. In any case, the Stortningen is responsible for what pay and working conditions and pension schemes apply to grossing-up representatives. What we have for treatment today is the salary increase for next year. The Wage Committee has proposed a salary increase of SEK 50 000 for the Wage Representatives. Nothing was proposed last year. Much more has been proposed for the Councils of State and for the Prime Minister. This increase in wages can definitely be discussed, but the advantage of it is that it is neat and clean what the depositors actually serve. It appears from the decision and everyone may intervene in it. What is not tidy is the pension scheme that the depositors have. It was also a theme in 1996 when the new scheme was adopted, and at the time, everyone could see the unreasonable increase in gross pensions resulting from the clean-up carried out. In 1996, the down payment was NOK 195 000, today it is over NOK 320 000. In particular, there are two factors that make this pension scheme particularly and unfairly good. One is that there is a 12-year pay-as-you-go pension, while most others have a 40-year pay-as-you-go period. The second is that it's calculated to be 66 pst. of the gross wages and salaries fixed at all times. Most of the others have pensions related to the regulation of the basic amount of social security. There are many people who have pointed out that the basic amount is under-regulated by the majority of the population over the course of many years. However, it is also reasonable for some to react to the fact that it does not affect our own pensions, because we bigotry representatives have special arrangements. In 1996, when the new pay regime for gross domestic product representatives was under consideration, the injustices that arose were seen. The Presidency asked for authority to set up a sample to look at this. That sample has not been reduced. The SV Group has addressed the Presidency on several occasions on this matter, by March 1999 at the latest. It was also the subject of a group leader meeting in April 1999 which decided to make administrative comparisons between the pension conditions of wholesalers in Norway and those common in other countries. But it's been a year and a half. It is important that they have arrangements that are seen as reasonable and fair to most people. I believe that there was a reasonable consensus in 1996 that the pension scheme that the depositors have is not fair and fair. And it's not fair for big business representatives to compare with what's usual for top executives in the business world. We are elected and elected to trust, we are also responsible for determining what are other people's pensions, and therefore our own pension scheme must tolerate the light of day. It should simply be a decent system that makes the voters confident that we take into account when we determine the pension of others and do not have special arrangements for ourselves. I would like to know what the Presidency thinks that we should do with this matter further, and take up proposal No. 1, which has been distributed in places, which is a proposal for a decision that goes in a clear direction, namely that the Stortinget asks the Presidency to take the necessary initiatives to amend the pension schemes of the grubbing-up representatives, the state councils and the Supreme Court so that they are more consistent with common pension rules, inter alia. in such a way that annual regulation of the pension follows the basic amount of social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e63	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e66	The Presidency has presented to Stortinget the position that is matter No. 1 on today's map, a case which contains a proposal to increase the salaries of the aggregate representatives. What is the basis for this is what the Storting has decided in the past, namely to have a payroll commission, and the Stortinge has henceforth been in line with what has come from the Wage and Employment Commission. Last year, there was no recommendation from the Wage Commission to raise the salaries of the Wage Representatives. This year, a proposal has been put forward, which is the proposal that is now under discussion in the Grand Duchy. And that's what the Presidency has brought before the Storting: the issue of salary increases. I am not going to go into any kind of polemics with the SV parliamentary leader, because the majority of the contributions to the representative Halvorsen were more linked to the pension schemes than to the salary itself, although these are clearly linked. The representative Halvorsen has then pointed out in his statement the enquiry that, through SV's proposal, goes to the Presidency. It is also right, as the representative Halvorsen said, that there was a meeting on 15 April 1999 in the office of the Grand President where the parliamentary leaders were present. And the main content of that meeting was that there was a broad consensus not to now recommend the appointment of a selection to investigate the need for changes to the law on the pension scheme for large-scale representatives, in accordance with the mandate given to the Presidency in the above-mentioned decision, which was therefore the basis. What has happened then is that the administration has been asked to assess the real value of the current default pension in relation to the past, and – as was also said – in relation to the arrangements in the other Nordic countries. And so it's currently in the presidency. In my opinion, how Stortinget wants to deal with a proposal relating to pension schemes is not my concern to respond to now. In that case, the parliamentary leaders will be instructed to do so. I am promoting the views behind the attitude about the change in the salary of the depositors, and as far as I could understand the representative Halvorsen, the wage increase itself was not the most difficult thing to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e79	In particular, with regard to the working conditions of the EEAS representatives, including pay and pension conditions, there are almost as many views as representatives of the EEAS, I should think. There are also clearly differing views regarding pay systems, including for government and the Supreme Court. It is one of the things that has always been difficult. There are many stories about discussions about the payroll conditions of depositors. I was told one when I came here over 20 years ago. I don't know if it's true, but it's illustrative, so I allow myself to reproduce it. And I immediately tell Johan J. Jakobsen that I'm not sure if it's true. But it must have been claimed that a long, long time ago it was once the Bond Party was a little poor, and they promoted in the context of pay terms the proposal to reduce the salary of depositors from 3,000 to 2,000 spectrals. That proposal was unanimously adopted. After the meeting, one of the representatives of the Bond Party began to cry in despair, and another from another party asked, "What's wrong?" The person said: I can't afford it, I have expenses, I have family, I have interest, I have debt – I can't deal with just 2,000 specialties. Then the other asked, ‘ But why did you propose it? ’ The answer was: It was not meant to be adopted! In other words, if you want to become popular with the population when there is generally little confidence in politicians, you always have one of the easiest ways to do it, just by thinking that you shouldn't have decent working conditions. And you can keep doing that. I think this is a difficult problem. I've been here quite a long time, and it's always been discussed. There have always been differing views, and therefore the Stortinge put down an independent commission that could record the Stortinge, so that it was not the Stortinge's own initiative. The meaning of those of us who were behind this, and it was most, was that even if the Storting formally decided on their own salaries, you should follow up that commission, let there be some independent who could stand free, and last year they looked at the system and said there should be no pay adjustments at all. It was respected. Now they have proposed 11 p.m., as far as I can see, over this two-year period. It might be something more than the average, I don't know, because it depends on which groups you want to compare with, but the size is not comparable to any group. There's a lot of talk about fair distribution and equality and reasonable conditions, and now there's probably some of my co-representatives who get a little mad at me, but that's what I tend to tolerate: the whole thing is probably the only place where there's equal pay for different work and different responsibilities. Obviously, there are different tasks in this house, whether you're a committee leader, a vice-chairman, a member of a group board, a group leader or a member of the presidency, or what you often refer to as a private representative in a committee. It is also clear that the importance of the work done, whether what is done, good, or if mistakes are made is much greater for those who have the important positions. The working time, the amount of work, the time of the day you can be called up and bothered and you are expected to be available are clearly different, while the working conditions – except perhaps secretarial services in the office – are the exact same. It's a system that you could have looked at, but that's the way it is. So it's a complicated area. Once we've reduced this Commission, I think it's natural that we follow up what the Commission is proposing. Those who really disagree with this system rather than possibly protest by voting against wage increases, which are too light, rather get to propose a new system for doing so. Now we have a system, and then I think we get to stick to it until someone possibly suggests a new and better one. Then Kristin Halvorsen has taken up a proposal from SV that relates to a completely different matter, namely the pension conditions, which, in a way – as Stortingen’s Vice President, Røsjorde, explained – are related to the pay terms and conditions. [[Hagen]] When part of the supplements you had was added to your salary, you can easily claim that the former depositors who had their pensions finally got what it was supposed to do. The size would settle in their own systems and give a real pay, instead – let's say – hidden supplements. It is the cleanup that has taken place and the resulting pension increases. Many would say that it was calculated that the Storting sooner or later would receive to do, and that this was something you had expected to do. But, of course, pension conditions can be discussed for the future. As you know, they cannot be given retroactive effect, but they can be discussed for the future. However, by means of a bench proposal to identify significant changes to the current pension – because that is what it is about, to take the initiative to change in line with the proposal – I think, however, is too drastic. It is too drastic to change reality by means of a bench proposal. You can look at the pension schemes, but I now want to remind you – and now I think of some special conditions – that there are actually some examples of large-scale representatives who have been here for 12–16 years having serious problems getting a job afterwards. There's a lot of people who think that being a big man's representative is something amazing, that when you've been here, and maybe you've been a member of the government, there's a sea of jobs ready. It doesn't, we're going to have to be honest with each other. That's a lot of destiny. When you have been away from your usual profession for 12 to 16 years, you do not have the same competence, you have lost knowledge and contact and have problems getting a job afterwards. Not everyone in Stortinget is a star, and it also has to be taken into account that you have to be safe for your family when you go out. So I don't want to be involved in making drastic changes to this based on a bench proposal. A selection has been set up to look at the broad-based working conditions of the representatives of big business, the Brørby Committee, in which all parties have representatives, and I would not find it unnatural whether the Presidency considered whether the Brörby Committee could also look at the pension conditions, especially after we received the assessment of the administration – as the leading president of the Stortinge was at home – of the real value of the large-scale representation pensions compared to the previous ones and compared to the other Nordic countries. So based on the possibility that the Brøbby Committee can look at this, we recommend the Progress Party Group to vote against the SV proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e105	The starting point for this discussion is Case No. 1 on the agenda today, which is a proposal for wage regulation for large-scale representatives and members of the government. And behind the proposal that is on the table, which is a recommendation from the Presidency, is a recommendation from the payroll commission that the Storting itself has set up. There could always be a basis for discussing salary increases for wholesalers, and there will probably be a discussion in this regulation as well. I'm not going to make any long posts, I'm just going to show that the salary position that depositors get if the proposal of the Presidency is adopted gives a salary increase for depositors who are in the middle of what is the wage development of an average industrial worker, and the wage development of heads of state. Around the middle of which there is an increase in the salary of large-scale representatives in this proposal, and the Labour Party Group has no specific comments on it. Of course, I fully agree with what has been said in the past from this pulpit, both by Kristin Halvorsen and by Carl I. Hagen, that in any case a payroll commission is such that it is the Stortinget itself who is responsible for the salary we have fixed, and also for what we are going to determine today. There's no doubt about it. So to the proposal put forward by Kristin Halvorsen, which is related to pension issues. It is a fact that the Storting has made a similar decision as the one put on the Storting Table today, and it is natural to think that the decision that has already been taken forms the basis for assessing the pension issue. It is not natural, as I see it, that the Storting again makes a similar decision, but that, on the other hand, we, as also the representative Hagen was involved, ask the Presidency that the selection that is already working to look at the overall working conditions of the large-scale representatives – the so-called Brørby Committee – also have the opportunity to look at issues related to pension conditions. In most other contexts, pension conditions are considered to be part of the total working conditions. I guess it's the same for big business representatives. If this proposal is to be addressed to voting, I would advise my group not to vote in favour of the proposal, but would point out that the Stortinget has made a somewhat similar decision, and that it is therefore natural that this decision be handled by the Brørby Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e118	I just have a few short notes. Most of it has been said about the matter that we now have to deal with. It is true, as it has been pointed out – and that is an advantage, I would say – that over the last few years we have had an external body to look at the salaries of the big business representatives, state councils and prime minister. In this way, the pay question is raised from the Storting in terms of preparation, but the decision itself is, of course, with us in Stortinget. But it was a desire to get a sample that would look into the pay conditions of these groups in an unwarranted way. That is what we have been given, and it is in the light of the fact that the Presidency is now making proposals in substance. 1st@item: inlistbox I would, of course, recommend the Christian People's Party Group to support the setting at this point. With regard to the proposal relating to pensions that the representative Kristin Halvorsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, is now promoting, the Christian People's Party also has the view that there is a basis for letting this be a question that goes over to the Brörby Committee, so that they can look at this matter in their total work. I therefore agree with the thoughts expressed by Carl I. Hagen and the Labour Party representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e125	Of course, I urge the Right Group to support the position in line with what our representative in the Presidency has also done. There may be a lot of perceptions about the development of wage levels between the accumulation, government and the Supreme Court. There, quite significant differences have developed that were not there originally. It's probably not time to do anything about it now. We've chosen to follow a payroll commission. On the other hand, I understand that the sample set up to look at the overall working conditions of the representatives also includes in their mandate the possibility of looking at the way they reward large-scale representatives. I understand, among other things: that there are significant differences in relation to our neighbouring countries. Our neighbouring countries do not fully follow the principle that there should be equal pay for different jobs, so here there are probably opportunities to assess alternatives. With regard to the proposal of the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, I would just like to say to the proposal that I consider it to be a populist occupational accident. It has a reason that I don't seem to belong anywhere, with a sort of jamming with the profit points of popular fear. This is an occupational pension scheme, not an alternative to social security. And occupational pension schemes have also, on every occasion, sought to vote against, so some particular context here is not. I have no objection that the Brørby Committee also looks at this issue, but I do not think that this is an urgent need for change. Comparing the working and pension conditions of the large-scale representatives with normal work is quite on the side. Moreover, in professional life, a kind of career and a kind of departure from a career can be reasonably planned. I believe that it is currently very clear when you read about the time of nomination meetings around the country, that precisely career planning is not the most typical of the working conditions of big business representatives. You just get to admit that, and then you have to say it the way it is. And if you sometimes wonder what to say, you can actually do it, so say it as it is. Then there's probably a lot of perceptions among the people most about the quality of the work done. People regularly have an opportunity to do something about it, and they do something about it. It's no longer an eternal career to sit in this house, and that's, of course, the way it should be. However, work on goals and very unprepared departures is actually compensated for in the professional life, even through occupational pension schemes or commonly called parachutes in different variants. I am not in charge of this, but I am just pointing out that there is a reason why the pension schemes for wholesalers should have certain special facilities. I understood it so that the representative Kristin Halvorsen on the radio today thought that this would not affect her former party leader, Hanna Kvanmo. It sounds sweet, because as Kristin Halvorsen, I also have a considerable sense of man Hanna Kvanmo, and I think many in Norway have it. But it is actually the generation that has received the greatest promise – I see it nodded, but it was not nodded on radio today. What happened was that we adjusted our salary. As was said earlier – it was the representative Hagen who said the most striking thing – it became ‘a real wage’ rather than some supplements that were pay-like, de facto wages, but did not enter the pension basis. So wages were adjusted, which led to a much higher pension base, even for those who had left. This made the representative Hanna Kvanmo, in my personal opinion, very deserving, get his pension adjusted. I think it's a good thing you can admit that it's like this, and I don't have any strong, negative reactions to it. If the Brørby committee wants to look at this question, I'm absolutely sure it's going well. I appeal on this background to the Right Group to vote against the proposal by Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e140	First, to the option that lies ahead of the Presidency. There the Central Party will support what our member has been in the presidency; we think it is tidy to follow up what has been done. The idea with this commission was that we should get an assessment that we would later decide on in Stortinget. I don't see that there have been any moments here that will make us deviate from it. So to the proposal from Kristin Halvorsen. Røss soils have done well, as I understand him, a matter in the Presidency – a task given to the administration to determine the real value of the current default pension and the relationship with schemes in other Nordic countries, for assessment at a later stage. If one has come so far with this statement that it can be traced back to its second mandate, we from the Centre Party will agree to it. It'll get the presidency to evaluate. In any case, I understand that an initiative has already been taken in relation to the pension scheme and an assessment of it. I would like, on this basis, the Center Party's group to vote against the proposal from Kristin Halvorsen. And let me add: I share my view of Per-Cristian Foss when it relates to the basic amount of the population. After all, it would have been more natural to see a change in the state's pension plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e151	At the time of the change in the remuneration of the gross domestic product’s representatives in 1996, SV was involved in bringing the other allowances that were added to the remuneration into the usual wage base, i.e. the main operation whereby the basis for the calculation of pensions for depositors was as it was. At that time, the whole Storting saw that there had been an increase in the grossing-up pension that could be unreasonable. It is noted by the Presidency that the ageing pension is increasing significantly, and that it is necessary to look at this in more detail. So it's not only SV who have seen that this was an unreasonable increase in the pension as a result of a clean-up job compared to the gross wages. If the representative Halvorsen had wanted to be a crude populist in this case, I could have plagued the Stortinget and the Presidency many times with suggestions to change this. I have calmly taken it up with the Presidency for one reason, and that is that SV believes that there should be reasonable and decent salary and pension conditions for large-scale representatives. We're trusted, we're doing a job on behalf of people. That means that the arrangements we have are to withstand the light of day. We regard the pension scheme as unreasonably good in the two areas we have mentioned, and it would have been in the Big City's common interest to do something about it. It's been over a year and a half since this was taken up with the presidency last. It's also been over a year and a half since it was said that you should start investigating what other reasonable levels of society were. I think we've been extremely patient. The role of the Advance Party in this matter seems quite pathetic to me – absolutely and perfectly pathetic! I think it is very embarrassing that the Progress Party has not been involved in this – those who are always just out to put the big business representatives in as bad a light as possible and fire under political contempt as well as possible. Why in the world hasn't the Progress Party gone into the bust to clean up this case? On the contrary, they are now hiding behind a large number that are not eager to clean up this. We have been patient with a system that has been unreasonable for four years. It is reasonable that the Storting should be tightened up, so that something is done about this matter. Carl I. Hagen can only be ashamed. We have to do it, because this is about the common trust people have in politicians doing a decent job. It is good and good if the Brørby Committee now that the matter has been raised again, can get an additional mandate to look at this, but I think – and SV thinks – that we should be clearly informed in what direction this should go. That's why we're not satisfied with saying that the Presidency should give an additional mandate. It should simply be that the Storting now gave a clear message that this should be cleaned up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e164	In the case of pension schemes, which have been devoted the most time in this debate, the representative Halvorsen has referred to the Inn. S No 282 for 1995-96, where the pension scheme is mentioned together with the new pay scheme. I think it might be useful to refer to something more of what the Presidency said at the time, than what the representative Halvorsen did. That's what it says. ‘Presidencies refer to the fact that pension benefits have also lost some of their real value, in line with the decrease in real wages and salaries of their representatives. On the other hand, the Presidency points out that in the general plans there are certain restrictions on the level of benefits.» It was against this background that the Presidency was given an authority to look at the arrangements. Then, of course, as the representative of the Halvorsen points out, you can accuse the Presidency of having gone late in this process. But during this process there have been meetings with the parliamentary leaders, and this has resulted in a protocol, which I referred to earlier. We also await the comparison with the pension schemes in the other Nordic countries. The fact that we can now perhaps find a solution by looking at something broader about the relationship of the big business representatives with the Brøbby Committee should be an acceptable way of doing this. I reject the fact that you have not taken this inwards. This has also been discussed with the parliamentary leaders, and that is where we are now. That matter today is therefore a proposal for an increase in wages, and I have seen it there that it has no objection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e177	Kristin Halvorsen said I should be ashamed. I want to say that for once I am relatively proud. There have been quite a number of attacks against the Progress Party and I where it has been said that we are among the outermost populists that exist in Norwegian policy. I've always denied it. Kristin Halvorsen came up with a rule that I should have tried to create contempt for my co-representatives and big business representatives. I have never done that when we talk about the representatives like people, colleagues and co-representatives. I have said that I deeply disagree with many of my colleagues politically and have said that in many areas they stand for hopeless positions and views. I have also allowed myself to say, outside this hall, that they ‘do not understand’ how to organise the health care system. But it doesn't apply to my co-representatives like people, who have family, who have expenses, and who are going to live by being a magnificent representative. There's a pretty big difference. I've never tried to become popular with the kind of things that Kristin Halvorsen says. I am quite proud that I am able to resist the light-hearted pressure that Kristin Halvorsen is unable to resist, namely trying to become popular with the population in terms of working conditions, pay terms and pension conditions for large-scale representatives. We should perhaps introduce that system – it could actually have something in mind if we are to have some honesty – that the voting in this case is sent to the accounting office. Wage representatives who vote against the salary increase do not receive a salary increase. Because it can't be that they have to have both bags and bags, both accept the increase in wages and become popular with the population. If they are to become popular with the population, the counter-performance is that they refrain from the increase in wages, because it gets to be way on double standards! I think you might want to consider sending a copy to the accounting office and saying, "They should have an increase in pay, they should not have an increase in pay." It would have been reasonable and real. I'm quite proud that I can resist being on this easy edge to make myself popular. When it comes to the salary level, as I said instead, I belong to those who went down in pay when we got to the Stortinget. I think with relatively great boldness I could say that if I hadn't had this job as a publicist and been here, I think I had managed to make as much money in business – and perhaps considerably more – as some capacity. So the fact that we're going to go around and have a bad conscience for having decent working conditions, I'm not in. I leave it to such populists as Kristin Halvorsen and any others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e186	Kristin Halvorsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e189	This is starting to be a pretty fun round. I can assure the representative Hagen that the proposal for the review of pension schemes is very serious. It's simply because we think they're unreasonable compared to the fact that it's the National Assembly that decides other people's pensions. This is not a question of populist freedom of choice, it is simply a matter of being decent and explainable, and of respecting the arrangements of the staging representatives. This is very serious. It is possible that I worry a little too little about my age, but I expect that the SV's group will be able to keep a decent level of pensions in general in society, so it won't be scary and scary to have to go off as a big-time representative at some point in time. The progress party gets to believe exactly what they want. This is not a matter of becoming popular in the wholesale restaurant, but it is a serious matter from SV's side, which we have actually been concerned about for four years, and which Stortinget so was unreasonable when it was cleaned up in 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e212	We are all currently concerned about having more people working in Norway. The shortage of labour is currently one of our biggest economic problems. Another economic problem is that social expenditure and expenditure are increasing. There are, of course, several ways to address this issue. For the right, it has been important to highlight many of the details that, in total, could provide better access to labour, both to facilitate labour immigration and, not least, to ensure the mobilisation of the labour resources we actually have, but which, due to different system barriers, are not used. This interpellation actually addresses both the question of limiting growing public labour costs and mobilising the labour reserve we have in the country, not through general legislative and regulatory changes, as is very often the case elsewhere, but by focusing on a group that currently has problems in the labour market, and how much indicates that the knowledge of the problems is too small in the apparatus that is primarily set to help them. The problems are outlined in the interpellation text. It's estimated that between 20 and 30 pst. Among the adult population in Norway, read and write problems occur. Many are in the labour market, but a number of them are also among the unemployed, in fact as many as two unemployed young people have problems reading and writing, according to the Workers' Information Association. At the same time, we know that in many other groups, as we usually perceive as vulnerable in our society, there is once again a large concentration of people with difficulty in reading and writing. We know that almost half of the prisoners in prison have read and write difficulties, and we know that many of the long-term social clients have fallen out of the usual education system and have not received proper education because of read and write difficulties. So it's a good social economy, but not least a good policy to ensure that everyone can have a humane life in our society, to do something about the problem of reading and writing problems, and to do something in relation to adults. Too often, the question is concentrated on: what really happened at school? Why did they fall outside, and what was wrong then? This is known to be an attempt to address through the education system. But once that happens, it can't mean that you shouldn't stop and say, "What can we do today, and how can we do it better?" Why is Aetat especially related to what I've taken up in this interview? Because the labour market seat is the establishment that meets many of these primarily when they are young. It is the agency that gets many of the young people who have fallen out of school and who are going to take relief measures to get them back into work. It is an establishment which nevertheless proves to have frightening little knowledge relating to the problem of reading and writing problems themselves, because the competence is primarily found within educational institutions, not within the institutions working with adult unemployed with problems. There are also differences of competence and professional disputes concerning definitions and categorisation and the offers to be made. When I've asked questions in the interpellation about what Aetat should do, if Aetat shouldn't have better competence, and when I think Aetat should have a special role in this, it's because Aetat is first and foremost the establishment that comes into contact with many of those who have fallen out of school, and many of those who have long-term problems. If Aetat then continually recommends schemes that do not address the main problem, namely the writing and reading difficulties, but that address all the other related problems in order to get them to work in the short term, it means that one will repeatedly meet the same ones again in the unemployment queue in the social offices, because they have not been mobilised into the usual workforce. Much of my experience with this comes from contact with users who have had problems. Of course, it doesn't give us the most balanced picture, but it gives us a clear indication of some of the problems that exist in Aetat related to read and write problems. One of the problems is the question of getting an offer at all. In many of the employment guidance offices, there is widespread use of so-called WAIS tests, which test IQ, and which have asked questions about whether read and write problems are well enough. These tests are used on a case-by-case basis to determine whether a person should go on action or whether he should be recommended for disability. I've seen examples of people who aren't necessarily some hidden Albert Einstein, but who could certainly make it in the labour market according to those who work with reading and writing problems, who, after such testing, have been recommended to the guidance offices of the labour market parliament. Concluding the recommendation to immature persons early in the 20s based on such a test must be anti-bombproof – and it is not these tests. Recommending people who could basically do a job if they had done something about reading and writing problems, living the rest of their lives on the public expenditure side, with the problems and the lack of self-respect that would mean for many of them, must be completely wrong policy. Therefore, the use of this type of testing should be considered. What about the offers that are given to many people with difficulty in reading and writing? To a large extent, these are provided in the form of a combination of learning to help with dyslexia – the problems of reading and writing – and practical work. The use of individual learning aimed at dyslexia is used to a much lesser extent. The basis for this has, of course, been that you also wanted to do something with the school aversion that many of them have, who have experienced the whole of their previous schooling as a problem. On the other hand, many of these offers are still offered in a school situation, creating the same problems. They're also given very briefly. Many of the people who have read and write problems today and who repeatedly come into Aetat and other areas within the auxiliaries should be given a much longer term help to get out of the reading and writing problems. They are often not recommended, and the offers seem to be poorly evaluated. There is a need to establish knowledge in a broad field in the Aetat on which measures are most helpful, whether there is individual follow-up for the individual, or more general course for others, because read and write problems can be very different, some have easy, while others have basic, major problems. There might have to be a connection between the educational system and Aetat to get to this. But the important thing is to make sure that there will not be a professional or competence struggle about who should actually diagnose and have a monopoly on this. The starting point must be to identify measures that help the individual with the problems they face. I would like to say that I have encountered a special conflict in my home country related to an offer that Stortinget has explicitly said in the past would receive support, namely the so-called PedLog in Bergen, which has driven individualized measures for them with read and write problems, and has fallen out of the system as it is. The Municipal Committee has had a broad political commitment to ensure that this offer exists, because the users themselves have said it has helped them. Examples of people who do not have secondary education but who now start to study at higher education can be documented. The problem is that in Aetat there is no room within the system or the legislation to use it. Sometimes I think there has also been a performance in some fights both in relation to the relationship with the users who want this offer, and to the methodology that has been used. What I want is to create a broad range of options for adults with reading and writing difficulties, and perhaps also to establish a form of skills and evaluation system for all the measures that have been taken in the last five to ten years, to see what measures have actually given long-term effects, and to create a common understanding of what offers are appropriate to which clients, customers or users, depending on what kind of words they want to use. For example, what was done in connection with PedLog was that one offer was evaluated separately, while none of the other offers were evaluated so thoroughly. It is therefore not known whether the other offers were actually better or not. The results at individual level of users should be assessed, not if they agree with the methodology or approach of the individual measures. Let me conclude with the four things I think the Council of State might want to look into further work: The general competence of adult literacy needs to be improved in Aetat. A broader environment of competence needs to be established for the work of adults with read and write difficulties between Aetat and educational and research institutions. You have to go through the use of WAIS tests/IQ tests in relation to read and write difficulties and maybe stop using them. The different measures implemented should be reviewed with regard to the long-term impact on labour market connectivity for users and not just in relation to short-term dissemination rates. Maybe we can then create a basis for getting a better Aetat compared to some of the heaviest users and those who have the biggest problems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e260	Norway scores high internationally in terms of literacy. It shows the international study on adult literacy, SIALS, where Norway is designated the second best in 21 participating countries. But although we are good internationally, as the representative Erna Solberg says in his interpellation, there is a significant proportion of adults who have problems reading and writing in Norway today. The Norwegian interim report of SIALS shows that around 8 pst., which corresponds to around 220,000 Nordics, has literacy skills at the lowest level on a scale from 1 to 5. This means reading skills that are not sufficient to function satisfactorily in relation to the reading requirements of working life and social life. Furthermore, about 25 pst. reading skills corresponding to level 2. Many will function satisfactorily here, both in working life and in leisure life, but may have problems, for example, with changes in the workplace. The fact that so many adults have weak reading skills, I see it as serious. Today’s society increasingly demands efficiency, information gathering and processing. Most of us meet daily a flood of written information, both at work and in leisure, and to benefit from this requires satisfactory reading and writing skills. Therefore, people with reading and writing difficulties will have greater difficulty both in entering and staying in the workplace. The survey shows a close link between unemployment and literacy. The percentage of people with the worst reading skills was three to four times higher than that of those who were working. The representative mentions in his interview that, according to the AOF, every other youth has problems reading and writing. According to the information I have received, this is based on a Swedish study on youth unemployment. The results cannot be transmitted to Norway without further delay. In fact, in the SIALS survey, young people were the most effective in reading skills, while age groups over 45 had the biggest problems. Today, Norway has fortunately low unemployment among youth groups. Many of these are offered a combination of places of practice and schooling. But just since unemployment is so low among young people, there are probably special groups recruited for leave. One of the characteristics of these special groups may be difficulty in reading and writing. In these results, there are clear challenges for Aetat, who receive many job seekers with read and write problems. Often this group has low skills and low work experience and needs qualification and job training measures to improve their ability to get into work. I therefore fully agree with the representative of Solberg that through its use of labour market measures, Aetat has an important role to play in reading and writing difficulties in unemployed and disabled jobseekers. These are also issues that Aetate is aware of. The annual programme note from Aetat Labour Directorate to Aetat local provides clear signals that it will facilitate the detection of reading and writing difficulties as far as possible, and that appropriate guidance and qualification are provided where necessary. Aetat uses a wide range of measures in relation to both ordinary and disabled jobseekers. The main measure used in relation to people with difficulty in reading and writing is the AMO course. Occupational disabled persons with rights under Chapter 11 of the Social Security Code will also be able to pursue regular schooling for qualifications in employment. We have made an amendment to the regulation on reintroduction aid, including: in the light of the initiatives taken by the Municipal Committee of Storting, so that the possibility of financing courses for disabled persons is extended. This gives rise to people with difficulty in reading and writing and with rights over public rights to participate in specially organised courses. In order to improve the response to people with difficulty in reading and writing, it is important that Aetat improves its knowledge of the group. The Directorate-General for Labour has now informed all the departments of the ‘Dysnet’ website, which is a meeting place on the Internet for all those working with adult reading and writing problems and math problems. Here, people working in the field can find up-to-date information, exchange knowledge and experience, develop methods and materials. This network is one of the projects of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research in the Action Plan for the Disabled 1998-2001. In addition, all Aetat units have been informed about the launch of the ‘Tracked word’ project, which is an information and study programme for adults with difficulty reading and writing under the direction of Norwegian Remote Education. The Directorate co-financed the SIALS study together with the Department. In addition, in order to know more about the problem of reading and writing difficulties and unemployment, the Directorate of Labour will carry out a separate analysis of the comprehensive survey data. The material contains information about more than 5000 people between 16 and 65 years of age. Since reading and writing difficulties can not only be a major obstacle to obtaining or maintaining work, but can also contribute to problems related to the implementation of some labour market measures, it is important to monitor the level of reading and writing difficulties when they are discovered. The representative of Solberg asks the question of whether Aetat has sufficient competence in these assessments. It is important to note that the group of people with read and write problems is very complex. They will have different needs, and therefore often the means to solve these problems will be different. Often, reading and writing difficulties are an additional problem for other occupational disabilities. An additional challenge for Aetat is that reading and writing difficulties may be difficult to detect, as job seekers with such problems often try to hide them. The Directorate of Labour does not consider it appropriate to test all jobseekers for literacy skills. They therefore aim to identify such problems in the course of a qualification course, unless the persons themselves report these problems when looking for Aetat locally. I agree with the Directorate-General for Labour that testing everyone will be a poor use of resources. However, the ministry has recently sent a letter to the directorate asking them to make a proposal that can help to detect reading and writing difficulties at an earlier time. For the monitoring of the degree of reading and writing difficulties, Aetat is given local important assistance from the Aetat Employment Advisory Offices. The Employment Advisory Offices are part of Aetat’s second line service and are available in all counties. These help, among other things: Localised in the monitoring and advice of applicants with more extensive assistance needs, including people with difficulty in reading and writing. Here, people’s reading and writing difficulties are mapped as a preparation for qualification under the auspices of Aetat or any further reference. The representative of Solberg further asks in the interview whether the agency should ensure a wider evaluation and development of the offer for adults with difficulty in reading and writing. I agree with the representative that the offer to the group can be significantly improved with greater flexibility. However, Aetat cannot only ensure a good offer to jobseekers with difficulty in reading and writing. It is important that we have good partners in this area, in order to provide the best possible offer. Today, Aetat cooperates with a number of centres of expertise to provide people with difficulty in reading and writing. Such partners are municipal, adult, PP, Folkeuniversitet and labour market enterprises with special services. Furthermore, Aetat buys AMO courses where we depend on good price arrangements being offered. It is the development of these environments that provides the basis for the offers that Aetat can provide. And it's through collaboration with these that Aeta's offerings can be developed and improved. In particular, it is important to mention the role of school authorities in the work on reading and writing problems. Older people have often had weak or poor primary school because of poor literacy skills. I would like to mention that the right of all to primary education comes into force on 1 July 2002. Adults with poor reading and writing skills will then be offered primary school training. There are projects in progress to identify needs and scope, and I have been informed that the interest in municipalities towards implementation is high. Several measures in the reform of competences have also been largely turned against people with difficulty in reading and writing. These are incentives and measures for persons with difficulty in reading and writing who wish to exercise the right to secondary education. As the representative says in his interview, there is a significant proportion who have weak literacy skills in Norway. How each individual masters this skill is helping to determine how each adult can function, not only in job contexts, but also in an increasingly complex social and cultural context. Today, Aetat offers to people with reading and writing problems to improve their opportunities in the labour market. This is a complex group, where the needs and instruments could be different. I would like to stress the need for Aetat to continue its cooperation with environments with competence in the field and responsible for the further development of training provision, and these environments are not just public environments. I would like to clarify this again in the 2001 AETAT Labour Directorate's letter. An additional challenge for Aetat will be to detect reading and writing difficulties in the past, so that proper assistance can be provided. In this context, I would like to highlight the importance of greater transparency in the field of reading and writing problems. This will make it easier to provide proper and organised assistance to the group so that important labour resources can be mobilised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e312	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e315	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear, and it was also clear from the response of the Council of State, that there is a major focus on read and write problems, not least on the point of getting some new instruments related to the reform of competences, and that in the future the rights to receive primary and secondary education will also strengthen the possibilities of clearly individualised measures. But what I feel in some way may be missing is, first of all, to establish a clear evaluation of the long-term impact of the actions and projects that have been. It feels like there are many activities to show that you have activities, but the control of the depth effect or the long-term effects is not always as good. We have to have more competence in that. It could also provide the opportunity to see the types of instruments that work with some clients and which work with others. There may be a need to create a larger evaluation project beyond the more practical benefit of having a network exchange of current competences. The second piece is this that goes on the question of IQ tests, which is about those who have other disabilities, and which, as I said, are not necessarily Albert Einstein, but who on such tests score – as it says in some of these diagnostics – in the upper sheath of mentally retarded, but where the truth is that the reason they score there is their reading and writing problems, while they are really functional adults. It is simply necessary to review the use of these types of tests with the guidance and guidance offices of Aetat, because very serious professional weaknesses have been identified, not least in relation to the group of read and write difficulties. It is unsustainable that young people in their 20s are referred to disability for the rest of their lives because of a misdiagnosis or because it is believed that their mental or mental capacity is lower than it actually is. We can't actually let that happen in our society, where we want everyone to have a meaningful life, that everyone should be able to participate. These two things I think are important in terms of getting us a better basis to help those who might have the biggest problems. Exchanges of experience are good, it is good to have many different partners in place, but it is also necessary to ensure that research and evaluation skills are now built up as to what actions actually work here. And then you have to evaluate the projects that have been. There have, after all, been quite a number of projects aimed at reading and writing difficulties also in Aetat's case, and then it is not enough just to see if they have been communicated to work or not afterwards. It is also necessary to see whether the long-term effect is that they are in the job after two to three years, or whether they are back in the unemployment basket and statistics. It is the longer-term measures here that are likely to help best.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e324	Of course, it would be both reasonable and important to come into such a position as to be able to evaluate the measures in the long term. In this way, future measures can be more targeted, but this is not entirely unproblematic, because it means that a follow-up must be carried out even after the person has come into work. It is not always the case that he wants to have a continuing link with the labour market seat or others, nor the use of his personal data for research purposes, so that this is a very complex and complex challenge. But I agree that this should be absolutely desirable. It may be possible that we can deal with the data we already have in a way that enables us, through cooperation with research institutions, to become more specific on these evaluations. So I would say that of course it can be done and, of course, it is done wrong at the procedural stages of the labour market sentence. So it would be completely unlikely if it didn't happen. There may be errors of assessment, there may be things that cause you to draw wrong conclusions because you are unable or unable to check the information you receive, and you cannot put it together correctly so that you can make the ‘real diagnosis’ about which tool you need to put in place. I absolutely will not ignore the fact that such errors can occur, and we shall do everything we can to avoid such errors occurring. That is why, through these programmes, through the allocation, and also by adding to changes in regulations that allow us to have wider contact with other environments, we should help to qualify employees to make an increasingly better offer. But now don't let the simple mistakes that are made stand up as something that you're assuming is a result of an assessment of the entire floor, because I think that the floor as such is very concerned that this is a bet area that it's important to do something about. One is that we need labour, which the representative himself was in, but the other is all we can do to prevent exclusion from working life and society, everything we can do to include, both human and social will be of great value.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e333	I believe that we should not turn the problem of reading and writing difficulties into a discussion about who is right to help those who have problems. First, it is important to remember that those with such problems have had it for a long time, and they have not received enough help in an ordinary school system. At the LO centre in Stjørdal, therefore, they have learned that many of those with such problems do not feel at home in an ordinary school system, at least not until they have started up an individual scheme. AOF, the Joint Confederation and the Norwegian Chemical Industrial Workers' Association have committed themselves strongly, because there are many members who need help. Not so strange, as it turns out that three out of four people with reading and writing difficulties are men who, after short and poor school experience, are betting on selling their workforce instead of investing in school. With such a background, it goes without saying that one is vulnerable if one becomes unemployed. Then it is important that Aetat is able to discover that he has such problems. We also need to distinguish between those who have difficulty reading and writing, and the group of people who for other reasons have not learned to write and read well enough. There is no doubt that many of them, among others. Crime in freedom is involved, belongs to the group that has had problems at school for reasons other than just dyslexia. When the right to primary education comes into force from 1 July 2002, I am, like the Council of State, sure that many will see it as a new chance, especially if we are able to create an openness around this with difficulty in reading and writing. Then those who have problems can dry up to reveal that they have problems. Only then will it be possible to help. At the LO centre in Stjørdal, the AOF is a technical organiser and the partners are the municipality, the trade unions and the AOF. This is a measure that Aetate is also starting to take advantage of. To put it plainly: whoever gives help is really immaterial, only they get help. The participant is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e350	Being disabled with regard to the writing language has many serious consequences for many in our society, because theoretical knowledge and competence have become what we are going to build our country on. Formal competence, examination papers and vocational letters are required for the vast majority of professions. The tragedy is that so many people have been mistreated in our school system and have to struggle with poor reading and writing skills, low self-esteem, discouragement and depression. It is therefore important that Aetat’s case handlers look at the possibilities for development and take on the basis of the abilities, facilities and interests of the individual in this group. They often carry many experiences from strenuous schooling and bullying both from teachers and fellow students, which must be processed and preferably removed before new learning can be done in a good way. In other words, people who have a serious degree of difficulty in reading and writing do not want to work in the workplace. The Adult Training Project ‘New Chance in Solør’, in which Aetat is also involved, has provided a motivational course as the start of a process to be followed by education and paid work. Such a process may take five years. Nevertheless, it is a good economy for society whose only option is disability. Aetat, social-service and social-security offices work together to make this known to mistreated read-write/dyslexics, many of whom are in all three institutions. In the case of PedLog, which was mentioned, they have a very good idea of starting with the whole human being, and that's important. The reform of competence, a new chance at primary and post-secondary education, or a diploma, is very important. However, in order to succeed, it is essential that those in training have good skills in reading, writing and calculating problems, and that they preferably make individual plans, because that is the best thing to do. I have a vision: one day dyslexics become with their creativity and ability to find solutions to a demand resource in business. If we look back in history, very many of the great ideas are dyslexics. Just to give an example, Henry Ford. Also in Norway we have dyslexics who have shown that they are not as stupid and useless as the school has taught them to believe. We have to take care of them. We need them, and that's why we also need to facilitate that they can work well and use their resources to build society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e367	One of the five main strategies in the Equalise message is a softer workline, allowing more people to get involved in the world of work. Another main strategy is better public services, including: better support functions in primary and secondary schools. There is a clear link between these two strategies and the theme that Stortinget is currently dealing with. When perhaps every other unemployed youth cannot read and write, it must immediately take action to prevent a very undesirable development. It is alarming that the number of disadvantaged young people is increasing, with the difficulties it entails for too many individuals, for the community and for society. The school has a very important role to play. A local economy that provides room for follow-up, both in school and leisure, is a premise. The central party will remind you of the signals that are now coming from many municipalities about further cuts in this field, and will ask that as many as possible take care of the signals before the municipal scheme for the next year is adopted. Strengthening the school advisory service and increasing the focus on teacher training in the case of reading and writing difficulties are very important measures. A very important work is also being carried out at the centre of literacy. You don't have to become a sleep cushion. Here, across the board, there is room for greater effort and more guidance than ever before. Erna Solberg has asked questions about Aeta's competence. Clearly, it can vary. We take the answer from the government councils seriously. We are pleased with his commitment to the clarification of Aetat's tasks, for the necessary competence and for the strengthening of the very necessary cooperation between school, Aetat and other institutions. These are tasks and tasks that are urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e380	Governments have shown great commitment and so-called power of action after it was discovered that Aetat had a paper problem as a result of an unculture in the establishment. Apparently, only Aetat’s director was affected by this – but only apparently. The interpellant has demonstrated that a large number of people with difficulty reading and writing are not met with adequate help by the staff set up to help. Although the problem is well-known and rising, Aetat has neither established any strategy nor good tools to bring people with reading and writing difficulties into the community. This is about a serious shift in the focus of people in need of more long-term and systematic assistance to job seekers who need help with the easier adjustment of their skills, and the dissemination between jobseekers and employers. This is in my view the back of the floor's paper problem, and much more seriously, as it affects a large number of people who do not receive such help as is available and who have to expect. I am convinced that this is not a matter of the state's ability, but of the will of the state. SV is pleased and supports the Interpellant initiative. I would nevertheless like to focus on the structural problem. SV expects the Council of State to act on this issue, which affects our fellow human beings. I would like to reiterate our view that it is high time for the Stortinget to be presented with a communication on labour market and employment policy in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e390	The interpellant travels of issues has been debated in this room several times earlier. But in my view, that's one question that we in many ways avoid. Now, when we put the spotlight on Aetat’s competence — or not competence — and the interpellant indicates that AOF ‘every other unemployed youth has problems with reading and writing’, the question is also: How does our school work work work work when it can happen to the extent that it does? Clearly, as members of the Education Committee, we have had many rounds of both problems and school/educational institutions. But of course, we've had very little to do with Aetat. I see that the interpellant is dealing with here, as a real problem. Aetat has hardly competence for what it's set to solve in the scope that we're talking about here. I also see that the Council of State will work clearly and clearly on the assumption that Aetat will have the skills it needs. But the most important thing, I think, is that Aetat and the educational institutions work together to solve the whole problem area. When we were dealing with the reform of continuing education, or the reform of competence, as it is called, and put in the right to primary and secondary education for adults, it was just to give a new chance to a number of the people we're talking about here. The new chance goes on very often, at least at primary level, that they didn't get through as they should because of reading and writing difficulties. That is why I fully agree with the two main points I have seen that the interpellant travelled, namely the raising of competence in Aetat and the cooperation relationship between Aetat and the educational institution, and the third also that, if this is an obstacle to the problem raised here today, the legislation must be clearly addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e404	Let me first say that I am happy that we are putting reading and writing difficulties on the agenda today. It is immeasurably important that we focus on this, which is a major problem for many. I can't take advantage of the number material that the interpellant uses. The statistics that I've seen operate with a percentage of them with read and write difficulties between 10 and 15, and about 5 pst. That's what we call dyslexics. serious, specific difficulties in reading and writing. Of course, the numbers here are not the important thing. Whether it's 10, 15 or 20 pst. which has difficulty reading and writing, the problem is the same for the individual. And that's where we need to focus, that's on the individual and what society is doing so that whoever has difficulty in reading and writing learns to master his disability. It is only in recent years that this problem has received the attention it deserves. This means that today there are very many adults in Norway who have not received the help and follow-up they needed during their schooling. I believe that with the background of this, we need to tackle the problem on two fronts. One is, as the interpellant is involved, to facilitate training for adults. The second, and in my opinion the most important, is to facilitate good school education. The point is that 13 years of schooling — 10 years of primary school and 3 years of secondary education — must and must lay the basis for mastering reading and writing problems. When you get into working life, it's too late — not in the sense that you can't learn to master it at that time, but you've wasted the opportunities you had during your regular schooling. In my view, the problem should be addressed in the following ways: Efforts must be made to improve understanding of dyslexia and the problems that dyslexia faces. We need to ensure that students at educational colleges get a better and more thorough professional introduction into what dyslexia is, and what can be done to remedy it. The municipalities responsible for primary school education must give priority to organised education for dyslexics. In this context, it should also be mentioned that examinations should be organised in all disciplines and fields of study. Knowledge of dyslexia and the effectiveness of measures is not good enough. More research in this area should therefore be encouraged. And then, of course, good adult training offers have to be developed. In recent years, there has been a strong focus on continuing education for adults. There is a broad consensus that there is knowledge and the ability to acquire new knowledge that will form the basis for what we're going to live on in the years that come. Then it is important not to forget that a large proportion of employees lack the basic skills needed to retrain themselves, namely skills in reading and writing. If a large part of the country’s population is not to be excluded from these reforms, efforts to help dyslexics need to be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e437	Many areas of our daily lives have been taboo for a long time, and reading and writing problems can well come under these taboos. A lot of myths, reactions and actions over the years may not have been of the very best character. People with reading and writing difficulties have been exposed to many different feedback from different parts of society. This has caused too many people to feel ashamed to stand up and talk about this issue. In our search for perfection, there are actually many who choose to stay silent and learn to master a life without having the reading and writing skills you need to survive in a society of today. Low self-esteem, low motivation and social isolation are some of the characteristics. In a society where the ability to receive new knowledge and increasingly master more advanced technologies becomes so important, as others have mentioned, we will be able to create a new class distinction – a distinction between those who can participate in social development and those who cannot participate. It is only in recent years that the knowledge of the extent of read and write problems has become known, and although active work is now being done on the problem in Aetat, I see it as important that work is intensified. My experience, including through my job, is that today's arrangements seem somewhat random. We need to establish a system that captures these people in a better way than today. I am therefore pleased with the signals given by the Council of State when it comes to addressing the Directorate that better arrangements are needed to catch them earlier than today. I am also one of those who are positive that you should consider whether everyone should be tested. There are simple test arrangements – I can mention vocabulary tests – that do not require assumptions from those who carry out the test and that take only four minutes. Then we also avoid another problem – we do not want to stigmatise a group. When you sign up for a job, I actually believe that people expect to be met with a reaction, and maybe a type of simple test, like there are many of them in the system, that focuses on 100 pst. on literacy, be an aid. In the context of the start-up of the AMO course, such type of test at the bottom will also be a very good tool to obtain the best possible result. Other organised arrangements for individuals should also be considered to a large extent. A prerequisite for a living democracy with participation and commitment is that we can read and that we can write. If all the good forces go together, I think we actually have a good starting point today to achieve the goals that we have to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e446	I think it has been a positive interpellation debate in the sense that everyone has agreed that we have a problem that we need to work on more, and that we need to address, perhaps also with new instruments. I also think it's an interesting question if you should start testing everyone. I see that there are problems related to it, but if there are simple tests, there might be a way to start a process that reveals read and write difficulties like the original problem for some people who would have hidden it today, precisely because it causes shame. It often leads to personal problems to admit that this is the problem, and one has become very good at imagining – many of those who have been out of work for a period of time and yet have had difficulties in reading and writing to a serious degree. But at the same time, I want to say that even though we are now implementing major reforms, it does not solve the problem in and on behalf of the group that has lost part of its education because of read and write difficulties. Many of these people already have such an aversion to the school situation that resuming a right that they have been granted will be far from doing. You have to get far in the process of knowing both what you want with your life and what's the main problem before you get there. In addition, getting back in a normal school situation for many will not be a good enough offer either, because you may need more individualised, more direct, and closer groups. That's maybe where this offer in Bergen also comes in. Some reason why this case and Aetat's handling have come to the fore is that PedLog has had an overall offer. People have been treated as adults and have broken some of the principles that have been common to labour market measures. You may not have had an obligation to attend, but you have had an obligation to perform – so you have to do the job, do the homework, do things, etc. You've been dealing with people in a completely different way. That's why it has also created an engagement among the users of the service that may be unique to other offers that have been made. That's why I'm so concerned that you get the width of this kind of offer, that you not only make big reforms and arrangements where only the large adult training organisations can participate and contribute, but get a width that allows you to find individual offers for those who may also have the most difficult starting point. So I'm glad you've been told to do something about competence. I hope that the Council of State will take along the two things I mentioned in my previous post, both the use of testing and the need to provide the research base and the experience base in relation to which actions have been successful. I also feel that there has been broad support for so far in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e453	In general, I would like to say that I want to develop in those areas where the labour market law does not have adequate institutions or partners, where we can acquire the expertise in which it exists – if at the same time we can set such quality requirements and expect the results that make this a reasonable investment for the individual. I think that's the only way we have in ourselves if we're going to be able to handle the serious big promise it's going to be to stand up to the considerable exclusion of the world of work that we have today. This requires a set of measures, not only in relation to those with difficulty in writing and reading, but also to other groups with other disabilities, which have had a significantly greater difficulty in competing on the labour market. I have the basic idea that these are going into normal work. This group has so much resources that we're not going to make any attempt to make any permanent special arrangements for them. That is what is also the strategy of the labour market parliament. Because they have a strategy. So there's a question of whether we can further develop this strategy and make it even better. But then I also have to say that what we are able to do through the labour market seat for not only these groups of disabled people, also depends on how much resources we have in total put in. This is not a situation where you have acquired social security rights and then all the offers fall in place just to make a need visible. Here, there is a framework and resources — both administrative and financial — that govern the overall effort. So let's have it with us when we discuss these questions, so that we promise no more than what we're able to keep. Then I will promise that I will think through and investigate whether there are possibilities for single testing that have been set up so that it can be applied to everyone. But I just have to admit that I'm a little skeptical about a kind of 'force-steering' of all the applicants. That's what I think is going a little bit far. What we need to develop is simple testing systems that we can invite people to participate in when we see that there are obviously challenges here that make writing and reading problems perhaps one of the main problems of disability. I also think it has been a good debate. I want to take with me the recordings that have been made, both from the interpellant and from the other representatives who have participated. And I generally agree when you say that both political and administrative needs to focus more on this type of resource use than what we've done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e464	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e470	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e477	During the debate, Kristin Halvorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the Presidency to take the necessary initiatives to amend the pension schemes of the EEAS, the State Councils and the Supreme Court, so that they are more consistent with common pension rules, inter alia, in order to ensure that annual regulation of the pension follows the basic amount of social security.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e523	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-02.ana.ud320e532	There is no record.
