ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e40	I allow myself to propose Per Ove width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e45	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected President of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e53	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e56	On behalf of myself, I would like to suggest that the annual fee be differentiated according to the length of time the vehicle is registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e61	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e65	On behalf of Per Ove Width and myself, I would like to make proposals for the conversion of the State Canteens into a limited liability company and subsequent privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e70	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e80	The President first requests proposals for two new members to the Election Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e83	I suggest Hill-Marta Solberg and Berit Brørby.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e88	Hill-Marta Solberg and Berit Brørby are proposed as new members of the electoral committee instead of Olav Akselsen and Thorbjørn Jagland, who have joined the government. – Other proposals are not available, and Hill-Marta Solberg and Berit Brørby are unanimously elected as new members of the electoral committee. The President then asks for proposals for six new alternates to the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e95	I suggest Inger Lise Husøy, Tomas Norvoll, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Ane Sofie Tömrås and Aud Gaundal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e100	I wish, sir. The Enox word?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e103	I suggest Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e108	Inger Lise Husøy, Tomas Norvoll, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Ane Sofie Tömrås and Aud Gaundal are proposed as new alternates of the electoral committee instead of Jørgen Kosmo, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Sylvia Brustad, Trond Giske and Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, who have joined the Government. The proposed alternates are entered as No in the referenced order. 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 for the Workers' Party. Morten Lund has been proposed as a new alternate member of the electoral committee instead of Jørgen Holte, who has resigned from the Stortinget. Morten Lund goes in as alternate no. One for the Center Party. – Other proposals are not available, and Inger Lise Husøy, Tomas Norvoll, Bendiks H. Arnesen, Ane Sofie Tömrås, Aud Gaundal and Morten Lund are unanimously elected as new alternate members of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e126	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2563]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e138	After consulting the group leaders, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 4 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 105 minutes, Progress Party 40 minutes, Christian People's Party 40 minutes, Right 40 minutes, Center Party 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes, Left 10 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to five lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each party group and after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e149	The Government of Bondevik announced at the end of the Great Britain's debate on 9 March that the government would withdraw as a result of a proposal on which Prime Minister Bondevik had put in place the government's position, was voted down by the Workers' Party and the Right. This proposal was as follows: ‘The impact requires that the pollution law is not weakened as an environmental policy instrument.’ The vote on the proposal came after the majority of the Storting, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, had taken the necessary decisive decisions to start building gas power plants in Norway. The proposal thus did not concern the gas power case, as some, especially in the Right, have wanted to produce it. It was fully possible for the Right, as for the Progress Party, to both secure decisions on the construction of gas power plants and maintain the Bondevik government. The Progress Party chose to accept the extended hand of Prime Minister Bondevik, whom we considered this proposal to be, because we could achieve both, both to get built gas power stations and to keep the Government. The game on the right did not select to take the extended hand. The only natural explanation that I can figure out is that the Right Party really wanted a change of government, but they wanted to act so that you could still deny that that was what you were doing. On 17 March we received the formal government change, and the minority government of the Workers' Party, led by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, joined, and yesterday we received the Government's statement to the Stortinget. As I see it, there's a basically positive statement we've got from the new government. When Prime Minister Stoltenberg speaks of Norway as ‘the society of opportunity’, there is something I think the whole of Stortinget can end up about. Norway is a good country to live in. It can be better in many areas, and we have considerable opportunities to achieve such improvements. What the Progress Party in particular has noticed is some of the expressions we've used ourselves for very, very many years. The statement states that ‘it is desirable to change and improve’. There is talk of modernising agriculture and the fishing industry, and there is talk of freedom of choice for the people. These expressions remind me of the title I had at my 1998 national meeting, which we have made as an investigation, ‘Modernisation, change and renewal for a better future’. Here it's followed up with concrete things, a lot of things. I'm going to have the pleasure of handing it over as a tipbook to the Prime Minister after my post. The statement also states: «If we stand firm on old solutions that do not work, then we weaken confidence in Community solutions». It's a very, very good description of the situation. Let me mention some areas that I hope the Government will address. This concerns the healthcare system, with hospitals, primary and specialised health services, in the areas of care for the elderly, education, transport and energy. In particular, the first sectors I would recommend are made a state responsibility rather than a municipal and municipal responsibility. There are many debates in this room on the development and maintenance of school buildings and on how individual hospitals are organised. But these tasks are assigned to the county and municipalities. It really makes no sense for governments not to be directly responsible for such important parts of the public sector as the health and education systems. The same applies to care for the elderly. Of course, in addition to making a state responsibility, power and decision-making powers should be decentralised for individual practitioners, more responsibility and influence for individual schools, individual care institutions and individual hospitals. Therefore, they should be reorganised. The form of a limited liability company is likely to be the best, for there are clear laws and rules on liability. I assume that it is initially less interesting who owns the shares, as long as you have public governance and control over this. In terms of transport, let me also mention that, as in the other sectors, there is a need to open up competition to the diversity of practitioners and organisations. The energy sector calls for structuralisation. We don't need more than six-eight energy companies in this country, and we have 180. There is a lot of saving here, in line with the structuralization we need in agriculture and fisheries, in farming and aquaculture, so that we get units that are rational and that have capital for both substantial research and long-term investment in a future. There are today major tasks in restructuring and reorganising the Norwegian society, and I interpret what has come from the Prime Minister as a call for this. We're going to test out the government here. According to several newspapers, the new Minister of Health has said: ‘The overall objective is to meet demand and provide good health care to all, regardless of whether it is the public or the private behind it, says Tøn to NTB.’ This is a general principle. We therefore propose the following: ‘The government asks the Government to base, inter alia, the renewal and modernisation of the public sector on the overall objective of meeting demand and providing well-paid public services to all, whether public or private, which are responsible for the production of services.’ We expect that after the new positive declaration to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, the Workers' Party Group will not have any problems in voting for such a principle proposal, so that the Government will have a mandate from the Storting to initiate the work that needs to be done. Let me also mention the need for a major change in our administrative structure, which is – I was going to say a happy root, but then I guess I get a club – a administration with very unclear responsibilities and identical names of establishments that have completely different principal tasks. We should have a coherent structure of central government based on departments, directorates, agencies and supervision in the individual sectors. We should be allowed to liquidate the county as the extra administrative step it is. It is an organisational bastard who only requires resources and is true in another sensible machinery with the sharing of certain tasks from primary municipality to state. We must ensure that we have a bureaucracy with the attitude with which the head of government concluded yesterday's declaration, namely that the Government should be the people's servants. Then the government's apparatus in the form of central government and the employees who are informed accordingly must also try to answer yes when people apply for permits, grants, dispensations and concessions, and not be guardians who say no. In this way, I hope the Government will implement as soon as possible a dramatic cut-off of the power of the State Environmental Protection Department, which is a threat to democracy by the fact that the decisions of the elected people in the municipalities are transformed by newly recruited people in this department, so that there is a newly employed young person more power than municipal government and building council that has gone through the cases. This is a threat to democracy, and it prevents local democracy from working. So we hope for changes there. I must also mention that I hope that the new government, and in particular the Minister of Justice, will really address crime and also work for a tightening up of our immigration, asylum and refugee policies. Also there we're going to challenge the government a little bit. It was a few days ago, on March 20, a chronicle in the Evening Post of Professor of Social Anthropology Unni Wikan. She took care of the problem with child orphans, where eight out of ten have immigrant backgrounds. Now we have to grab this to help these young people and children who come out here on a crazy track. What Unni Wikan says is that we have to make sure that mothers receive Norwegian education and knowledge about Norwegian society in order to be able to carry out their important tasks in most immigrant cultures, and it is the mother that is the decisive one. Unni Wikan writes: ‘My prediction is that it will not happen unless the training’ — Norwegian training — ‘is compulsory. We need a social contract that obliges immigrants and authorities to cooperate." The Programme of the Workers' Party for the current period states: ‘Then a plan of further training and qualification must be drawn up for each individual. In order to intensify and ensure the integration process, the Workers' Party will make training in Norwegian compulsory for all refugees and immigrants.» We therefore consider the following proposals: ‘In order to intensify and ensure the process of integration, the Workers’ Party will make compulsory training in Norwegian for all refugees and immigrants’.’ This should also enable the Workers' Group to join without difficulty, because Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said and has made it clear that the new government's policy will be based on and based on the National Assembly Programme adopted by the Workers' Party for the current period. Therefore, it should be unproblematic to vote in favour of this particular passage, even if you voted against it in connection with the census two and a half years ago. So finally some words about the future: the Progress Party has noticed that the three former government parties, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, will seek to coordinate and cooperate their views towards the elections and stand for elections as a Trinity with former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik as his candidate for the Prime Minister's office. We don't have any trouble with that. We fully respect it. But it's still our belief that after the election is over and if the voters put together a big one where the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party, the Right and, if necessary, the Left constitute a majority, we should now, after many, many years of minority government – sometimes very weak – try to negotiate a platform for a majority government. I think that after the next election it should be a wish and a need for a majority government. The party is ready to participate with government responsibility and try to find solutions that can bring together. We are aware that the behaviour of the Right Party has recently made the relationship between the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian Party very, very bad. But I now have the hope and the prayer of the Right Party that they begin to look forward as soon as possible and become a little more occupied with getting political friends instead of doing what they can to just get unfriends in all the camps. If the Right does it, it's my hope – if the voters want – that we can work for a majority government after the next big shot. I allow myself to address the referenced suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e218	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e223	The representative Hagen's description of the circumstances surrounding the change of government I do not see as specifically directed towards the Workers' Party. That is why I have no other comments on the fact that the change of government came about after the government had asked a cabinet question, not on the construction of gas power plants, which had then been adopted, but on a proposal that was subsequently voted on, and which could create some uncertainty about the size of the plant that had already been adopted. Furthermore, in his statement yesterday, the Prime Minister made an open call for cooperation with Stortinget – and with the whole of Stortinget. The garden now takes it positively, but you might be sitting with the suspicion that sometimes an embrace can become too warm. I believe that the representative Hagen should also plead that the new government and the Workers' Party Group will work on the issues raised yesterday, on the basis of their assumptions. One of them is clearly a modernisation of the public sector. However, this is a matter of improving the public sector, with greater security for individuals. I don't think Hagen is going to argue that we can get a majority in this room on the assumption of weakening and decreasing the public sector, based on Hagen's ideological notions. On the proposals, I would say, of course, the Workers' Group will vote in favour of proposals in the order in which they are raised, but I do not think that the strategy of taking them individually and detachment is the one that will create the whole of our big group.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e235	It is correct that the representative Tom Thoresen perceived it, that my criticism when it came to the change of government was not primarily directed at the Workers' Party, because it has been obvious to most people that the Workers' Party has been on government hunts and has wanted a change of government. And it's not surprising that the Workers' Party acts like this. This is not the case, as the representative Thoresen claims, that there could be some problems with the proposal on which cabinet questions were raised – that would not create any uncertainty. The proposal adopted by the Right, Labour and Advance Party reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by 1 June 2000 at the latest, to come back with proposals for the amendment of the pollution law if it appears necessary to implement the proposal for decisions on Roman numerals I and II.’; And Prime Minister Bondevik said in his speech that he promised to follow this up by examining these things and making sure that the necessary legislative amendments were prepared if necessary, and this would be achieved by the Stortinge within the deadline in the form of a big message. It was full satisfaction. And this other thing, about clarifying a principled attitude, would have meant nothing but a clarification of an attitude that no one in the Workers' Party and the Right has really expressed that they disagree. Then we don't want to weaken and reduce the public sector, as Tom Thoresen says, in terms of the importance of responsibility, financial responsibility, and control of services. Today, there is no control over services. Health supervision is powerless in the case of hospitals, in the case of care for the elderly. Today, we have the absence of responsibility from the public, the absence of control and the absence of what we have through our supervision in all other areas, so we're going to follow the Government, of course, but we don't have the motives that Tom Thoresen unfortunately hurt to attach ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e247	The representative Hagen used large portions of his post to attack the Right, but ended with a prayer. Then I will follow the good Christian principle of turning the other cheek and answering the prayer only with the following: I believe in the light of thought, representatives of all parties will find out that friendship, including in politics, requires a certain degree of two-sidedness, reciprocity also said. I also choose – on the same principle – to take the outgoing government seriously when it stressed that it was on an important environmental issue. I have never realized that the main environmental issue of the centre parties was an alliance with the Progress Party on Environmental Issues. I have seen that they currently have a different view than my batch of gas power and emission permits. I respect that. It was an important environmental issue, it was a factual disagreement that one should respect each other for. So the Hagen has on several occasions stressed that it was now time to look forward. I agree. It's also important to look at what unites rather than what separates. I agree with Mr Hagen that there is a great deal in the new government's declaration of accession that is positive in terms of the public sector. We agree, the Right and the Advance Party, that there is a need for more competition and to let go of the private sector. But I have a problem with one reasoning, and I hope that the representative Hagen can share that concern with me, namely that the new government sets the condition that private people who are going to get away with it do not have to make money on it. It's a principle I don't understand, especially when the Prime Minister uses private medical services as an example. I think private doctors make money, also that we're sick, and pay for it. Private laboratories make money on it. But why this principle should not be passed on to other parts of the health sector, I have problems with it. I hope it is possible to build a common platform with the Advance Party just on this reasoning, directed both towards the Government and towards the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e256	During my post I also looked at the clock – I am a little dependent on it when I do not have a manuscript. Of 15 minutes I used approx. two and a half minutes on the right. So it's probably a little bit of an interest in itself at Per-Christian Foss when he says I used the majority of my post on the Right. Then he says that there has to be a two-sidedness and a mutual in terms of friendship. Yes, that's quite correct, but that's what's been the problem for a while, that both the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party and the Advance Party have continuously experienced a Right under the direction of Jan Petersen and Inge Wage – and here in the house of Per-Kristian Foss – which uses any occasion for the grinding and negative, ridiculous characteristics, so before you start building any friendship based on reciprocity, it's the Right that has to go in itself and change a part of its style, such as, among other things. Mr Tromsø's former rapporteur, Mr Rian, and some others in the Right, have said. It is quite correct, as I have also interpreted Kjell Magne Bondevik, that the government went off on an important environmental issue for the government. I will again read the proposal, because the Right has the habit of providing incorrect information here as well: ‘The impact requires that the pollution law is not weakened as an environmental policy instrument.’ Yes, it would be an important environmental issue if the Storting went in to weaken the pollution law. That is why this proposal was made, in order to get such a fundamental clarification, and both the Right and the Labour Party made it very clear in the debate that they did not want to weaken the pollution law. Why, then, could they not vote in favour of the proposal, which should have been unanimously adopted? But then it had not worked out the Right and the Workers' Party to get a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e270	Let me first say that I think this is a great day for Carl I. Hagen, because he is now acting as the leader of the largest opposition party in Stortinget. It was a role I have to remind the assembly that the Central Party had in the last period, and it's hard to accept that people in elections actually take the consequence that we have a political landscape, and that's what I want to challenge Carl I. Hagen on. On Thursday 9 March, the Right Party and the Labour Party agreed to merge the central government on a proposal that ‘the Pollution Act will not be weakened as an environmental policy instrument’. Multiplicity of this proposal would prevent government change. Both the Labour Party and the Right stated that they were in favour of the proposal, nor would they weaken the law, but they therefore voted against what they were in favour of. The Labour Party was hunting for government – not surprisingly, and one must assume that the Right also understood what they were doing when they voted against something they were in favour of. So there was a majority, of the Workers' Party and the Right, to get a new government, a government out of the Workers' Party. I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen's description of that. It happened on an environmental matter, and it is politically justified in my opinion. Also the comments on the government statement and Carl I. Hagen’s posts here confirm that the right-hand side of Norway probably has expectations for the new government. I want to challenge Carl I. Hagen on the political landscape. Many times I have experienced that Carl I. Hagen has agreed with me when I say that no Norwegian policy can be divided into two blocks, a so-called “bourgeois” and a socialist, and that the Center Party and the Advance Party should stand together on such a block. I'd like to confirm it, as Carl I did in his post, by not defining the centre party into what could become a majority constellation after the election. The thing is, it's the center of Norwegian politics that's the alternative to the workers' party government, and I think all the parties on the Stortinget are served with constructive cooperation on the content of the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e281	The central party's policy is far from what the Progress Party stands for in many areas. That is why we have also reached that conclusion when it comes to examining the possibilities and negotiating a political platform for a possible majority rule, that it would not be possible for both the Progress Party and the Centre Party to be part of such a constellation. And so we've defined it as the Right Party, the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, because if you want a majority, there are so many points of contact that if everyone adds the goodwill and compromise, the opportunity is there. It is not if both the Centre Party and the Advance Party were to be included. That's the distance too big. Yes, here Anne Enger Lahnstein and I have agreed in many ways. We strongly disagree on how the country should be governed, but when it comes to describing a political situation, we have often carried out the same analysis. There are no clear divisions anymore. These are points of contact among all parties in the Norwegian Storing. Among all the parties it is, and therefore there are all sorts of different majority constellations in the individual cases, and it will be further. But after a long time of minority governments, which cannot be certain to give promises and signals to organisations and businesses, a government and a government agency that has power can eventually become desirable, and it is only a majority government that could have, and therefore it is also that we want to investigate the possibilities if the voters want to. So it's the evolution of the Workers' Party. When we get more meat on the government statement, on the bone, it will explain how the Workers' Party is moving. Whether it's such a few claims that the natural constellation together with the Workers' Party is SV and the Center Party, only evolution will show. When it comes to the claim that the Right understood what they were doing, I have some doubts as to whether the Right understands what they are doing in the daytime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e290	Carl I. Hagen stated to the Evening Post on 20 February this year that CO2 emissions are not pollution in the normal sense. Pollution is when emissions flow into rivers and water so that the fish die, and when people get sick of the air. CO2 does not pollute. Hagen went on to say: ‘... plants live on CO2 and produce more than 95 per cent of the level of CO2 in the soil. – Human-produced CO2 accounts for less than 5 percent. Click-Drag to move the selected pixels to another location. CO2 does not contaminate, if it is released into the shed, the better it grows." Carl I. Hagen has also earlier stated to the press in various contexts that he is not worried about the pollution that is happening. Among other things, he said to Today's Business on April 23, 1998: ‘We need to consider, for example, what it will cost to build dams and dams if the water rises. Adaptation can be much cheaper than preventing climate change.’ I now register, inter alia: in the debate that Carl I. Hagen had with Inge Wohnning on TV yesterday, that Carl I. Hagen is also talking about environmentally friendly gas power plants. I want to ask Carl I. Hagen quite specifically, because he believes that CO2 does not pollute and does not represent any problem purely environmentally: what is Carl I. Hagen actually thinks about when he thinks that new gas power plants will be more environmentally friendly than old, or that production in Norway will be more environmentally friendly than imports, if he does not think about CO2? I want quite specific answers from Carl I. Hagen on what kind of pollution he's talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e311	In the case of CO2, I maintain that it is a greenhouse gas, but it is not a pollution gas. There was a big discussion some years ago about the CO2 pollution control at all, which is a natural gas, where animals, humans and plants are responsible for most of the emissions. In some greenhouses, CO2 is pumped in to make plants grow better. So CO2 is something completely different than what we call pollution, which has poisoned our watercourses, and has made sure that there are substances coming down into groundwater that make it not good for us to drink. So these are two very different things. And there are many scientists, including, for example, Professor Øystein Noreng, who believes essentially the same as the Progress Party on these matters. An environmentally friendly gas power plant is, of course, a gas power plant that does not emit these other gaseous pollutants – among others. NOx and sulphur dioxide. But for me, a gas power plant is basically sensible for the production of electricity in relation to lignite power, which we import. With regard to the entire gas power debate, I have no problem joining all the views of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. So Ballo mentioned a debate yesterday with Inge Wage. In fact, he confirmed that he too would be able to consider this proposal on which Mr Bondevik put in the position of the government, as an expression of a principled attitude, a sort of resolution, which he said could have been made in a student society. If he thought it was so harmless, he could have voted in favour and saved the government of Bondevik. So in reality, Inge Wohnung confirmed yesterday that the Right was fully aware that the very proposal they could have voted in favour of, but they chose to vote against because they wanted a government shift – they just didn't want to be blamed for it. But when they act like that, they deserve to be blamed for what they've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e321	Carl I. Hagen used parts of his post to mention the change of government and the circumstances around it. It's natural, for it was historic when the Right decided that they would replace the central government with a working party government. It becomes even more special when it appears now that this was not an impulse action, but part of a larger strategy. Even when the central government joined, the Right-Chairman, Jan Petersen, said that he wanted to join the government on the Declaration of Accession. Now the party's vice-president Inge Wohnung says that this was a cost for the acquisition of income. I guess the cost was conflict with your own voters and conflict with other parties that you should cooperate with. The income I suppose must be that a get social-democratic policy directed by Jens Stoltenberg. The party of progress does not want a change of government. Equally fully, I note that Carl I. Hagen is in favour of the declaration presented by the new government, not least it is directed towards the formulations on the modernisation of the public sector. The left also wants public sector renewal. This is why the central government is focusing on a simpler Norway, greater transparency, privacy, service declarations and service offices – a policy that was much more concrete in this area than the policy that the new government is putting forward. So my question is, what's in this statement that Carl I. Hagen is so excited about? I register that both the head of the local council, Jan Davidsen, and Carl I. Hagen are equally enthusiastic about the same statement. So far, it appears to be the greatest masterpiece of the new prime minister, to formulate itself in this field that it inspires both Carl I. Hagen and Jan Davidsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e330	I don't think enthusiasm is the appropriate word for neither Jan Davidsen nor me. As we see it, we can't actually change government too often; there's too much cost for the management system. After the Right Party and the Labour Party made government change, it is the responsibility of the Progress Party, as the largest opposition party, to have a constructive attitude towards the new government. We are prepared to cooperate also with the new government on a case-by-case basis and in the cases where it is natural. There are some things where it's natural, and there's probably a lot of things where it's not natural. We want a constructive attitude, and we want it to be for every government. In this respect, with the positiveness of the statement, it is the words ‘renewal’ and ‘change’, removing old-fashioned solutions that do not work, that is what we have chosen to focus on, and then we have our interpretation. Through my post, I framed how things should be followed up further. The Prime Minister has received a booklet on how he can in practice carry out the change and modernisation of Norwegian society. We choose to be positive, there are enough people in society who are always negative and who see only problems, difficulties and impossibility. I choose to interpret the new Prime Minister positively when he talks about Norway as a society of opportunity. Let's see the possibilities. And I see the possibility that the government can bring a lot of things. And then we'll see if it's Jan Davidsen that gets even more satisfied than what he is later on, and I'm getting even more sour – or if it's the other way around. For Norwegian society, of course, I hope it is we in the Progress Party who will get an ever wider smile and opportunity to say welcome again and again after. I hope that Jan Davidsen then gradually will find something more reasonable to do than to be backward-looking opponents of any change and renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e343	Through its Declaration of Accession, the Government of Stoltenberg emphasises that Norway is the society of opportunities. Our natural resources, our well-being society and our total knowledge and experience make us that. Few – if any – places in the world should be better placed to ensure that everyone is allowed to participate in the welfare goods. And few – if any – countries have better opportunities than us to also show international solidarity. The Bondevik government chose to resign after obtaining the majority of the Storting against itself in the gas power case. It was the Workers' Party's task to form a new government. As a minority government, the new government will have to find collaboration solutions with several parties here at Stortinget. The Government's declaration of accession has been well received by the parties to the Stortinget. Many positive opinions on the declaration were expressed in yesterday’s comments. I take that as a clear indication that the opposition parties intend to pursue a constructive opposition policy. The parliamentary situation we are facing will not guarantee any government a clearly defined majority to rely on in the Storting. The new Labour Party Government must therefore rely on the inclusion of a different majority in this Chamber, and it must deal with situations in which a majority of the Labour Party does not form part. Although the parliamentary situation appears to be this way, it is a political basis for the Government to govern. In areas such as economic policy, distribution policy, energy and environmental policy and in the perspective of European policy, the Workers' Party will be able to find a majority. In examining the State budget for 2000, the central parties and the Workers' Party agreed. The budget agreement we entered into provides an important basis for the government's work. The Centre Parties invited to cooperate with the Workers' Party in the process of the Equalisation Notice. The Equalisation Communication concerns very important issues of distribution, such as: tax policy, housing policy, social services and labour market policy. It is in line with both the stated objectives of the central parties and the Labour Party in the distribution policy that we are seeking cooperation in such matters. Also in the case of state ownership, there is agreement on important points between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. During the processing of the Energy Communication, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party agreed on most points. Prime Minister Bondevik then began his speech in the Grand Duchy by stressing just the broad majority. This shows that the parties are united on important main lines of energy and environmental policy. Here it was in the question of gas power that the disagreement stood. At the same time, there will be areas where the Government cannot expect the full impact of the Labour Party's policy. The Government's declaration of accession therefore also involves an invitation to wide-ranging cooperation with the parties on the Stortinget. The Workers' Party will be committed to working together to achieve important objectives, both in the allocation policy, in adapting to the global knowledge economy, in European policy and in other areas. Knowledge and research will be crucial for future businesses and for workers. The implementation of the continuing training reform shall be a high priority. It is also apparent from the Declaration of Accession. In economic policy, we face major challenges. However, the situation is that Norway has a good economy. Our need for public sector renewal can therefore be met within a positive economic framework. This gives completely different possibilities than a forced cut in the public service offer would mean. The renewal of the public sector to which the Government provides may therefore be carried out in dialogue with users, local elected representatives and in cooperation with employees and their organisations. Major challenges in the health sector will require transformation. Public service provision in the health sector must be so good that people choose and rely on public solutions. The provision of the population should be a health service with capacity that is there when we need it. This requires proper organisation and proper use of the money. The Labour Party wants the municipal sector to have stable and predictable framework conditions. It is essential for good kindergartens, it is essential for a good school, and it is essential for good care services. The sector’s access to resources needs to be increased, as stated by the Government in its Declaration of Accession. But the answer to all the challenges in the municipal sector is not just more money. Labour distribution and organisation between levels of government need to be reviewed. The task allocation selection will submit its summer setting. The attitude will be given a thorough treatment in the Labour Party, but we can already say that there is a need for reform here. While the demand for services is increasing, the requirements for more tailored services are also growing. To create new solutions, we need to go where the welfare is produced, to the meeting place of the individual and society in almost all phases of life. It's in the communities where we live, where we live our lives. In addition to being service providers, municipalities should also be a real arena for democracy and governance. But it means that we also need to reform the governance system, including how power is distributed between the levels of government. Municipalities have had many new tasks in recent years. We want more room for local planning, and then we also have to give more power to the municipalities. Should the municipalities rule more, Stortinget must dare to operate less detailed management than has been the case in recent years. It is a fact that detailed management from the Storting leads to large resources agreeing to control and verification, and there are resources that should go to services. The work of creating better distribution and safe well-being shall not prevent us from being concerned with international solidarity. We live in one of the richest countries in the world, and that gives us an extra responsibility to help fight poverty. In the Government Declaration, the Workers' Party is committed to targeting means of assistance to combat poverty, and we want to be involved in front of a vaccination programme for children. Every year, 3 million children die of diseases that are vaccinated against. We can do something about this. The Labour Party Government will, of course, build its policy on the Labour Party programme. It is also reflected in the government statement under discussion today. At the same time, a minority government must be prepared to seek compromises in Stortinget. In its Declaration of Accession, the Government of Stoltenberg has invited broad cooperation with the parties in Stortinget, and I assume that the opposition parties will also contribute to creating good and collective solutions in important matters for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e380	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e383	The new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, said among others: that we live in one of the richest countries in the world. And that's absolutely correct. I want to ask her a little bit about what she, the government and her party will prioritize if there's someone who's going to get some improvements. With regard to the kindergarten message, it has been speculated in the media that it could possibly be withdrawn because the Workers' Party will be in favour of the statutory right to kindergarten for anyone who has a wish to do so. Is it true that the Labour Party is in favour of that? And if that is the case, why has the Workers' Party consistently opposed the statutory right to public health care paid to elderly people in need of care? And why does the Workers' Party oppose the legal right to the necessary medical treatment paid out of the public interest – that is, it should not depend on the economy of the individual municipality or county municipality, but that it should be a duty to pay the public interest when the need for services arises, of course, after a public system that checks that there is a real need? That's the one. And why does the Workers' Party continue to oppose the statutory right to medical services and elderly people's benefits when, like the former government, the Workers' Party is at the same time in favour of automatically providing the necessary additional appropriations as necessary to increase the costs of increased asylum migration? As far as this is concerned, the Labour Party has also said that no matter how many asylum seekers come, only additional appropriations should be granted. Why not do so when it comes to the needs of the elderly and the sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e392	The representative Hagen's line and questions give me the opportunity to point out what might be the most important difference in the view of how Velferds-Norway will develop in the future, namely whether we should base our welfare society on community solutions where everyone is offered within a community, or whether we should have a welfare society based on legal rights. It has never been the Labour Party's policy, nor has it actually been such that the majority of the parties in Norway have wished for a welfare society based on a rights system based on legal rights, where the meeting place of the inhabitants and the state is the legal venue. The representative Hagen has his ideas at this point from the United States, where he has largely based his welfare arrangements on such a system. We don't want to. On the other hand, the Workers' Party wants us to ensure our welfare arrangements through good public offers, and that it is also an obligation for the public to make such offers. In the nursery sector in particular, the Workers' Party has not intervened in order for us to have a legal right to kindergarten, but for us to have a legal obligation to expand. That's the Labour Party's position on that issue. Hagen also asks who we want to help. Yes, it is stated in the Government Declaration, and it is very difficult to explain in the Workers’ Party’s Programme for fairer distribution. I also encourage Hagen to continue using his speaking time to read from the Workers' Party's programme – that's good stuff – as he has done before today. But if the representative Carl I. Hagen reads in our «Program for fairer distribution», he will see that the Workers' Party is committed to getting a welfare society that includes everyone. We realize that we've got a society where there's someone outside. It's a minority that doesn't get a share of all the good things, and that's what we're going to have to focus on in Velferds-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e403	Now the government statement is not particularly concrete and binding in its design, so we have to wait for the government to get its work going properly before we can judge the political course that is now being launched. But in the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the signals given in the Government Declaration that the new government will follow up many of the initiatives taken by the Bondevik government in important areas: the conversion of the VAT system, the efficiency and modernisation of public administration, the partial privatisation of Telenor, the work of a European message – all this had come a long way in the design of the previous government. I still think that the government is quite free when it alerts efforts for a clean environment, when we know that the government of Bondevik left and the government of Stoltenberg came to power on an important environmental issue that was about the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument, that is, the opposite of working for a clean environment. I have a specific question for the new parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party. I noticed that the Labour Party leader Thorbjørn Jagland as late as just two or three weeks ago went out hard against the government of Bondevik and promised significantly more money to the municipalities, and that already in the revised national budget. I assume that this will now be followed up by the government of Stoltenberg, and that the municipalities can trust the promises that came from the head of the Workers' Party. I would ask the Labour Party's parliamentary leader to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e412	I must say that I think it was very pleasant that so many of the opposition parties at Stortinget yesterday expressed satisfaction with what is in the government statement by the government of Stoltenberg. It also emerged from the centre parties. The fact that the central parties see a lot of politics in this statement that they agree with seems from my point of view to be positive. It also provides a basis for cooperation in the United Kingdom in many important areas. I think it is understandable that the representative Steensnæs needs to raise the environmental issue. On the other hand, I very much disagree with his amazement, for the fact is that when the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Parties, dealt with the energy message, the Centre and the Workers' Party agreed on almost all important environmental issues: the vision of new technology programmes, the vision of alternative energy sources, the commitment to an increase – there is a very long list of measures in the communication on which the Workers' Party and the Centre agree in energy and environmental policy. We disagree on one point, namely, the development of gas power, not whether we are going to have gas power in Norway, but whether we are going to build now with current technology, or whether we are going to wait. That's the point of the battle. We also disagree with the centre of our understanding of the proposal put forward in Stortinget, which actually meant – as we see it – to create a ambiguity as to what the Storting had actually adopted. There is disagreement as to what contributes to strengthening or weakening the pollution law, and then voting in favour of the proposal made by the centre would mean creating a great deal of confusion as to what was actually in the Storting decision. On the issue of the local government sector, I refer to the government statement. Here it is quite clear that the sector must be allocated more resources, and I assume that the Government is following it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e424	First, a small comment on patient rights. The size has just addressed that question, and even if the Right wanted patients to have stronger rights than what was adopted, we still perceive the law decision to give patients rights. When I now heard the answer that Hill-Marta Solberg gave, I must say that I am beginning to doubt whether she is still behind the decision that the Stortinget made at that time. Then to the statement. There were several interesting, good contributions to the declaration made, not least in terms of modernisation of the public sector. The right is looking forward with great anticipation to the proposals that had to be made, because when such clear analysis is given and so clear expectations are created, it is not useful to come back with anything puzzled, then there must be proper reforms. And if the real reforms are going in the right direction, the Right will of course be in the right direction. However, there is one area where the Government obviously does not see any need for reform, and where the Right believes there is a need for significant reforms, and in the case of education, the Norwegian School, where there is a lot to do in terms of quality, when it comes to recruiting young people into the teaching profession, when it comes to getting something right for those who fall through, when it comes to doing something real to take the individual requirements of the students seriously, and when it comes to getting better vocational training. There is virtually nothing said about this in the statement. Then my question becomes Hill-Marta Solberg: What reforms will she now want for the Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e435	I would first like to say that it was gratifying to note that the party Right yesterday also found many points to express satisfaction in the declaration presented by the Government of Stoltenberg. It also means that the Right will work to participate and win a majority with the Labour Party in some areas where it is natural. So patients' rights. Yes, the Labour Party has voted in favour of all the laws adopted on patient rights, but it is clear that we have never wanted to go as far as the question of making the welfare systems one-sided legally defined rights as the Progress Party has wanted. Here, I believe that there is a clear distinction between what the majority in the Grand Duchy has stood for, and what has often been the line of the Progress Party in those questions, and that is what I marked in relation to the representative Hagen. There is no doubt that there is broad political agreement on the analysis provided by the government of the need for reforms in the public sector. It's a citizen to make it possible to do important things. Now I have noticed that not least the right parties tend to equate any form of innovation and reform with privatisation. It has not been acknowledged that any renewal must take place through privatisation, but such measures must also not be omitted. First, if it is agreed that there is a great need to reform the public sector, there must be a good enough basis for carrying out important things. This brings the government back to Stortinget, as also pointed out in the statement. Education and competence are clearly identified in the Government Declaration. The government of Stoltenberg sees the need for society to build on education and competence in order to secure future value creation and well-being. The relationship between value creation, knowledge and competence is clearly underlined by the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e446	The Declaration of Government is generally in its form. There seems to be a broad consensus on that. And then we will probably also use part of this debate to clarify how to interpret some of the points in this statement. I have two questions in this regard. When it is said in the context of the development of biotechnology that Norway should not stand outside the new technological revolution in the field of biotechnology, it might be interesting to ask the new parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party whether this means that the Workers' Party is now prepared to accept the EU patent directive, also called patents in life. If the answer is no, the question is, what are we going to add to that wording? The second issue relates to relations with the EU, where there is a need for clarification, also because both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have spoken so eloquently. When the Declaration states that the Government is basing itself on the 1994 referendum on membership, my question is: Does this wording also include Jagland's January opinion that the Workers' Party's new programme should provide room for action to enable the Workers' Party to join the next period? In any case, does Hill-Marta Solberg agree with me that it will be the Workers' Party's possible adjustment of its programme that will provide the final response to the government statement at this point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e455	I have a certain understanding of the impatience of the representative Jakobsen in having a detailed and complete government program on the table just a week after the government joined. On the other hand, it is natural, when you think about it, to also give the government Stoltenberg the opportunity to come back with the individual matters to Stortinget. This will be the case for any government, including for the new Labour Party government. However, it is clear that what is stated in the Government Declaration is important signals – there are important signals about what the Labour Party Government will give priority to, and what it will work on in the future. And when biotechnology is mentioned in the Government Declaration, it is also a signal, it is a signal that the Workers' Party and the Government will enter into the assessment of the Patent Directive with an open mind. What we experienced from the previous government was really the opposite: they had locked their position before they even went into the discussion about the impact of that directive. No conclusions have been drawn in relation to this Patent Directive, but the Government indicates that it is seen to have several aspects, and that it wants to be discussed and assessed with an open mind, and that is certainly a proper way to approach such a question. The alternative is to do as a center, to declare disagreement initially. With regard to the link with Europe and the importance for Norway of the changes that are now taking place in Europe, the Government Declaration is quite clear to my mind, for it clearly states that the Workers' Party in its European policy is based on the referendum. It is at the root of this, and it will do so for our future European policy. However, at this point too, it must be right and necessary for Norway to have an open position, and it will have to do so, not lock our positions for a long time in the future on what will be possible for Norway to do with the changes taking place in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e464	Hill-Marta Solberg spent quite a lot of time stressing that the political solutions lie with the Workers' Party and the middle parties. If we look at the education and research sector, which is an important area that was also mentioned in the declaration, the political responses have in many ways been at the crossroads between the SV and the Workers' Party. The Labour Party and SV have generally had a common view of the important educational policy issues in the last period. We agree that there is a resource crisis in Norwegian school. We see that there has been a decay in many areas, and we've also largely agreed on the medicine that needs to be printed in order to do something about this relationship. The Labour Party has now joined the SV's proposal that we should include minimum standards in the education sector in order to ensure that there is as much equal training as possible. We agree that something needs to be done about the content, that the curricula need to be implemented in a better way than today, and that there needs to be a content reform in our school. On the research side, we have agreed that research efforts need to be stepped up dramatically. My question to Hill-Marta Solberg is: will not the political solutions in education and research be at the intersection of SV and perhaps parts of the centre, and will it not be important for the Workers' Party to stress that if we are to implement these important educational and research policy areas, they must apply to SV and perhaps parts of the Centre? And then I have an additional question: in connection with the recruitment message, the Labour Party spoke about NOK 1.5 billion into school already at the revised national budget. Can we expect the Labour Party to put in a good deal of money to do something about the recruitment situation already in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e473	It is quite right, as the representative Rikvam points out, that the Workers' Party and SV have had very good cooperation on important aspects of Norwegian school policy. We have also had this in Stortinget lately, not least through the management of the recruitment message. There is no reason other than that the Workers' Party and the SV should continue the good cooperation we have on important aspects of school policy. We've agreed that we should bet on improving the content of school, we've also agreed on questions about teacher's density and a number of key questions about quality in school. This is where the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party have had the same vision. And not least, we have had a common view of the attitude of the single school — the importance of a public school for everyone. So I'd like to stress that this is a policy area where we've worked out together before, and I'm assuming we're going to be able to do it in the future as well. However, as of course also the representative of Rikvam is fully aware, the views of the Labour Party and the SV in school policy must win a majority in the Stortinget, we must also convince some more. So, together with SV here in the Storting, we get to work to convince not least some of the people who are close to us in such matters, namely the center, so that they will be involved in doing what is necessary for the school – that what could be created by a majority. Of course, when the representative of Rikvam asks about how many kroner will come into the revised national budget, he is fully aware that he cannot get an answer to that today. It says itself. But the work is in progress in the Government, and we will, of course, return to the Stortinget in all areas – including education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e482	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e485	The Declaration of Accession of the Stoltenberg Government contains many objectives that most people may agree on. It will be the government's concrete follow-up and proposals that show what it stands for and what it will get through here in the Storting. The Labour Party government has come to power because the Labour Party and the Right failed in environmental policy. Yes, the two batches are willing, if necessary, to weaken the pollution law in order to allow for highly polluting gas power plants. This wouldn't be the center government on this. The parliamentary situation that has now been created is therefore the primary responsibility of the Labour Party and the Right. For two and a half years in government, the centre has shown control and, for serious reasons, has marked itself as a separate centre of gravity and government option. That's why, in the opposition, we will continue to cooperate, while, of course, we will also give room to mark the peculiarities of the parties. We will coordinate our work through regular contact, even if we do not aim to vote the same in every case. In relation to other batches, the centre batches will act as one grouping. Norwegian policy in the future will include, inter alia: be characterised by environmental struggle. The centre batches will continue to work towards the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. It is important to stimulate the development of new technologies that are non-polluting. It is also necessary to create an economic framework that can contribute to the good economy of gas power plants based on such modern technologies. The Kyoto Protocol must be followed up. It will be demanding for Norway. Allowances shall be complementary to national measures. What are the measures taken at national level by the Government? The number of national measures needed to achieve a strong increase in the pollution from gas power plants will have to be increased. The central government called for family policy, with greater emphasis on freedom of choice for families with young children. Important elements here were the introduction of cash support, the continued development of kindergartens and independent birth-related fathers’ rights. We want to protect what we've achieved while we want to move on. It is positive that the Labour Party Government now recognises that the cash support scheme cannot be liquidated but that it will manage it on the contrary. The central government’s child care service alerts measures to achieve full child care coverage, and provides a good basis for further policy in this area. The government is warning measures to modernise and renew the welfare state. This is also in line with the work of the central government. We started the project ‘Simplifying Norway’. The project consists of three main pillars: modernisation of central government, reduction and simplification of the form field, especially towards business, and less central government and greater local autonomy for municipalities. Hundreds of individual projects have already been launched as part of this programme, and these have been presented in a project catalogue published under the central government. The new government should follow up this work. I also expect it to do that. Thus, the Labour Party Government, if it will itself, has already obtained a good basis from the previous government for the work of modernising and renewing the public sector. We are currently spending more resources than ever on health care and care for the elderly. But still a lot of work is done. The central government provided, and was adopted, contingency plans for psychiatry, cancer care and equipment acquisition in hospitals. These must now be followed up by the new government. The input-driven funding contributes to an increasing number of patients being treated, but it also increases the costs of hospitals and counties. Here we expect increased resource effort from the Government. There is now a reunited position from the Municipal Councils, the county councils, the county hospitals and the department on the hospital economy and the need for funding. This is dated March 16th, and it's urgent to follow up from the Government. There are expectations that the new Minister of Health will take action to reorganise, which can improve the efficiency of the health sector. In this way, I also see that it's pointed to his work on the reorganisation of the SND. We look forward to his amendment. But I remind you that there is a fundamental difference between the reorganization of a business apparatus on the one hand and a health care service on the other hand. International solidarity and closeness are fundamental to the Christian People's Party and the Centre Parties. It is positive that the Labour Party is giving a similar opinion here. But it requires active follow-up. Here, the government has a good basis in the central government plans for stepping up assistance, indebtedness for developing countries, and in the human rights action plan. The government announces proposals to support the Global Vaccine Initiative for Children. That's excellent. The central government announced support for this in a letter to the head of the World Health Organisation for approx. Seven weeks ago. The new government is so fortunate that it takes responsibility for an economy that is strong and healthy. It contributed to the central government through a tight budgetary policy and income policy cooperation. Employment is now high, unemployment is low and price rise moderate. But at the same time, what has been achieved can be played out quickly. Therefore, continued responsible fiscal policies and income policy cooperation are required to provide moderate settlement. Labour Party government is based on social democratic ideology. This one actually has a collectiveist starting point. The Christian People's Party is based on Christian democratic ideology. This is based more on the individual human being, and will build society around autonomous units of family and civil society. This means that we also place great emphasis on the resources that can be deployed in the community and non-governmental organisations. The State shall ensure smoothing and equivalency through governance. Christian democracy is more value-oriented than system-oriented, with emphasis on human dignity, closeness to love, stewardship, and the universal norms of the Ten Commandments. Norway is rich in natural resources. We also have a high-educated population. We focus on modern information and communication technologies. That gives us plenty of opportunities. Norway is, in fact, a country of opportunity. But what do we want to use these possibilities for? Possibilities are opportunities for good, but also for evil. What the result is depends to a large extent on an ethical standard that allows the possibilities to be exploited for the positive. That is why awareness of standards and values is so important. If not, we can end up in a society characterized by a'soulless materialism'. What we want, instead, is a society characterized by fair distribution, humanity, care and warmth. The Christian People's Party believes the best source of developing such a society is in the Christian cultural heritage. The Labour Party Government's declaration said nothing about the basis on which it would build, and did not contain a single word about the policy it would pursue in relation to the Norwegian Church and other churches. Together with the other central parties, the Central Party and the Left, the Christian People's Party will mark an alternative to the Social Democracy and Government of the Workers' Party. The centre is today the real government option for the Stoltenberg government. We have shown and will continue to show willingness to take responsibility. The Centre Parties will continue their cooperation on the basis of the Waxenå Declaration with emphasis on the following main lines summed up in these 12 points: 1st@item: inlistbox The central parties will pursue a policy firmly anchored in our national and Christian cultural heritage.2. The central parties will continue their efforts to pursue an energy and environmental policy that puts into place the consideration of future generations. Anti-pollution gas power plants and the pollution law shall not be impaired.3. The central parties reject the referendum to EU membership and support an independent assessment of the EU directives, including: taking into account health, safety, environment and human dignity.4. The central parties want Norway to be a leading country in the work on human rights, peace and reconciliation. We will step up efforts to promote social and economic cohesion at national and global level and pursue a humane refugee and asylum policy. The action plan on human rights, the aid and debt plans for developing countries and the Equalisation Communication are followed up.5. The central parties will bring the whole country into use and continue their work on active district policy. It is necessary to improve the standard on the national and county road network. Urban policies focus on the environment, social protection and good public services.6. The parties to the Centre will pursue an economic policy that ensures national right of access to natural resources. National ownership shall be stimulated and business shall have predictable and competitive framework conditions.7. The centre parties are in favour of a public sector which is as efficient and unbureaucratic as possible. We will work for more transparency in administration and continue work on the ‘Simplifying Norway’ project and enhanced privacy.8 The central parties will strengthen the local economy in the future budget. We are in favour of conversion measures that can provide high-quality public services without the local authorities giving up responsibility for the service provision. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations must be further developed.9. The centre parties will focus on education and research. This is a long-term investment in people and quality of life that enables us to meet tomorrow's skills requirements. Cultural policy shall provide all opportunities for experience and self-activity.10. The central parties will work for a family policy with a focus on freedom of choice and good care for children. The day-care centre notification and the cash support scheme are followed up. The Centre Parties will promote an active gender equality policy.11. The centre parties will further expand health and care services. The contingency plans for the care of the elderly, the psychiatry, the care of cancer and the acquisition of equipment in hospitals are followed up.12. The centre parties will prevent and combat all forms of crime. Respect for law and justice is essential for democracy, for safe communities and for an international legal society. Along these main lines, the central parties will continue their cooperation and mark their policies here in the Stortinget, and be open to constructive cooperation with the Government as well as other parties in the Stortinget where we agree on the issue. We'll follow the main line that we're voting for what we're in favour of and against what we're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e570	It looks like we're still going to stay for a while last week and a week before there's a debate. Well, I guess we'll just have to think about that. And that debate I expect both Mr Bondevik and others to try to continue. Today, it might have been right that we tried to look forward. This was done by the representative, Mr Bondevik, when he presented the scheme for his centre option. I don't know if it's possible to call it a sort of draft of Bondevik's next government statement, what was listed. And in case it's going to be the governance template for the center parties here in Stortinget, it's very much lying there as there's a good basis for cooperating, as it sounded. Bondevik also stressed in his statement that we are in a situation where Norway has a very strong and good economy, but that it will also depend on the continued responsibility for fiscal policies in the future. I think that the representative Bondevik can count on will also be the line of the new Labour Party government. For the current year, we have a budgetary agreement with the central parties, which the centre parties and the Labour Party as a whole have voted in favour. I have already found that the central parties have confirmed that this agreement is of course in place. But it might be interesting to hear how the representative Bondevik looks at the situation in our budget when it comes to auditing. Is it not natural, then, to think that the parties responsible in full for the budget that we are running after have a primary responsibility for the audit, which is really going to be an audit to ensure the implementation of the budget for which we have an agreement? I would like to hear Mr Bondevik's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e579	The new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party felt that I was staying in the debate last week. What was the last week or week before there was debate? Well, a government that went off because we wouldn't fail the environmental policy, because we wouldn't help weaken the pollution law, which has been an important environmental policy tool ever since it was introduced during Gro Harlem Brundtland's reign in 1981. It is not the debate of the past; it is, to a large extent, the debate of the future. Because it's about the living environment for future generations, and that fight isn't over. Fortunately, a single polluting gas power plant has not yet been built in Norway. This will be the case in the future as well. So this isn't last week's debate, this is most likely the future debate. If it is something that is the debate of the future, it is the fight for a clean environment – and that fight will lead the centre parties. As far as the budget is concerned, I can assure the Group leader of the Workers' Party that the agreements between the Centre parties have been concluded, whether they have been concluded with the Workers' Party or, as in some other areas, with other parties here in the Stortinget. And of course, what is in the budget agreement between the centre and the Workers' Party from last autumn, we are at the same time also through the review of the revised national budget. But it is in the nature of the matter that a revised national budget means changing some of the budget. And of course, we cannot now pre-guarantee that we support any proposed amendment to the adopted budget that the Labour Party government had to present. It will depend entirely on the content of the amendments. We must be constructive and vote for what we think is right to vote for because we agree, but we cannot give a blank mandate to a new government to promote any amendment that we have not seen, and promise support in advance. Of course we can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e587	I have two questions for the representative Bondevik, one that has to do with the past, and one that has to do with the future. It has been claimed to me that then Prime Minister Bondevik did not have any faith or hope that the majority would be able to support the Steensnæs proposal on 9 March. However, I understood the Steensnæs proposal not to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument as a kind of extended hand to those of us who were for gas power plants, but who were opposed to government change. I would like to hear Mr Bondevik's views on this, whether he essentially shares some of the views I expressed earlier on how the parties that did not want a change of government could have saved the Government, even if they did not give up their position in the case of a gas power plant. When it comes to the future, I fully respect the fact that the centre parties will continue their cooperation. But I would like to ask the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party whether he agrees that what will happen after the elections in 2001 will be the verdict of the voters. And if the voter's judgment is such for the plans of the three parties of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Central Party that the work and the possibility of a tripartite government are not present, does the parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party appear to be naturally, if there are non-socialist parties that form a majority after the election, that they come together to discuss the possibility of finding a political platform for a majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e596	First a little bit about the past, as Carl I. Hagen asked. Of course, it's not uninteresting, because it's all about why we got a new government to do. I can essentially agree with the presentation Carl I. Hagen has given on this point. The proposal that Einar Steensnæs made on behalf of the three centre parties, we had of course a hope of being able to be adopted, because we hoped that there was a majority in the Stortinget that would not weaken the pollution law. The Labour Party's then parliamentary leader even said that he could plan to strengthen it, but still he could not vote in favour of a proposal not to weaken it. It clearly showed us that it was not the pollution law or the environment that was the matter for the Workers' Party, but that it was the interest to come back to government. It's fair enough, even though I might think you could say it right out. This was meant to be an outstretched hand, and we had at least hope that the non-socialist parties would accept that hand and not be with the Workers' Party in their run towards government power. The Party of Advancement chose to do that, but not to the Right, and we just have to say that. Of course, in the case of future government options, the election of voters in 2001 could be decisive for which government we will then receive. We see it this way in the center parts that today we appear as the real alternative to the working party government. In fact, the center is also the largest opposition grouping – we are larger than the Progress Party, we are larger than the Right – and also in that way the natural alternative. For me, it is not the case that one should seek a majority government for the sake of the majority government, even though it should be non-socialist parties which, together after the 2001 elections, will have a majority. The majority government has the advantage that when it comes down to the Storting with its proposals, it is quite sure to have them adopted. But it has the disadvantage – and in particular with the constellation Carl I. Hagen mentioned – that the spread within the government is so great that the work can suffer and become inefficient from it. Therefore, in many situations minority governments may be preferable [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e605	This debate shows that something nice has happened to the climate in Norwegian policy, for now the relationship between the centre parties and the Progress Party has become so warm from both sides that it will not be back later to any cooperation problems on that side of the political landscape. I assume that the representative, Mr Bondevik, agrees with me that if you can have such a warm relationship with the Progress Party, where there have sometimes been some ideological differences, it must be all the easier to cooperate with those closer to the political landscape. I think that's a very good promise for the future. Now, however, I have registered that one of the party leaders of the centre parties, namely, Mr. Enoxen, commented on the change of government immediately after it had taken place, saying that his great fear was that a workers' party government would involve a right triangle in Norwegian politics. This was said even before the government statement was presented. And it must have meant that the head of the Center Party considers it so that the center's government project was to go to the left of the Workers' Party. My question is: does the representative Bondevik share that opinion? In this case, there is a further emphasis on the fact that this government change is one of the most peaceful government changes we have had in Norway, because the new government can accede on the basis of a 100pst. agreement with the outgoing government on the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e612	The representative's salary was concerned with the climate between different batches. Those who heard him and Carl I. Hagen in the ‘Centre’ on TV2 yesterday have recorded that the climate on the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is such that had ever dreamed of them being a common alternative, they are at least longer from it than ever before, and it has well been the representative of Wohnung himself strongly contributed to it. With regard to the relationship between the Progress Party and the Centre, it must be possible for the representative to distinguish between pay and others the case and the manner in which lots act in relation to each other and in connection with a government change. The party of progress has been exemplaryly tidy in many cases, even in connection with the change of government that we have now undergone, and they clearly stated from – as opposed to what the Right did – that they preferred a central government rather than a worker party government. But the political distance in substance between the Progress Party and the Centre is still very large and essentially as before. Yes, as I made clear in the line that was before the Inge Wage took, it is the one that makes me not realistic that the Centre and the Advance Party should sit in the same government. The political distance is too high, and government work is therefore becoming ineffective. So in politics, there is no approach, but we appreciate the fact that the Progress Party prioritizes a non-socialist government over the Workers' Party, and in this way has acted neatly. In the case of the one to the right and to the left of each other, the leader of the Centre Party has expressed a fear that in some areas the Labour Party Government may involve a right triangle. There has not been a general statement, and it is true that the old block thinking and the right/left scale in many ways today are not the most accurate. But I'm recording that Inge Wohnning is still hanging in it, and that he thinks that you can place the parties unilaterally along a scale from right to left, while all the social research and political practice here in the hall shows that we have more lines of conflict than this one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e621	SV is concerned with climate, and I perceive that both the central government and the Christian People's Party were also. It was so important that the Bondevik government chose to put its position in place when the Workers' Party, in cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party, would force through old-fashioned and polluting gas power and prevent solutions to the environmental problems, which are, of course, very difficult to solve, because they are in their nature little populist. So it's not that easy to get it done, because it requires some victims. The second project that Bondevik has highlighted is the centre project, and there is a bigger problem for SV to follow. The centre project is, by its very nature, a minority project. They kind of make it almost a virtue of necessity to be in minority. An alternating majority as a method of governance is, in reality, a policy to allow a diverse environmentally unsolicited majority to govern changing governments, and that is serious. It's not control, which Bondevik was concerned about. Does Bondevik agree with SV on the need to build committed, green majority alliances, so that environmental policy can be managed, because it actually requires governance? Could it not be that Bondevik was in favour of seeking a majority, not for the sake of the majority, but for the sake of the environment? Because it is necessary that we do something about the major and heavy environmental problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e628	First about climate policy, as Karin Andersen mentioned. There's a lot of agreement between the center parts and SV, and we have an overall environmental movement behind us. It also says a little about the policy on which the Workers' Party joined with the Right when it came to the gas power plant, but even more so, and what was unacceptable to us, an opening so that one could weaken the pollution law in order to get to these polluting gas power plants. We have to respect that disagreement, but when an overall environmental movement goes against the Workers' Party and the Right's policy, it should be a reflection for the environmentalists that a majority is about to embark on a wrong course. If we could get green majority alliances, nothing would please the Christian People's Party and the Center Parties any more. In a number of both environmental and energy policy issues, we can see from the attitude of the Energy Communication that these can be built. The central government announced a sharp increase in the allocations for alternative energy sources and for energy savings, among others. financed by an increase in the electricity charge. This became the broad connection. And that's positive. But the problem with the treatment of the energy message was that there was another majority salliance that was anything but green, namely between the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party, to open up to highly polluting gas power plants, and that one could not wait either for a quota system that could prevent this from causing a net increase in pollution, or for new, modern technology. As far as government in general is concerned, yes, majority government, let me say a little ghostly, let me say that nothing had been better than if the centre had reached a majority, so that they could come back with a majority government. But I'd like to admit that it might be a little bit far ahead. And a majority government cannot be the goal in itself, if the tension within becomes too great.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e639	In this debate between the representative Bondevik and representatives from the right, when one attends the line changes, it reminds me a little about Tuppen and Lillemor: 'You get'ke play more in our farm! I'm "ke friends against you more." It's like what characterizes the debate. I think it would have been useful for the political debate to move forward and discuss and debate how to address the challenges ahead. The main basis for the government’s government’s government is the budget agreement for the current year. And I must say that it is reassuring to hear Mr Bondevik's reply that they are fully in line with that budget agreement. This budgetary agreement also has a separate point where it states that if any of the budgetary parties need to deal with matters of an economic nature, it shall be discussed with the other party. And that, I think, is an important point for both parties in the contractual relationship. My question about the representative, Mr Bondevik, is the proposal put forward today by the central parties of the representative, Mr Sponheim, which is entirely in line with that. As far as I can see, it is a tax-related proposal, which, as it is designed, also affects the income year 2000. So my question is: is it entirely in line with Bondevik's view of the content of this agreement, or is it more of an accident at work that it has been promoted in such a form? They also know that such a case will come to Stortinget, and it is of course important for the Workers' Party to bring it forward after proper, circumstantial and good proceedings, and not as a simple proposal made here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e646	Hill-Marta Solberg says it seems like the center and the right parts don't want to play with each other. First of all, this is all about a debate on why we got a new government, so it's not entirely uninteresting. It is actually a new government statement we are discussing today, and then looking at the background to how it came about, namely that the Labour Party and the Right acted together and voted down proposals that I asked cabinet questions on, of course, are not entirely uninteresting. I may not think the comparison with Tuppen and Lillemor is quite good, because for me, politics is not a game. It's a little bit more serious than that. But to go to the seriousness: the central parties will constructively cooperate with both the Government and the government party here in the Stortinget and with other parties in the Stortinget where this is natural from the point of view. We've underlined that, and that's how we're going to act. But we do not want to cooperate on a polluting gas power policy – to make it clear. With regard to the proposal by the representative Sponheim on behalf of the three centre parties today, there is no accident at work. It is entirely in line with what the former Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad announced. Yes, not only that, but I have seen that the new finance minister from the Workers' Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, has announced in the press that the new government will make such a proposal regarding the option tax. This I thought was entirely in line with the Labour Party's current policy, although not entirely in line with its previous one, and that the proposal could therefore perhaps be adopted by a large majority here in the main hall tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e655	Replication cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e658	I did not intend to say so many words about what led to the change of government, because, in my opinion, there was a matter of factual disagreement about an important energy policy choice. I think we should remind ourselves that such factual disagreements should we respect each other for. I find that the government chose to go on the basis of this disagreement. But I would like to stress that I respect that position, even though I feel that it was not necessary for me. That's what I was going to say about this, but after listening to both Carl I. Hagen and former Prime Minister Bondevik, a few comments are needed. Firstly, I am amazed that Carl I. Hagen is also using this occasion for new attacks on the Right. He is probably right that he did not spend more than 21⁄2 minutes on at least the first part of the attack. But I get to say it this way: I think he got quite a lot out of those minutes! There was nothing to say about the involvement in this attack. Furthermore, I want to tell Hagen that I think he should stay too good to give other parties opinions and interpret them according to what he thinks he is earned. I think that in politics we have to respect each other. And one of the first assumptions is that when someone on behalf of a party says what you want to achieve, I would have hoped that it was possible to respect it. But I must be allowed to see that it was not. Then I want to focus on what Bondevik just said, because I think he said something very right, and I think we should stress that. He said he didn't want to cooperate on a polluting gas power policy. I have also understood Bondevik in that way. But then it becomes a little strange that he can at the same time join everything Carl I. Hagen has said, because Carl I. Hagen said that the gas power plants would come, just you voted in favour of this proposal. He even used the wording that it didn't matter anything – otherwise the insinuation that I disagree with is that Bondevik asked cabinet questions on a proposal that didn't matter at all. But it is also based on that premise, which I also respect for Mr Hagen's view that CO2 is not pollution and that he could therefore vote in favour of a proposal that pollution should not be compromised. But I would say, after hearing the previous government parties in the previous debate, that they thought that CO2 in this context was to be considered pollution. So what they're doing here is entangled in two completely different lines of defence that are not related to each other except in the conclusion, that they both found that they could vote for Steensnæs' proposals. But to be honest, now we have to have some neatness in a thing like this. Now it must be possible to respect each other's motives. For the Right, it was important to get a pass for a position. We believed that it did not have to lead to a change of government, and that would not have happened at all if former Prime Minister Bondevik had said: we accept the majority's decision. And as I said, Carl I. Hagen has already said that the gas power plants would come anyway on the basis of the technology that is now available. So now, gentlemen Hagen and Bondevik have to choose whether to use Hagen's line of argument or Bondevik's line of reasoning. I respect both of them, but it's not possible to do it at the same time. There was so much I wanted to say about it. I think in many ways that, in respect of each other's positions, we should be able to put this a little behind us. Now there are questions about what the future requires of us. Our attitude towards the new government will be like that of the previous one. We will vote in accordance with our programme, with a view to achieving political results that are important to us. And I would like to remind you that there is a non-socialist majority in this Chamber. I added to my great joy that Johan J. Jakobsen in a debate in Holmgang also used the term non-socialism. I'm assuming that it gives expression to a certain reality. But that means, of course, that we'll vote for proposals that play on this side of the track. I think that the declaration was in many ways interesting in important areas, because it has important recognition of how and what reforms should be implemented in Norway. But I would like to stress that then it must not be a puzzle, then the real reform must be done on the part of the Workers' Party. We're expecting this, and of course we'll be there as they move in the right direction. And there are many important reforms that now need to be implemented. Not least, it is important to do something about county and county responsibilities, and it is important to put competition into practice and critically test our planning bureaucracy and the detailed management that we have in Norwegian society, not because competition outsourcing and red tape have their own value, but because it allows people to provide more and better public services. We simply have to ask ourselves: how much resources are we going to use in this country to manage ourselves? Would not these resources have been better applied to services to the population, to care for the elderly, to kindergartens, to school? What is therefore the challenge of the government of Stoltenberg is now to follow up on concrete proposals. Not least within the health care system, this is over-mature. We think it is important to move forward on the path that was pointed out by a non-socialist budget majority in 1998, with more input-driven funding and equality between private and public services, because the point is not who treats but that people get better. What is, however, one of the major issues is why the government’s desire for reform to signal through the declaration does not include as important a part of modern Norway as school and education. We believe that there is a need for quite major reforms in this area and have presented a 21-point programme to provide a roadmap for the reforms that should be implemented in the field of education and training. But if we do not now have ambitions to get one of the best education systems in the world — perhaps the best in the world — a country of Norway on the outskirts of Europe will be silent with a handicap in the harsh, rapid changes that are taking place outside the world. And if there's something that has to be more at our heart than anything in particular, it's just to make sure that as a nation, we're on the verge of taking the political choices that make us get hit. That's why I want to demand a significantly stronger bet. I understand why it's not there, because one of the problems is that the Workers' Party has just hung in – I kept saying – both the A4 School of the Workers' Party and the AUF, and that the Bondevik government did not take any particular settlement with that kind of thinking. But once you have started in one area, we hope that the will to reform will also go to another area. I have also noticed another area that has not received any particular attention, which I must warn that the Right is still going to have completely on top of its political agenda, and that is issues of transport. We believe that there is a connection between good communication and a value-creating business, because we are a country with great distances and scattered settlements. It makes us particularly dependent on good transport solutions. That is why we want an increased investment in road construction, and we note that the declaration is not about this. We believe that pursuing a policy for a profitable business is the very prerequisite for our welfare society to be a good and safe welfare society in the years to come. But then we also have to be willing to change in a number of areas, and that is why we also have to pursue a tax policy towards business that does not scare the jobs out of the country, but rather that we become an attractive country for more activity. Here it's never possible to rest on the laurels. In a world where competition develops rapidly and often unexpectedly, there is no alternative for us to be at the height of this development. But for a small country like Norway, it is very comforting to pick up the words that have been said, namely that the future does not belong to the largest, but to the fastest. And Norway must be among the fastest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e684	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e688	I must be allowed to say in the beginning that I have a certain understanding that the representative Petersen needs to say a few words about the interpretation of the vote in the gas power plant. The reality is that the proposal we voted for is that we believe that CO2 emissions will be reduced more quickly. So we voted to bring down the CO2 emission now. The government thought it was better to get it down later. We have to respect them for that, but they also have to respect us. I believe that there is a tendency for Jan Petersen to live with, as in the case of the resignation of the Willoch Government in 1986, that former Prime Minister Bondevik is likely to present his interpretation for as long as Willoch has been in charge of the petrol tax. He's still going on. My question goes more towards one of Petersen's important areas in all his speeches, also in the speech here today. It goes on education and the school sector. We agree that education is one of the most important means of developing the country. We have had some disagreements about how to establish the education sector. I would like to ask Petersen to explain how the school sector can be strengthened when, for example, the Right. in the budget agreement for last year's reduction of the local economy together with the centre parties and voted against the strengthening we were given the pressure on the centre parties this year. How can the school sector be strengthened if the money to the municipalities is to be reduced? I'm asking Petersen to answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e695	If Willoch can take care of the gas tax, I'll deal with the school questions. However, I think there is a considerable lesson for the Bondevik government in much, namely that how long you fight out old blows, you actually have to weigh on. I think that the line of reasoning that the former government parties and Carl I have put up in this discussion, in many ways, is to fight old battles. I agree with Dag Terje Andersen that the best environmental policy from Bondevik too would of course have been to say: yes, we accept the majority decision. For European emissions, it would have decreased, so it would be less emissions if the decision that was taken had been accepted. But what happened was that we got a proposal that introduced new ambiguities, which would lead to new postponements. Now, when we hear the very opposite interpretations of what this really is about, the very opposite of whether CO2 is pollution or not, it's clear that it's not a premium to guess that there would be new ambiguities. This is what some people need in order to take account of the subsequent positioning and debate. But I want to say that I feel absolutely certain that the environmental position at the right-hand side of the gas power issue was a correct position, and I think we need to have so much tidyness that we leave this debate as it is, namely a debate on the political road choices, where we have to respect each other. I noticed that Bondevik said he would not be involved in this gas power policy. That is a fair and fair position, but that is what is the matter, and do not try to make it any other way. This isn't to Dag Terje Andersen, but it's a little on my mind to say it, as the situation now is. Dag Terje Andersen asked about last year's budget – it goes a while back. Just let me remind you that the right of the current year's budget had a educational billion in our budget, as well as a number of reform proposals that do not cost money. They both strengthen the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e704	I find that the last reason for the right-wing leader's change of government and a workers' party government was that it was really to avoid a ambiguity. I have to say that then there is not much to do with the ordinary work of the Storting, if you want a government change every time there is a proposal that may involve a ambiguity. Then it becomes relatively frequent. But the official reason is that the Right voted against a proposal that the pollution law should not be weakened as an environmental policy instrument, and for a change of government, in order to prevent a ambiguity. So I'll read a little bit from the Evening Post today: «The editor of the Sign of Time, Henrik Syse, means Right and Kr.F. should constitute a common government option. He thinks it's natural for Kjell Magne Bondevik to become a prime minister candidate. In the last issue of the Right’s Ideological Journal, Syse writes very critically that the Right’s vote in the gas power case helped to give the country an Ap. government. Now Syse, the son of Right's last Prime Minister, Jan P. Syse, believes that the party must be willing to take self-criticism in a fair manner, and think constructively in the future. – Christian People’s Party is a party that has a sense of forgiveness, and that can be asked. It shall be forgiveness to be forgiven for a repentant sin, says Syse." Will the Right follow Henrik Syse's request to appear as a repentant sinner and apologize? That's the one question. He obviously has the same explanation that both Bondevik and I have. Besides, Bondevik didn't say he agreed with everything Carl I. Hagen had said. He said he was “mainly” in agreement with Carl I. Hagen – what I said today, and not what Petersen referred to, from March 9. My concrete, last question: When the Right looks ahead, is it the Right's goal to be part of a majority government after the next election, or is it about any minority coalition? Is there a majority of Right wants, or doesn't it even matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e720	I think there's an important thing about this line, and that's that Carl I. Hagen obviously doesn't make any attempt to figure out what he and Bondevik really agree with, and what they don't agree with. I understand it’s “mainly” – what it has to be. I guess that illustrates a little bit of the point, that here you have two completely different assumptions about the gas power issue, you have completely different opinions about whether CO2 is pollution or not, and both are honest, proper, respectable positions. The problem is when you start manoeuvring with proposals in the Stortinget. That's why I said that we should respect each other because we have positions that are very different, with different consequences, and not try these ambiguities, which not least Hagen is so excited about now. I respect Bondevik for choosing to go because he would not accept what he himself called ‘polluting gas power policy’. But that's what's essentially, and not all of these other attempts at maneuvering. I'm a little unhappy that this is the main thing in the debate, too, because I think the point now is to look forward and try to build some bridges. I'm going to try not to spend as much as 2 and 1/2 minutes on the Progress Party on other occasions, because I don't think we're going to put the emphasis on it now in the first place. When it comes to the question of repentant sinners, I think Hagen was a little excited about the article, because I think Syse has more repentant sinners on the agenda than exactly Right. I think he speaks for the benefit of many people who should talk together, and I have said that I think that everyone who belongs to non-socialist parties should start with it, and then you get to see exactly where it leads us. I think we can learn from much of the debate that has so far been, how many react to some of the advances that have emerged. And all right, then I think we should just start talking and see where it leads us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e729	It's a fact that the Right vote has given us a workers' party government. After former Prime Minister Bondevik's cabinet question, Petersen's representative knew that would be the consequence. The Right Party has come up with a draft new principal programme that in some areas strengthens the value profile and the ideological foundation of the Right. This is interesting in many areas, seen from the Christian People's Party's side. The government statement that we are discussing today has received positive mention from the Right, although it lacks important ideological foundations. It does not refer to family policy, it does not refer to church, it is weak in relation to the third sector, and the areas that Petersen has spoken about so positively, the renewal of the Municipality of Norway, etc., were also in the central government's programme. From that point of view, I am surprised that the representative Petersen has not, on an ideological basis, found any greater reason to mention the government statement we are discussing today. And as parliamentary leader in the Christian People's Party and Prime Minister's candidate for the Central Party today has presented a point-by-point programme, a future programme on how a possible new central government will operate, I will now allow the representative Petersen to talk about the future and not talk more about the past, even if the consequences are clear. Is Petersen more united in the programme presented today by the representative Bondevik, and would he rather support a central government based on non-socialism than a worker party government, or is it so that it is more convenient for a worker party government to appear better to the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e736	I think it was very nice what Lilletun said about our principal program. I also think he's right that he'll find a good part of the principal program that he'll feel close to. I share his view that there are points in the government's statement that should have been written differently. I think I said that, among other things. in the debate that took place at NRK2 yesterday, where Mr Bondevik highlighted the same points. Not least when we know that family policy is in the middle of the political shot line, I think it's important to say that I believe there is a Christian People's Party and the Right can build bridges between each other. I'm not quite sure how to perceive the invitation from Lilletun. It could, of course, be perceived as some kind of invitation to be vocal. I'm assuming that's not what he was after, but that it was an expression of a real willingness to talk together about politics and see what we could figure out. That's what I've been saying in the last fourteen days and I've had a good time saying, so I'm a little careful with it right now. But if that's such an invitation, I'm glad of it, because I think it's important that we have a cooperation that is based on the non-socialist majority that exists in the Storting. Then I just want to add that I believe that the government of Bondevik, if it first believed that it could accept gas power plants – as many clearly believe it could – of course had not had to go, but I respect the choice that was made. I also want to explain myself a little bit about the little cooperation promotion I came along with, as a good deal has responded to it. It was actually inspired by Carl I. Hagen, who when the Willoch government left the ship in 1986 said exactly the same thing, but from the Greatness Chair. But ‘it was then and it was now’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e747	I'm going to reassure Jan Petersen that I don't intend to raise the question again about Right-wing voting, but rather talk about another matter that has gone a lot of rounds on already, namely about the political landscape and about the cooperation situation in the Stortinget. Let me first point out that we in the Center Party are very pleased that the center and the center option now appear as the alternative to the sitting government. So far in the debate we have recorded that Carl I. Hagen in reply to a reply from Anne Enger Lahnstein made it clear – no great sensation perhaps – that the political distance between the Center Party and the Advance Party is too great to think of any government cooperation that way, and I also perceived Kjell Magne Bondevik as such in the line exchange after his post that neither the other central parties regard it as topical. Then we see that the relationship between the Right Party and the Advance Party seems a little bit strenuous, to say it carefully, and this means in some ways a further clarification that today it is the center option that is the alternative to the Workers Party. It has also been underlined by the centre parties in the debate. Many suggest that this is likely to be the situation after the 2001 elections. And then it'll be interesting to hear how Right and Jan Petersen will act in such a situation. Will the Right then do as they did on March 9th, namely prefer a workers' party government, or will the Right in this situation be able to choose the center over the Workers' Party? I am aware that this is no choice on the top shelf for the Right, but because the Right has so strongly stressed that it did not want to trap the Bondevik administration, it is nevertheless interesting to hear what Jan Petersen answers this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e754	I'm going to hear the part of Jakobsen's posts that obviously goes on that he wants to have the Right as voicemail, and rather say that I think we in Norwegian politics now have to show some ability to stretch hands beyond borders. I would like to remind you that when the Right was called out as the winner of the election last fall – and we did – I suggested in quite careful, open order that I thought we should sit down with political talks to see which way it led us. And I even thought that the government parties should be able to choose the time and place for such things – because I understood their situation. It was refused. I think that's sad, but if Jacobsen is going back to following some kind of voice control strategy towards us, I have to say I think he's on the wrong track. Now, as I said, we have to be able to stretch out our hands and see if we can find broader solutions, because no matter how pleased the Bondevik government was with its efforts, it is clear that there is no luck with such narrow governments. Then my position is simply that I didn't want any work party government, I don't want any work party government. I did not point that way either, it was Bondevik who pointed out Stoltenberg. And that's okay, but he did it. So I say we should get together and see if it's possible to figure something out. Now it hasn't been particularly popular in the last 14 days. I don't think that's more wrong for that reason, actually because we have a non-socialist majority. I accept that, but we have to let it go for a while. Now the Stoltenberg government has come. We're going to produce political results, and then I'm going to hope that we can do our best to build bridges until 2001. But it didn't seem like there was any bridge Jacobsen was looking for. I understand that quite psychologically, but perhaps it's a hope to be able to detonate borders.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e761	SV and Right disagree on some key issues of Norwegian policy. Among other things, SV wants to strengthen the public sector and improve the distribution of society. So there we disagree. However, SV also wants to look at the organisation of the public sector, because it is clear that those who strongly defend a large public sector must also be critically tuned when the money is not used properly or there are shortcomings or rigid forms of organisation. We are concerned with better services, less self-payment and not least a better bet in school. But in his post, Jan Petersen from the Right says that as a justification for entering into a privatisation reorganization as a method, they want to strengthen e.g.. the school sector. But it's a little hard to understand that this with privatisation and outsourcing is not an ideological starting point in the Right, the sail of Jan Petersen is now trying to say it. He says, among other things: that there is better money for school, kindergarten and health than for administration. Yeah, I think everyone agrees. It's better to spend money on services. But why is it better if more of the money we put into the public sector goes to private profit, than that we use it for school, kindergarten and health care? For this will necessarily result if large sections of public activities are to be exposed to competition. I assume that when the Right is talking about this, it is not just talking about non-governmental organisations that have contributed heavily and well to healthcare and care services in Norway, without having a profit motive. What the right is thinking about is, well, there are private companies that are going to go in and make money, and that means that we're using some of the badly needed heads that could go to services, to something else. So if not privatisation is the goal, why not enter into a debate on reforms without having the main outsourcing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e766	Now my economic argument was not just a question of privatisation and service outsourcing. It was not least a question of how many levels of government we're going to have in this country, that is, how much money we're going to spend on having a municipal level if we could make it easier. How much money are we going to spend on planning up and down and in if we could leave a lot that this planning work is? How much money are we going to spend on administering legislation that goes to work in detail in managing the everyday lives of both businesses and individuals? Here, there are quite considerable resources, so my question is not least about this kind of thing. That's where I think the heavy, difficult decisions are going to be made. I don't think you're going anywhere if you're not willing to go in and slim along these lines. That's the issue of service outsourcing. There it seems that Karin Andersen is of the opinion that private solutions must be more expensive. My question is, why? – Simply because one of the most important things is just getting a dynamic that makes things easier, better than what you've done in the past, and it's going to get your expenses down. That is why the private capitalist system has been totally unsurpassed in the world in terms of providing well-being for those living within such political systems. It has proved to be the most efficient system available. To illustrate: when many hospitals, for example: Now using private laundry, it's because there's going to be much more efficient services of it, but there's of course a profit motive in the laundry business. But anyway, the total that government pays is going to be lower than before. When that total gets lower, it turns out that we're able to make a reasonable use of the dynamics of the private economy, but that's not easy for socialists to accept. I get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e773	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e777	The declaration of accession presented by Prime Minister Stoltenberg yesterday was very general, so in general that most people can join the main lines of what was said. It will only be interesting when the concrete proposals come forward, and in practical policy we will see what the Government will do. We have had a taste of this in the form of some statements from some specialist councils. The health sector is to be modernised, says the Minister of Health, who, according to NTB, believes that the quality of health services and the coverage of needs is the most important, not whether the services are provided by the public or by the private. The central government of the state councils Høybräten and Kleppa have done an impressive job of modernising the health and social sector. A number of messages and propositions have been processed and presented to Stortinget. We will continue to modernise the health and social sector by improving the quality of public services, rather than ‘outsource’ tasks for private individuals, in the belief that as a law of nature they will always provide better services than public services. The centre party is sure that public employees can provide as good services as private ones. Thus, it is not said that we are opponents of private solutions. We will continue to facilitate voluntary and non-profit initiatives in the health and social sector. The centre government has submitted Ot.prp. No 25 for 1999-2000 on alternative forms of organisation for county hospitals, such as: opens up the organisation of county hospitals as independent legal entities. The initiative was taken to prevent some county municipalities from acquiring the form of a limited liability company as an organisational form. I would challenge the Workers' Party at this point: Is it in the Workers' Party's modernisation of the health and social sector that the party will go beyond the central government on this issue? So a few more statements from the government councils of Stoltenberg that create uncertainty about what you want: According to VG, the head of the Labour Party, Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland, will be giving gas in the EU debate and has good hope that the people will turn from no to yes during the next downturn. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs believes that there is a need for a strong reduction in the number of counties. The sum of these points – privatisation of health services, increased adaptation to the EU and reduction in elected bodies – does not represent modernisation, but is a purely right-wing proposal. Not so remarkable then that the most satisfied faces yesterday were to look on the right side. Petersen said to the NRK that it would be natural to lean to the Right, while Hagen added in a comment: "This can be very good." After these initial remarks, the Centre appears as the real government option for the Workers' Party. This is not least the case in environmental policy. Prime Minister Stoltenberg said in the Declaration of Accession that ‘Norway should be a leading country in environmental policy.’ What does Stoltenberg mean by that? A priority country must be innovative and progressive. But what kind of line has the Workers' Party laid down on? The Workers' Party has come to power with the help of the Right after having imposed the central government on the construction of highly polluting gas power stations, after the Workers' Party, together with the Right, voted against a proposal not to weaken the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument. In the struggle for government, the environment was lost. At the same time, the debate on the new "Economic Policy" of the Labour Party showed: The working party has disregarded the fact that the precautionary principle applies in environmental policy. The working party has disregarded the polluter-pays principle. The Labour Party has shifted from national personal responsibility to market-based solutions with only assumed regional effects. We know that emissions will increase, the Workers' Party only assumes that there will be regional reductions. It is to be regretted that the party whose former Prime Minister launched the concept of sustainable development is now distancing itself from the content of the term and weakening Norway’s reputation as an environmental policy country. The Workers' Party shall agree to its environmental policy with the Progress Party and the Right. The central government has gained support for its position on the gas power issue of an overall environmental movement — and on the Labour Party’s own youth organisation, the AUF. This is not an extraordinary alliance. We've seen it a lot before: in the Decision on the extension of Upper Otta in the Decision on the construction of shooting grounds in the East and now, at the latest, in the Decision on the construction of gas-fired power stations Carefully, the Labour Party has a long way to go before any credibility in environmental policy can be claimed. The Prime Minister invited for broad cooperation and will seek to obtain a majority of parties that will contribute to good and convergent solutions for the country. The centre party and centre will be constructive in the opposition – vote for what we are for and seek majority for a policy that goes our way. I have often said that the best solutions in some key policy areas are at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre. This is the case in the distribution policy, partly in district policy and far-reaching in the design of the public sector, in order to give some examples. The Prime Minister said in the Declaration of Accession that the Government will start to assess the division of labour between levels of government. I appreciate the fact that the Workers' Party is following up the work that the central government has started in this area. The interesting thing in this review will be in which direction the Government wants this work to go. I have noticed that the head of the Task Distribution Committee in today's edition of the Evening Post does not give his support to the Prime Minister's statement that there is duplication of effort in the counties. But we need a clean-up in our responsibilities. This clean-up must aim at increasing the popular governance of the regional level of the administration, while at the same time decentralising tasks as far as possible, not being publicised. I am uncertain whether it is in this direction that the Labour Party intends to go. According to a statement by Prime Minister Stoltenberg to the Economic and Social Committee on 18 March, the Minister of Health Tore Tønne will play a central role in the modernisation of the public sector. It says that Tønne impressed Stoltenberg when he managed to transfer the county councils' food development departments to SND. I agree with the Prime Minister that modernisation of the public sector is necessary. I agree that it is necessary to: reduce the form field to strengthen local democracy – it is the one who wears the shoe, who knows best where it presses eliminate possible duplications between different levels of government decentralise power to a greater extent, including to the individual school, to the individual hospital and to the individual elderly institution. The Prime Minister said in his Declaration of Accession, ‘Strength State governance is no automatic guarantee of equivalent offers.’ He also said, ‘Detail management needs to be reduced.’ I agree with this. But what will the Government really do when governmentization of industrial development is used as an example of the successful conversion of the county council – that is, the exact opposite of what the prime minister says in his declaration of accession? The central government was running the biggest district policy reverse operation ever. The ambition was to reverse the flow of movements — not by coercion, to which some would have it, but by facilitating freedom of choice, giving opportunities to realise the great potential of development that lies in District Norway, not least in the fisheries and aquaculture industry, which has grown from being a highly subsidised industry in 25 to 30 years to becoming Norway’s second largest export industry with an export value of more than DKK 30 billion in 1999. In this area, we have natural advantages, and opportunities for growth are great – not least within farming. The central government therefore chose marine research as one of Norway’s priority areas of activity. Coast Norway will be strong in future Norway, and I therefore allow myself to present proposal No. 2, which reads: ‘The Government requests the submission of a valuation programme for the aquaculture industry.’ A crucial element in the work on new district policies is the commitment of the Centre Party to call ‘digital all-man rights’ – a commitment to new technologies in the development of both new and old industries, thus ensuring equal opportunities for all to take part in empowerment where new technologies will play a central role, and in particular, provide a better service provision, such as: through the use of telemedicine, with which the central government was well-informed. In relation to all these points, the development of broadband networks across the country is a crucial effort. I am pleased that the Prime Minister mentioned this point in his statement. The centre party, if the Labour Party will support us and continue the work we have started, will also vote here for what we are in favour of. There was one important area that surprised me that the Prime Minister did not mention in his Declaration of Accession: the child and young people's growing-up environment. We are in a situation where young people are increasingly influenced by different parts of society, where violence and crime are increasing, where drug abuse and drug abuse are at all rates increasing. In this area, we are facing major challenges. We need to make a transition from the repair society to the prevention community, where we are increasingly using resources, both human and economic, to facilitate young people and children to avoid the worst failures. We need to facilitate prevention in relation to parents’ opportunities to participate in growing-up conditions, participate in youth work, provide room for voluntary organisations to work in this important area in a way that enables us to move from the repair society to the prevention society. This important area was not affected by the Prime Minister's declaration of accession, and I expect the Workers' Party to pursue a policy in this area as well. In that case, it will receive the support of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e893	Sir. The Enoch has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e898	The government’s declaration of Stoltenberg contains many centre-cuts, at least center-closed, policy areas, even though the representative, Enoxsen, now in his post, did not exactly focus on it. It is expressed the will to strengthen and thus renew the public sector, and not least to increase the revenues of municipalities. Fortunately, through the budget agreement with the central parties, the Workers' Party was last reaped for an improvement in the finances of the municipalities. But it is a fact that in the division of labour between state, municipalities and county municipalities there are overlapping responsibilities and some double bureaucracy that now needs to be cleaned up. It is also a fact that we already have a large private element in the healthcare system, and neither the Center Party and the representative of Enoxsen say that we are opposed to private solutions. The Workers' Party and the Centre have traditionally had a parallel view of the public sector and the fulfilment of welfare tasks. But now I'm going to use my privilege to challenge the representative of Enoxen to the following: Will he and the Central Party to get more funding for the public service offer cooperate with the Workers' Party in order to clear up the responsibilities between the different levels of government? Secondly, what solutions does former Minister of State Enoxsen see to it that the debt burden of the municipalities must be remedied?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e907	The answer is yes, we will work together to find solutions that are for the benefit of the citizens of the country's municipalities, which will ensure that the public sector provides better services in all areas. Because we are facing quite major challenges, both in the health sector, in the care of the elderly, in the school sector. With regard to the vast majority of public tasks today, we have major challenges ahead of us. It is simply because we, as citizens of this country, have great expectations of what the public is going to do – we have ever-increasing expectations of this. In the 1990s, more reforms have been carried out than ever before: the PU reform, which was justly adopted at the end of the 1980s, but how much of the implementation took place in the 1990s, the 6-year-old reform, large kindergarten expansion, reform 94, the ageing effort, health reforms, etc. All of this is the municipalities and county councils that have been responsible for implementation. I have said in the past that it is necessary to increase the income of municipalities in the future. In particular, it is necessary to increase the free income of municipalities, so that municipalities can decide more on how to use the money. Because I believe that knowledge is somewhat equally distributed, and I think that those who sit almost on the problems to be solved are the ones who are best able to see how it should be done. I am fundamentally convinced of that. That is why I disagree with a development that is moving towards more state governance. That's where I'm not sure what the government wants. When the Prime Minister uses Tore Tønne's conversion of SND and the industrial work in the county municipality by moving it from the regional level of government to the state level, as an example of the successful conversion of the county municipality, it is in my opinion to go in the wrong direction. We don't want to go in that direction. We want to decentralize power to the municipalities, decentralize tasks to the municipalities and county councils, and not least clean up the double-worked state and county municipal sector between.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e914	The government’s statement also mentions Norwegian agriculture, the desire to develop modern agriculture and reasonable food prices. It is directly in line with what agricultural policy spokesman Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has previously said, that prices of Norwegian agricultural products should be reduced by 15 pst. - 20 pst. Food shall be produced on a reduced and more efficient basis and agricultural transfers shall also be reduced. This means that there is a significant political majority in this Chamber who want to modernise Norwegian agricultural policy by liberalising and improving efficiency. That means that there's a majority who don't want to get out of reality, but sees that we're dependent on international agreements, among other things. The WTO agreement, which will mean a reduction in customs-based protection in the long term. And the EU will follow suit. In a few years’ time, the EU will include a number of Eastern European countries and millions of new farmers. Then, too, the EU becomes dependent on changing its agricultural policy, reducing its subsidies, because today they have a strong overproduction of all traditional food products, as Norway has, and we will have a trend at world market prices. But the centre party has always been a brake block in this development. It's been the easiest way to let things go like before. And when it becomes a common accepted policy, the results will in the long term be negative as a whole – as the situation we are up to now. So my question to Mr Enoksen's representative is: will the Centre contribute to the modernisation of Norwegian agricultural policy through rationalisation, efficiency and liberalisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e922	The answer to that question is no, and I have problems imagining that the new Minister of Agriculture intends to go in the direction that the representative Hedstrøm now describes. In that case, we have found another area where it would be problematic to cooperate between the centre and the new government, and in that case the new government must seek support from the Progress Party and the Right. Let's hope that we can avoid such a development, because I'm fundamentally convinced that some of the advantages of Norwegian agriculture are that we have a small-scale agriculture that produces safe and good food at a reasonable cost. We have never spent less of our income on food than we do today. The central government has provided a major communication on agricultural policy that gives rise to two interventions. Firstly, through a tax approach, we have proposed that food prices should be reduced. Secondly, the central government intended to present a VAT reform that would reduce food prices and thus reduce food prices, which would bring them down to the level of our nearest neighbouring country, among others. Sweden. I have recorded that the Labour Party government probably does not intend to follow up this VAT reform. It will in that case I think is bad if that's the case, because I think it might be a completely necessary grip to do. We're going to stick to the small-scale agriculture we have. We're going to develop small-scale agriculture further and take care of the benefits of producing food in the way that we've traditionally done here to land, and that we're going to do in the future. Industrial agriculture with the problems we have seen in many European countries in recent times, with outbreaks of disease with the consequences it has for public health, is not what we have done, and it is a development that the centre party will not contribute to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e933	There is at least one similarity between the government of Stoltenberg’s government statement and the statements by the representative of Enoxsen: none of them mentioned a word on transport. There are many areas where the Centre Party and the Right disagree with the modernisation of the Norwegian state and Norway, but in fact it was in the last period that we at least agreed on one area, and that was the significance of the movement for District Norway. So it's right to say that it has the center government forgotten the page. But it is a hope when they come out of the government offices, that they can return to the good path and see the importance of transportation. But there are two areas that I would like to address, and that is related to the transport costs in District Norway. It's absolutely amazing that the Center Party, which wants to call itself a district friendly party, has been involved in this famous car diesel tax. Here I have a big pile of letters from individual communities, individuals and communities around Norway that these days are in danger of losing part of their ferry offer, the first ferry in the morning and the last night. There are many societies that are totally dependent on just such communication. And I'm going to think that the representative Enoch has been given exactly the same requests. I think he understands the problem this is in District Norway. People who depend on getting to work, and the business community who depend on getting their goods, actually meet a ferry offer that has been reduced. Speedboats are notified that they will not get departures etc. And my question to Enoksen and the Center Party is brief and correct: will they join in correcting this error in the revised national budget, so that District Norway gets the communication they are legally entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e940	I agree with the representative of Nilsen that good infrastructure and good communications are essential for the development of district Norway. Therefore, according to one of the points referred to by the representative Mr Bondevik in his statement, the Centre also intends, in the future, to focus on improving the standard of the national and county road network, precisely because this, together with the investment in some other infrastructure areas, is absolutely crucial for ensuring the development of district Norway. The economy depends on the fastest possible delivery of the goods, and the local population depends on the provision of good transport services to enable these communities to develop. I pointed out in one area, a new area, where I think it is absolutely essential that we bet heavily in the future, and there is a commitment to digital infrastructure in order to meet the new knowledge society and meet the challenges that lie here. It is probably not possible to get into all areas in ten minutes, but I have also, like the representative Nilsen, received many letters from people who did not want the strong increase in diesel taxes that came in connection with the budget for the current year. It should be noted that that increase in fees was primarily an environmental measure, where the increase in fees was not applied to environmental diesel but to ordinary diesel. This increase in fees has now led to the fact that, in a shorter time than foreseen, we have been able to introduce environmentally friendly diesel in the vast majority of oil companies and thus reduce pollution. This charging system works in such a way that when you raise charges to use it as an environmental policy instrument, it actually works as intended. But as former Minister of Finance Restad had already announced and had had several meetings with the truck industry on: we intend to look at the overall consequences of the tax increase that came. Of course, we stand by that, but I will not foreshadow what we will do in relation to the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e947	SV shares the description and criticism of the Labour Party's policy. SV also shares the fear expressed by the Centre Party, inter alia: in the United Nations on Friday, a right-wing turn of Norwegian policy with the Labour Party at the rudder, not least before the area related to district, distribution and EU policies. The question is how to avoid this right turn, which Enoxsen is also concerned about. For Enoxen, participation in a government that had as its political objective the search for cooperation in different directions. Over the course of two years, Ein has now cooperated with the Right and the Progress Party in District and Distribution Policy. There can hardly be any less right-wing rotation of such a policy, a policy that has contributed to weakening the local economy, weakening the potential of municipalities to pursue offensive school policies, for example. The centre party and SV have a very large number of points of view – at least if you look at the parties' programs, which I thought you would. This applies to rural policy, distribution policy, EU policy and ownership issues. In general, there is a lot of area where the Center Party and SV are united, and about which it should be possible to cooperate, just to avoid a right turn. SV has great respect for the fact that the center party wants to continue as its own coalition at the next choice. But the issue of Enoxsen is: how do you avoid getting a right turn – in EU policy, in environmental policy and in distribution policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e956	Of course, it could be tempting to say that the best way to avoid such a bias in politics is to give us greater support in elections. When we cooperated with the Right and the Advance Party in the first two budgetary proceedings, it was because for two years the Labour Party chose to sit on the sideline and was not willing to cooperate. That's not only why, but also because we've said that we work together on the solutions that are closest to us in every context. I have also registered that the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, says that the reason they chose to cooperate on the year's budget was not that they had put the struggle for cash support dead, but it was the first step on the way back to government power – because it was seen that this way you could bind the center to itself. I find it difficult to believe that this should really be the case, because in that case it is a very bad strategy in relation to future cooperation. I'm firmly convinced of what I've said, that in a lot of areas, the best solutions lie at the intersection of the working party and the center. In other areas, it is natural for us to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party. This will also be the case in the future, because we have different views on a number of areas, such as: ownership – and as the Defense, where we have a widely different view of what SV stands for, to take one example. I have not said that the Workers' Party's government statement is a right triangle on a general basis. On the contrary, in very many areas of the Declaration of Accession, a policy close to the centre stands for and where it will be possible for us to find good solutions in common. In some areas, however, as I sketched in my main post, I fear that we will see a right triangle and a closer cooperation between the Workers' Party and the right parties. I hope that we can avoid that by being constructive and by calling for cooperation. We don't intend to pursue obstruction policies or sit on the sidelines, but on the contrary, to find solutions for what we stand for, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e968	One might wish that politics was an unknown sum of many individual decisions. Smart media lookups can often also give the impression that this is the case. A few years of participation in the financial committee here in Stortinget has taught me that those dreams that do not fit within the sound financial framework provided by the operation of Norway remain dreams. The center party, like the Workers' Party, is based on a distribution of resources and value creation where people live. A good rural policy and strong municipalities are therefore essential. It will be exciting to meet Enoxen in the Financial Committee. Compromises can't build bridges over what you essentially disagree with, but it gives opportunities where you have common goals. As we worked for the budgetary agreement with the Bondevik Government, because it provided a good budget, this will naturally be the basis for the revised national budget in May. Will the Enoch on behalf of the Center Party now do the same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e977	To return: I also look forward to meeting the representative of Dalheim in the Financial Committee, it may be both pleasant and interesting. I look forward to that work. Of course, with regard to the revised national budget, it is impossible to advance anything. What's going to be crucial to how we handle the revised national budget is, of course, what the government is going to present to the Stortinget. I have recorded that in some areas there have been signs of changes, and in some areas perhaps most necessary changes. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the representatives of Dalheim and the Workers' Party for helping the central government to join the 99,6 p.m. of the budget submitted. So we have achieved the most important of what we have presented in the budget, and we are in favour of that, of course. However, changes that have to be made beyond this will have to be treated as changes. So to an area that Dalheim's representative mentioned, the municipal economy. I have said in many respects in the past that the year 2000 will be a particularly challenging year for the municipal sector. We know that the deficit in 1999 was high. This was primarily due to significant investments, including: related to the elderly reform. But I would like to remind you that when the government of Jagland chose to leave, it was not only because of 36,9, it was also because – as the representative of Jagland at the time said in the accession debate when the Bondevik government was established – the other parties' surrender in relation to public expenditure. It was specifically targeted at the 5 billion that the Centre Party, among others. contributed to an increase in the income of municipalities in 1997, with the maximum necessary increases in revenue at that time. I also look forward to seeing what kind of proposal this government will make in relation to improving the conditions of the municipalities, in line with what several of the members of the government have signaled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e988	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e991	We are now in a political situation where Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg takes over where Jagland left off – and to the extent that Bondevik left off – without a parliamentary basis from a majority of the parties in Stortinget. We will continue – at least as far as it looks – to have a minority government until 2001 that will seek support from the Storting on a case-by-case basis. It may appear as if last week before the government change: the Labour Party cooperated with the Advance Party on Tuesday and with the Right on Thursday, and at the bottom there was a budgetary settlement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party. These were political exercises of which the Bondevik government did a virtue. They did a virtue that they would have an alternate majority in Stortinget. But the result was that the Right Party and the Advance Party got significantly more political influence than they needed and should have had. Now we are in the situation that the Labour Party also reserves the right to apply for a majority with the Right and/or Advance Party in environmental policy, in European policy and perhaps in several other cases. This situation will mean that it is unclear to the voters which majority it is responsible for. The freedom claimed by the Workers' Party today may become difficult to bear when the next decision is approaching. This is triggered by a political situation, but it is also a matter of choice, and there is a situation that gives the same freedom to all other parties in the Stortinget. The bourgeois parties have a majority, around the Workers' Party, around the Government, if all the parties from the Advance Party to the Center Party come together. They are free to create a majority outside the Government. SV has not participated in any political discussions or negotiations with the Workers' Party in the context of the government crisis that occurred. I guess it doesn't have any other parties either. That means that SV is also free and not part of a parliamentary basis for a workers' party government. But on the SV side, we believe that for the SV and for everyone else who believes political governance is important, this is a situation of political confusion, where the Stortinge appears more and more like a gambling hall, which threatens the belief in democracy, that it benefits. It is a political situation in which the Progress Party and the Right are able to cope to the extent that they want more market solutions – the more hopeless the policy becomes, the greater the call for market solutions – while we who want to control market forces, we who want to find a political space for action, depend on policies being pursued in such a way that the voters have faith in what they are doing. This is the background – point 1 – for SV to want a majority constellation in Norwegian policy. But it's not just that any majority would create order and prevent chaos. Of course, we are most concerned with the political direction. It is clear that a political majority with significant influence from the Right and the Advance Party will lead to chaos in the municipalities because they are so misguided that they cannot solve all the tasks they should have done. This will lead to chaos in environmental policy – because it is a foreign word, because the Progress Party is illiterate in environmental policy. Therefore, it is important not only to want a majority constellation that can sort of clean up the political landscape, but also an alliance towards SV, an alliance that includes one or more centre parties, the Workers' Party and SV. Our challenge to the government of Stoltenberg is that the solutions to the headlines that the Prime Minister came up with yesterday, of which SV agreed with many, are on the left side and not on the right side of Norwegian policy. The Prime Minister said: ‘People’s work, knowledge and creativity are Norway’s real national wealth. But competence will certainly be at the center. Knowledge and ideas will be our main capital.» Well said! However, following such approaches, SV expects a systematic commitment to school and education. The warning of such a reform did not come yesterday. Primary's worried. The situation in primary school worries us, especially the situation in secondary school. In connection with the recruitment message, the Workers' Party was involved in many things that SV has fought for for years in Stortinget. The evening post or the Workers' Party – I don't know who – calculated the costs from the reforms and efforts announced by the Workers' Party to approx. SEK 1.5 billion per year. years. It's a relatively modest bet, but it's at least a start. What this government lacks, and as many labor party governments have had in the past, is the warning of one major reform, which the people can hide behind, an invitation to lift in flocks and get something important. In the school area, we need such a reform. In the field of education, voters need such a challenge. In the school area, the bulk of population needs a challenge to be involved and bet on this. In SV we are very concerned about the standard gap that very many children, parents and grandparents experience every day between the state of public school and what you are used to at home. We believe that if the standard gap is not filled in gradually, with regard to the quality of school and equipment at school, if the schools are in the back streets and are not as bright as the shopping malls, many will want to spend their own money in private school. That's why we want a public school that most of us enthusiastically end up about, about which we send our children with joy every day, because we know that they bloom and grow. This is the fundamental challenge that I see as the whole Stortinget – but especially the Government and the left-hand side – has. That means two things, according to SV's point of view. It means upgrading equipment, recruiting teachers, etc., but it also means a change in content and working methods. The school reforms that have taken place in recent years, perhaps with Hernes as the main reformer, have been in a technocratic tradition. They've been too square and too centrally directed. It has also meant that an academic learning tradition has in many ways gained greater and greater insight into school, while a practical approach to theory, which many of us prefer, and which makes the theory simpler, has come too much into the background – not in what is in the curriculum, which stands out very well, but in what becomes reality. We want a multiplicity of schools where you take away education from private schools into public schools and give people the opportunity to influence their own everyday school life. Today, it is too much that diagnosis and problems have to be found to trigger some extra resources and resources in school. We believe that labels are too much placed on children and too much problem-oriented about being solution-oriented. When there are 15 experts around a table to discuss one child’s situation, we think that there is a lot of wasted time, and that it may seem alien to the parents sitting there – and the child is not there. That's why we have to do both: both to renovate the school and to give each school greater freedom to design pedagogics based on the individuals that children actually are. The right-hand side has no solutions to this. Right-wing school policy means more centralization, more testing, getting children in, checking what they can do when they're seven years old, eight years old and nine years old, putting them in tables and sending messages home. That means you're starting from giving kids more of what they can't. Our idea is that children grow if they get maximum backing on what they can, because it's when you feel that a master is something that you're also susceptible to new knowledge. This is the SV's first challenge to the new government: we need a comprehensive school reform both in terms of resources and content and the decentralisation of power and authority. Challenge No. 2 is the conversion of the public sector. The Prime Minister said: ‘In order to ensure the well-being of the public sector, it is necessary to strengthen the public sector. That is why it must be renewed. ...renewal requires reinvigoration. ... Double red tape does not result in double well-being.’ Well said! But our second challenge to the Workers' Party is: Park all thoughts of privatisation and commercialisation of the public sector on the political sideline where it belongs, and start dialogue with those who work in the public sector, with SV, with all those who depend on services and want to influence their own community environment, on how to develop the public sector. Privatisation is not modernisation. The Norwegian welfare state has a relatively short history, but it is built in the public sector because the privatised solutions were insufficient – insufficient to ensure the services we wanted, insufficient to ensure all access to services. There's no reason for anyone to be seduced by the fact that it's particularly modern to go back to that thinking. There's no reason at all to discuss this and let the right-hand side premise. We need to develop a public sector that is such that we want to use the services it has to offer with a heart attack. It is simply that privatisation and commercialisation are leading to an increase in bureaucracy in municipalities, which needs to determine what kind of services they are going to buy from a commercial enterprise that can provide services. This means that services are more fragmented compared to those that receive them. It's not like that, for example. a nursing home is suitable to be out on offer every four or five years, with systematic monitoring of what Mrs. Hansen needs and what Mrs. Olsen needs, and perhaps Mrs. Hansen gets a little worse, and then Mrs. Olsen gets a little better. There'll be a lot of bureaucracy and sour stuff like that. Just park it. But that's something we're going to put very carefully on the heart. A private clinic in Bergen had called for an open meeting to recruit nurses. There were 200 nurses at that meeting. They sat next to each other and the shot: Heaven and sea, you're here too! They said that employment, employment and heavy-duty systems in the public sector are the reasons why we want something else. The public sector must then be able to solve that kind of problem. It is a failure for the public sector if we are not able to do so ourselves, and these services must be privatised and put on the market in order to solve the problems. SV wants a comprehensive decentralisation of power and authority in the public sector. We believe that this is fairly equally distributed in Norway. We believe that those who want to join and discuss both school and services in local settings have a lot to contribute. We believe that users and employees in the individual workplace must be invited to participate and design them. We think that means that we have to tolerate a little bit more inequality in the way services are designed. That everyone should have proper schooling and proper care and childcare facilities at the bottom. But when it comes to how these services are to be designed, we have to accept greater variation. That's our second challenge to the Government. Our third challenge to the Government is that this means a much greater effort to invest in the public sector. So now the municipalities are going to have a deficit of NOK 12 billion. What has been reported around the local community is that in order for municipalities to get money to invest in the care of the elderly, they take away from school – kittens in the framework hours and everything that gives some air and opportunity around the school. It is extremely difficult to understand, for Norway is the country of opportunity. We have so much money, and all the other countries in the world envy us and the freedom of action we have. It becomes incomprehensible to people most when the state and the Storting behave as originals that allow the house to fall away and the roof runs sluggish, while the mattress bulges over with money. It's going to be a mismatch that makes it hard for people to trust politics. In environmental policy, SV will be a very strong opposition to the Workers' Party, and it is an opposition that the Workers' Party needs. It is simply that the workers of the Workers' Party, of all ages and of both sexes, have won too many battles in environmental policy. We're going to systematically and intensely challenge them in terms of gas power plants and patents on life, where we think we got ominous signals yesterday. These are some of the most important international challenges of our time. In SV, we see the desire for life to the full. We believe that we have had a more exciting parliamentary situation. We're in a situation where we can systematically challenge a potential large number, both the government party and the center parties. But we are also going to work long-term towards 2001. Because if this game, where an alternate majority is sought from both the Labour Party and the Centre, will continue until then, SV will be in a very offensive situation. Then we can say to the voters for a safe reason that if you vote in the Labour Party, you don't know what you get. [[President clubs]] If you vote in the center, you don't know what you get. [[President clubs]] You might as well get the president from the Progress Party, or from the Right. The party that combines a radical policy of distribution and a forward-looking environmental policy is SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1050	Now the President must also take the offensive. Number is too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1053	Thank you for your goodwill, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1058	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1061	I will first be allowed to point out that the commitment that SV's leader has in every context, and also here on the platform, in terms of school policy, is commendable. It is also great if it is that the representative Halvorsen has noticed in the government statement that one of the most important premises on which Government policy is to be based is precisely knowledge, research and development. It permeates the basis of the policy formulated by the government of Stoltenberg. After a long fight for a few months back about who was the most for school, it was a fact that the Workers' Party and SV found together on many important points when the recruitment message was for treatment in Stortinget. But the problem is, here, as in other matters, that if the Workers' Party and SV are never so much in agreement, that doesn't give the majority in the Storting. The head of the SV, the representative Halvorsen, also has a great deal of commitment in many respects to how we can manage to create majority solutions in Norwegian policy. It's an engagement the Workers' Party also has. It is clearly a long-term objective to have a structure in the parliamentary system that provides majority solutions. But what's hard to understand in Halvorsen's argument is how she links it to today's situation. The representative Halvorsen says, perhaps with a little indignantness, that the Workers' Party is claiming a freedom to seek a different majority. But isn't that exactly what's happening in the Norwegian economy, that there's no basis for any majority solutions, either on one side or the other? And how should SV relate to it? Finally, are we going to assume that SV will be part of a majority where they actually agree, and not use the gas power case as an instrument to stand out in other matters as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1080	SV's commitment to the school will continue until we get results. We're pretty tough, and the pastry's good. But we're also impatient, because it's with children that they get one year older for every year that goes. It's years that are more important to them than to us who dangerously approach us 40 and would like time to go a little slower sometimes. This is extremely important. Unfortunately, there is no investment in the scope that is needed around the municipality of Norway in this field. That's where we're going to push on. So Hill-Marta Solberg is calling for a realistic and possible majority constellation as the political situation is now. I believe that simply a lack of political direction from the Labour Party is part of the explanation. There is an environmental policy at the heart of – probably also EU policy – because there will be a majority in the UK in all environmental matters if the Workers' Party continues as in the case of gas power and adopts its policy and seeks support where it is possible, because the Right Party and the Progress Party are always clear. The only way to achieve some environmental policy outcomes that go in the direction of the SV is if the SV and the Workers' Party are given the opportunity to negotiate with one or more centre parties on a large and broad political platform. It is then possible for SV to achieve some results in environmental policy, but not otherwise. It's a situation that we think would serve the future better. [[President clubs]] Now it's exciting for both the Workers' Party, us and the Centre how long the Left and the Center will find themselves under Bondevik's wings and not see, for example. The centre party, that they actually have the opportunity to prevent the Right Party and the Advance Party. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1087	Let's move on!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1091	When I hear the SV and Mrs. Halvorsen tell me about the Progress Party and the right parties in Norwegian politics and her description of it, I have to say that the competence in that area had been placed on a pinhead. In fact, we in the Progress Party are the best friend of municipalities and schools. We have shown this in the settings here in Stortinget and in the work we do daily, as opposed to SV, which would not even compensate the municipalities for the implementation of Reform 97. There SV has shown in practical politics that what they claim and say from the Parliament's pulpit, and as they in discussions and debates throw out to the Norwegian people, does not hold up when we come to voting here in the Chamber. But we just have to take note of that. The party is interested in and willing to invest in Norwegian school, as opposed to SV. We are also willing to invest in the primary tasks of the municipalities and the state, and I am thinking in particular about the elderly. But Mrs. Halvorsen had a point in what she said, namely that in Kommune-Norway there is often a discussion about where to cut when the municipal politicians from other parties are unable to prioritise the primary tasks and what is required by law. Then we see that either it's cut in the older sector, or it's cut in the school sector. And the reason for that is that the other politicians in this room have not taken the extended hand that we in the Progress Party have come with when it comes to earmarking financial resources from the state for these primary tasks. Then is my question to the representative from SV Mrs. Halvorsen, who is so concerned about the weak in society, who is so busy doing something about a school sector that needs upgrading, and who is so interested in doing something about the older sector: does she now want the state to automatically pay what is necessary so that everyone can get a similar offer across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1102	The difference between the thinking of the Progress Party and the SV in terms of school is: the Progress Party believes that if you equip all children with a check, you can let them out of town, and then they can buy themselves a school place wherever it may be. I don't know any parents or children who want such a type of school, and who think that's the first thing you want. What I know is quite a number of parents and children who are desperate if the children don't fit in the nearest school. The progress party is all over the world in school policy. What you need are community schools where we as parents can be involved in designing the school, where there is a short school road, where there is a safe school road, and not a rush with first, second, third, fourth and fifth grades to go shopping on a school market around the city. The public sector policy of the Progress Party is a systematic policy for privatisation. There is a systematic policy that is going to lead to greater differences between people. These are the changes they want in the public sector. Old ladies and young children go shopping with checks. So that's not how you make a good public sector. There is no one who believes in the Progress Party when they claim to be more for school or more for the municipalities than SV, for SV is the party that has systematically redistributed from private wealth, especially among those who have the most, and to public services that everyone needs. It's because we think it's a social form that includes most people in Norway. We don't want any more earrings in SV. On the contrary, we believe that what is the task of the Great and the State is to ensure that there are so liberal frameworks at local level that they can be carried out. [[President clubs]] But we have to ensure some standards through minimum standards. [[President clubs]] Designation means more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1119	The President will ask the representative of Halvorsen to see that the speaking time is kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1122	I have registered that SV's leader has asked questions about whether the center party will now attack the workers' party government from the right or the left. This shows that SV is still stuck in traditional right-wing policy. The case of gas power plants shows that there is a clear distinction between the parties in important value and environmental issues and that this does not follow the old block pattern. Does this not show that SV has to come out of the Forced View saying that Norwegian policies can only be presented as a choice between a right and a left page? In the Christian People's Party, we are occupied by a strong public administration, a strong public sector, but we realize that this also needs to be streamlined and modernised. We also see that the so-called third sector can be involved in making valuable contributions to the success of many important tasks. In my contribution to the representative, Halvorsen, I registered that she was calling for the modernisation of the public sector. I then ask if this means that SV is really willing to put public administration under a critical searchlight and among other things. look at whether the so-called third sector can also contribute to good solutions both for the community and for the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1131	In the opinion of SV, there is a right-left axis in Norwegian policy, but it is not the only axis. But it is clear that in many tax and distribution issues where the centre parties, the Right and the Advance Party have agreed, for example. the time when the company was taxed almost zero, it became very clear. Then it became very clear that there was a right-left axis – there was a change in the tax system against which the Workers' Party and SV were opposed. So of course there are also value questions, which is another axis, where I perceive that center and SV are more in line, for example. in environmental policy; it can also be on EU and other issues. But I find it difficult to understand the centre when they believe that the fact that they themselves want to cooperate both on the right and on the left separately – both with the Right and the Advance Party and with the Workers' Party – should in itself imply that there was no right-left axis in Norwegian policy, for in many contexts it has led to more right-wing policy in the distribution policy than that for which there could initially have been a majority in the Stortinget. After all, the flexibility of the centre party in tax matters and the Waxenå declaration is the reason for this. We want a critical searchlight in the public sector, but we want it to be based on a very clear distinction between the privatisation solutions that the Right and the Advance Party are now so strongly pursuing. It's privatisation that means more bureaucracy, and that makes small well-being crowns that we're struggling to cover, just as often goes to private profit as to create better services. What we think is actually a terrible bad idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1138	The representative, Halvorsen, was committed in his contribution to a majority formation here in the Stortinget. She mentioned an alliance between the Workers' Party and SV and one or more of the Centre Parties. But I wonder how the representative Halvorsen has intended to do that. SV was very pleased with the budgetary agreement between the former central government and the Workers' Party before Christmas, and the main reason was that the Right was parked on the political sideline, where, in her opinion, the Right belongs at home, without direct influence. However, contrary to SV, the Right has achieved political results even in the opposition, had political influence and delivered results in a number of areas, such as: in the fields of health policy, education policy, industrial policy and environmental policy, to name a few. SV has clear ambitions to have practical impact on politics, and SV wants power and influence, but as they said, how in the world are they going to do it? The centre parties have decided to continue acting as a block, and at the centre party, SV has nothing to pick up, without having to swallow the policies of the Christian People's Party and the Left. In a press release on 17 March, SV says that they will not be a supporting party for the Workers' Party. In fact, none of the constellations in question make SV a member of any majority, if they were unable to split the centre block and get with the Center Party together with the Workers' Party. History shows that this is not impossible, but in the current situation it is unlikely. Actually, the petitions to the Center Party here today have been both long and many, but I think it's a bit ahead. Therefore, there is reason to ask what role SV should play in the future policy. Are they still just going to comment on other people's policies? And where has it become of the power and influence that SV is talking so hot about?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1145	That SV was very satisfied with the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre parties last autumn was a significant exaggeration. We don't think it was good when you got 600 million. kr more to the local government sector, for example, when they report deficits of DKK 12 billion. But we know that it would have been worse if the Right and Advance Party had been sitting there, because then they would probably have cut off the municipal sector. So for a long time each crown helps, but that the jubilee stood on the roof, was probably to take a little rough in. SV's voters and members have the same requirement as all other parties' voters and members to achieve the best possible results in policy-making. And Sonja Sjøli is right in saying that as the situation is now, as the Stortinget is now composed, the key to SV's influence until the 2001 election will be significantly what way the centre parties want to cooperate, possibly with SV, and to challenge the Workers' Party in important areas. If the Center Party wants to be calm and reasonably indifferent under Bondevik's leadership, it's a choice they've made. I respect that, but I think maybe it's a little bit self-destructive. And we know that there are a lot of things where the Center Party and SV have agreed. But we also look forward to the 2001 Grand elections. I am absolutely sure that a terrible number of voters want the combination that SV stands for in Norwegian policy, namely a fair distribution policy, an efficient, proper public sector and a forward-looking environmental policy. We know that there is a policy, an overall policy, that young voters largely want, as many female voters and sensible men want to be. So future is light!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1152	Kristin Halvorsen had many interesting thoughts about governance and cooperation. The government that now sits has the broadest basis on which it is politically possible to have at its present stage, both in the number of representatives behind it and in possible cooperative formations on lines and on individual matters. It is not possible to imagine that there should have been an alternative majority pattern, as the political situation is now, either by coalitions on government teams or by cooperation agreements in the United Kingdom. Ergo has to work together on a case-by-case basis between government and large-scale figures. I note that SV sees relatively positively the formation of government that exists, and I hope that SV wants as intimate cooperation with this government as possible, but of course not by the fact that SV has to state its own identity. Neither will the Government or the Workers' Party. Therefore, it may be wise in this context to focus on where the cooperation potential is greatest. For two social democratic parties, I believe that the cooperation potential and the challenge are the greatest in the public sector, because it is important to both of us, because it has to work better, and because we have to find alternative and better solutions there, not for SV, not for the Workers' Party, but for the people who depend on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1159	I want to start by saying that if Tom Thoresen and the Workers' Party want to cooperate with SV, he might have to accept that you don't start by putting the same ideological label on the Workers' Party and SV. As Tom Thoresen knows, I am an intensely glowing, modern and environmentally friendly socialist, and I intend to continue with that. So if you're not willing to enter into any negotiations between parties that initially form a majority on the Stortinget, it's right, as Tom Thoresen says, that then this government has the widest possible basis. But it is to a very great extent also up to the Workers' Party! When driving the gas power case as you did, it was a decision against the votes of the central parties and SVs that triggered the government crisis. And the challenge for the Workers' Party is that as long as you reserve the right to say that the Workers' Party adopts its policy, and then we seek support on a case-by-case basis in the Storting, that situation will last. It's at the moment you want a majority constellation that also means negotiating politics, that there are opportunities, and it's not just about mathematics and how the Storting is complex, but also about the parties' willingness to make political compromises. We want a real but tough challenge role in relation to the workers' party government. We believe that there are many unresolved issues in Norwegian society that a majority in the UK should focus on solving, and put forward long-term plans to solve, instead of having a constellation in which to apply for an alternate majority. On top of that, I also have a challenge to join the Workers' Party, and that is: We, who have been in opposition under Bondevik, have marked a more transparent and respectful tone from Bondevik towards other parties than what we are used to on the Labour Party side. I think that's a wise property to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1170	The President will point out that also declared socialists must address their speech via the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1175	The current Prime Minister’s candidate Jens Stoltenberg is in an interview with VG on 13 February, as follows: ‘The man designated as Norway’s next Prime Minister believes that the objective of political success is to achieve the small practical objectives pursued. It’s about ‘holding the car on the road’.’ The new government's declaration of accession reflects precisely this philosophy of governance. It is remarkably based on the continuation of the policies of the previous government. To the extent that there is something new in the statement, it is because the Workers' Party is now saying a lot of things that others have said before. Why did we then get this government change? Of course because a majority on the Stortinget wanted it. It's not about a new policy, it's about power for new people. The shift came after a government hunt that had lasted a long time. It became increasingly intolerable for the Workers' Party and the Right that the Bondevik government was sitting. That's why it had to be common. We remember the Right ralling over the ‘airlock’ before the 1997 elections. And we remember Jan Petersen's threat in the party leader debate before the 1997 elections to join the government on the declaration of accession. We remember the Workers' Party's strategy of pasting the government to the right side and consequently blocking any cooperation with them themselves, with the cash support as a stabbe stone. And we remember both parties' bulging over the government's inability to control and its inability to 'choose side'. The intention was obvious all the way, namely that the government of Bondevik had to become a short-term and unnatural intermesso in Norwegian policy. It just took longer than anyone had imagined. Politics is about power, and I don't think the reputation of politics is served by obvious attempts to hide its intentions, as both the Labour Party and the Right have done for a long time. The left went to elections in 1997 to create an alternative to the Labour Party Government. In the last two and a half years, the centre parties have shown that they constitute a good and manageable government option. That's why we regret to see that the Workers' Party is back, with Right-wing help. The Centre will continue to represent a government option. It is democratically important, and it is necessary to move the policy in a social liberal direction, as the Bondevik government has done in all the important policy areas of the Left. It is interesting and positive that the Stoltenberg Declaration of Accession in so many areas signals the continuation of this policy. It also shows that it is in liberal space, in the field of tension between greater freedom for individuals and the new Community solutions, that policy needs to find its answers. That is why the government statement is marked by many good, liberal ideas. As it approaches concrete policies, it follows the tracks of the central government. This is true in the rather diffuse signals on public sector renewal. These are statements about a forward-looking industrial policy, focusing on IT, knowledge and research, where there has been a lot of new in the last two years. In particular, Stoltenberg mentioned that Norway should be a leading country in the field of electronic commerce. It is in line with what is to be dealt with in the Storting next week, after a big-time announcement promoted by the outgoing government. It is positive that the government wants to continue the high pace that the previous government had in this area, after several years of neglect. I noticed the desire to clarify the distinction between the state as owner and supervisor in business, one in and for itself the old Left case. It can give hope for a greater principleal understanding of such matters, and perhaps at the end of the time when social democrats boasted of the mix of roles between politics, management and business. However, I am not entirely safe, in the light of also relatively fresh experience. Also in district policy and welfare and distribution policy, the continuation of the objectives and work base of the central government is outlined. In European policy, the basis remains the 1994 referendum and the EEA Agreement. In several policy areas, the Prime Minister clearly shows that there has been a turnaround in the Labour Party's course. It illustrates the importance of the change of government we received in 1997, by adapting the Labour Party and continuing the changes that have been made. However, in one area in particular, the differences are clear and the contrast between words and actions of the Workers' Party is striking, namely in environmental policy. It is positive that the Government says it will make Norway an environmental policy priority country, but this is in stark contrast to what the Workers' Party has contributed so far during this process, not least in the case that led to the government change. The government of Stoltenberg starts its act as an environmental sinking and has a very long way to go before it can appear to be a leadership in a pre-existing country. Former Environment Minister Guro Fjellang pointed out on several occasions just this difference. While Thorbjørn Berntsen was alone in fighting for the environment in the governments of Harlem Brundtland and Jagland, the entire government stood for environmental policy under Bondevik. This is not just about matters in the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, it’s about an overall approach to policy – in business development, transport, energy policy, research and education, etc. The gas power issue is primarily about Norway's contribution to a forward-looking environmental policy and fulfilment of our Kyoto commitments, but also about an innovative business life based on knowledge and technology development. Modern Norway cannot be built on old-fashioned and polluting methods. The majority of the population stands for a backward-looking policy, and I can assure you that the Left will continue the fight to ensure that the polluting gas power stations will never be built in Norway. In key policy areas, Stoltenberg was taus in its declaration of accession. We've got a completely different culture and policy of transparency and publicity in the administration of the Bondevik government. Will the Labour Party Government continue this? What happens to privacy and the fight for the integrity of individuals at a time when these values are facing ever-new challenges? Here we have important principles in which liberals have traditionally opposed social democracy. It is therefore not surprising that the Prime Minister is not talking about transparency and privacy. Typically, social democracy is also the expression of the fact that it is not people who create Norway but modernised institutions and effective instruments. Central issues such as how we trigger the creativity we need, how we create positive attitudes towards starting and running businesses, how we take care of democracy at a time when society changes so quickly, is not affected, and can therefore not be seen as particularly important to the government of Stoltenberg. The Prime Minister is influenced by a technocratic way of thinking, where it is about doing the professionally right things. So it makes sense to have the leading vision of keeping the car on the road. The question is whether the government will choose correctly when the car comes to a junction. Prime Minister Bondevik, apologies to President,—the heart is full, it is easy to get out with—minister Stoltenberg pointed to the problems of getting sufficient labour to carry out the many important welfare and renewal tasks in Norway. The Bondevik government opened up a more liberal labour immigration policy, although the Labour Party and the Advance Party have long opposed it. The Left will meet the Government with a constructive and factual opposition, along with the other two central parties. We must ensure that the positive things mentioned in the Declaration of Accession are followed up, and we must ensure that what is not mentioned is nevertheless given attention. One important advantage is that the new government will have over it: it will not meet the Workers' Party in opposition. Finally, I'm going to present proposal No. 1, which shall be distributed in the places, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, which say: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a legislative proposal that the acquisition tax on options in employment should be decommissioned with effect from the 2000 income year.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1227	The representative has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The President would point out that he is of the opinion that ‘backward policy’ is not a parliamentary expression towards co-representatives. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1234	I noticed that Sponheim was hurt, and I understand that, of course, very well. That he'd rather talk about what he's done, I understand, too, but now we've got a new government from the Labour Party, with a new policy. And then I'm actually a little happy that he says he should be constructive even if he's hurt. It's a progress, I'd say. So I see that Sponheim says that there's a lot of things here that can only be done about, and I'm very happy about that, because it's at the intersection of the Workers' Party and the Centre that we can find the good solutions when it's applicable, among other things. welfare policy and mitigation. As the statement has said, it is the possibilities of its country we have here in Norway, both in terms of knowledge and natural resources, and we have a good welfare society. And so it is that the majority in Norway live in security with good welfare, while half of the earth's population lives in poverty. It obliges us, and we can do something about it. That is why I was very surprised when I read in Bergen's Official Journal today that Sponheim has said that the only new thing is that Gro has called from Geneva and asked for more vaccine for the vaccine program. This year, 3 million children die of diseases against which Norwegian children are vaccinated. It's a shame! We can do something about this. We can ensure that there will be vaccines for all children if we are willing to prioritize part of the money we give to this. Therefore, the Government will support this vaccine programme. It's been said clearly from now on, and one will be in the lead of this program. Then I thought it was sad that one just blew this away by saying that the only new thing is that there was a phone call from Gro Harlem Brundtland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1245	Let me first say that I am sorry that I used the non-parliamentary word "backstrew." I guess I should have said old-fashioned and reactionary. So to the specific question: My main point was that the most concrete thing in this government statement that we were given was that there was a phone call from the head of the World Health Organisation about the need for more vaccines. That's great! I support that, too. It is also the case that former Prime Minister Bondevik, as he said in his speech today, a few weeks ago sent a letter and announced that the previous government too wanted to support it. But what I said is probably so much a statement that there were not so many other concrete proposals that were made in the statement of the new government yesterday. In this way, it is good to have something safe abroad that can contribute. With regard to many of the thoughts and reflections expressed here by the representative of Frøiland, I have no problem joining them. There is definitely no wound to the parliamentary leader of the Left who is standing here. We've got a new situation. We've got a new government. All the central parties have announced that we want to be constructive and will help the new government to have the room for action and governance in this room. We want to vote for what we're for, and that should give a lot of interesting tangent points between the government and the center. But it's actually – and I think it's important to get there because it hasn't come to any particular appearance in this debate – quite different from what the Bondevik government met when it came to power in 1997, not because we had pushed ourselves into it, but because we actually got the gift because the Workers' Party threw in the towel. Then we actually met a significant degree of obstruction and reluctance through at least barely two years, until it was possible to find a budget solution to get around the cash support. It's not an attitude with which the central parties want to meet the Workers' Party. But we are also going to vote for what we are for, and against everything we have to be against what the new government had to come with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1254	Last year, Norwegian municipalities went a total of NOK 12 billion in deficit. The point of view of the Progress Party is that it is important to increase the use of the newly competitive and more market governance of the municipal sector. This is important in order to achieve a more rational and efficient use of public funds. The challenges of the future will require more stringent requirements for the more efficient use of our common resources in the public sector. Will the left not ideologically reject more use of competition and private items in the public sector? And can we expect that the Left can actually appear as a driving force in the process of modernising, converting, renewing and streamlining municipal administration and operation? Rattsø has said that it would be a disaster if the state were to cover the municipal deficit, which was therefore NOK 12 billion in 1999. Then you reward new deficits, and new deficits could grow out of control if the government would always cover the deficits afterwards, says Rattsø. The state must press ahead with savings and conversions, says Rattsø further. What is the comment of the representative Sponheim on these opinions from Rattsø? Can we expect that the Left, which must stand for a certain independent line, will work for efficiency, renewal, conversion, innovation and more market liberalism in this area towards the next elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1263	First of all, I would like to correct what the representative here said at the end of his line, namely that efficiency and renewal should be a market-liberalist policy. In order to achieve an increasingly efficient use of resources in the public sector too, the public sector needs to be renewed. There has been an ongoing process through which Norwegian society has been through for years. I remember myself as an opposition politician under the former government of Harlem Brundtland here from this chair expressing that it was an important task to renew the public sector. It's been going on all along. Perhaps we should be glad that there is a slightly civilised process in Norway, because I believe it is a long way to go – not least in today’s situation, where we have full capacity utilisation in the economy. Here I fully support the statement by the government of Stoltenberg. There are no free resources to put in. If we're going to be able to solve the problems that we see there's a screaming need, we have to do two things. We either need to redeploy these resources by giving them a different priority, or we need to use them even more effectively to get more out of them. It is absolutely necessary to do so within the public sector. And then to the debate on privatisation and competition: I cannot fully understand the fundamental debate, because we have long traditions for this in Norway. Snowbreaking is in many places a public task. Many other tasks will be announced. This has been implemented in technical fields, and this principle is also applied in many other important areas of the public sector. But then we probably have different views on how far this should go in other important areas. Personally, I think there's a limit where it's about hospital operations directly in many areas, the care of our elderly, etc. There's a limit to what should somehow be the task of the public, where everyone should be equal to the right to have an equal offer. It is likely that the view of the Left and the Advance Party will be divided. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that both the project ‘Simplify Norway’ and service statements are important projects from the previous government in such a direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1272	Sponheim is a man who has the sense to say straight what he means, and that's a good trait. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 11 March – the weekend after the change of government – he said: "Now I can speak in upper case again. From that perspective, it would be like coming out of a prison,...» Let me first welcome the representative Sponheim out. I'm not going to hustle about Sponheim's statements – there are some people who think we have something to go on there in the Right – just wondering why the representative Sponheim is so angry at us in the Right when he thinks that the resignation of the Bondevik government can be compared to ‘coming out of a prison’. On the other hand, I expect Sponheim to speak in capital letters again. I want to ask Sponheim whether this means that the Left will again be with the Right in the fight for a stronger Business Norway, not least for small businesses? Will Sponheim once again stand together with the Right in the fight for lower taxes on wealth and for increased health costs for businesses? Will Sponheim again stand with the Right in the fight for a better school? Will Sponheim once again stand together with Right in the resistance to the house tax, which depositor Odd Einar Dørum has characterized as rent to the state? If the answer is yes to these questions, it would be a pleasure that Sponheim can again speak in capital letters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1284	I can at least promise the representative Burnde that Sponheim as a big-time representative can allow himself to use many of the good lines and formulations that often end up on the tongue, but as one when in a government, must make sure to control something more. I think I'm going to be as honest as saying that the Lord of Spring has made Sponheim better as an attacker than to have to stand on his own 16 meters at any time, even though there was also a task that became possible to deal with in an all right way. There are many things the Left can find along with the Right in the policy, but I am unsure how necessary it is to do so in as many areas as the representative Burnde said here. The point is that in many of these areas we are now working with the centre – on better industrial policy in key areas, innovation policy. Innovation has become an important political word in Norway in a completely different way, as a result of what has happened in the Bondevik government in recent years. For example, the Centre promotes: a proposal today for which the Right is invited to vote – a proposal I believe the Right has been too long, and which may be important, among other things. for the many innovation enterprises. It's probably more important in a debate like this one that might have the opportunity to put closer words on the relationship between center and right, and on what's hurt and difficult – I think the Right could have been in a fundamentally different situation today, they had a management and leaders who had thought long-term, and reached the shoe soles of, for example. John Lyng, who in his time invested in cooperation over a long period of time – rather than winning the small rhetorical battles in any debate with the most sharp and pointed formulations possible. Had Right thought so, I think Right had been in a completely different situation vis-à-vis the possibilities of greater power and influence than they are today. But it's never too late to turn around, and I think that a cooperation man like Børge Burnde can be a man who should be able to contribute positively in such a direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1293	Yeah, at least it's important when you're standing on your own 16 meters, that you know which way the ball should be kicked. There have been a lot of centermates up here today and declared that the Workers' Party seems to be continuing the Centre's policy. So did the representative Sponheim. On one of the important issues – modernisation of the public sector – the representative Sponheim said that he felt there were diffuse signals in the government statement. It may also be a continuation of the Centre's policy. I have tried to listen to the representative Sponheim and others to hear what they expect in terms of modernising the public sector. After I understood, there was a lack of service statements, which were not mentioned, which was the most specific representative of Sponheim. I would like it to be a little more precise, as he missed clarification from Prime Minister Stoltenberg – so did I. It is clear that when both the Progress Party, the Right and the SV see very well in the government statement regarding the modernisation of the public sector, the level of precision cannot be good enough. That's why I want to ask the representative Sponheim: what does he want more precisely? Is it more competitive outsourcing, privatisation – and then I don't think about snow mining – or is it, as mentioned here, service statements, public service offices and such things? It would have been okay to clarify this, because then we can see a little bit about how it is possible to establish a majority in that process in the future. So there's another area that Sponheim mentioned, and that's this with new technology. And here's something exciting, because Sponheim, like others, has said that the center is a block. The working party and SV have worked a little hard to get a majority in terms of broadband network development, price development, etc., and the role of the country. We know that party leader Enoxsen has been out there and said clearly that the state should have a primary responsibility for the whole country being put into service in terms of new technology. Is it also the common view of the Centre, or is it the view of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1302	The work of making the public sector in Norway a better public sector is a work that needs to be done on many fronts and within many institutions and municipalities. What the Bondevik government has done in this area is a work that I hope the new government will continue. There is a programme for the many good actions in the ‘Simplify Norway’ project, with a set of different actions that need to be taken. In order to take a small example — and this is a project that would benefit everyone, citizens, recipients and businesses: there are 12,000 regulations and regulations that Norwegian companies have to deal with, and it took the Bondevik government two years to get an overview of all these rules and regulations before anything could be done about this. The work was not done before, it was now, but now it is there as a very good basis to start a simplification and reorganisation programme to make the public sector more efficient. And this is the case in many areas – there is simply a lack of understanding of what rules and regulations exist in order to start work on simplification and modernisation. These are important tasks. I do not think the representative Myrvoll should smile too much of it. It is necessary that public services also have a declaration of what citizens can expect, what they should have provided at what quality at what time. And if that doesn't happen, you should get a promise of what the public will do to be able to deliver this next time. This is a new phenomenon, it is the government of Bondevik that has introduced it, and I sincerely hope that the new government will continue this good principle. So the question of broadband bet. There was the central government, together and clearly, the private sector and private demand are able to solve these problems in the vast majority of areas, but we have a market failure in the outermost regions, and there's a public task to do. It was the Bondevik Government that introduced a grant scheme under the Research Council, which makes it possible to create demand in areas where there is a market failure and where the market cannot solve it. Thus, the state has a responsibility, but we have to let the private do a job where they can do it, so that you can avoid using tax money when that is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1313	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1316	The world is in a transformation process that I would say lacks parallel in history, at least considering the pace at which the changes take place. The world is becoming increasingly interconnected in fields such as economics, information and science. Therefore, a key policy task now is to ensure that Norway becomes an active participant and partner in the global economy, science and policy. This task is perhaps as great and epoch-making as it was building the welfare state after the war. The country shall continue to be built, but not on the basis of a national State which restricts itself to the outside world by means of regulations and restrictions. Norway is increasingly getting its framework conditions defined by international rules, defined in international bodies. If we are to ensure our self-determination and self-respect for Norway in the years ahead, we must seek influence in these bodies. Here, perhaps, lies the greatest difference between this government's policy and philosophy and that of the previous government. The reason for the change of government was that the Bondevik government could not live with the introduction of energy and environmental policy into a global and European framework, as the Workers' Party and the majority of the population wanted. With a narrow national framework as the starting point, as the previous government built on, Norway would come into the situation that we would be the only country that could not exploit the gas industrially, despite the fact that we have the gas. On the other hand, if we build on the philosophy underlying the Kyoto Protocol, that the climate problem is global, making electricity from gas in Norway becomes a sensible environmental policy, even though national emissions are increasing, because global emissions are being reduced as a result of the gas’s overstepping of the use of coal. In other words, we see that there is a stronger link between domestic and foreign policy than ever before. Let me mention another example of this context, namely our position on the EU Patent Directive. The directive forms the ethical and commercial framework for the world's strongest growing industry, namely the biotechnology industry. Our neighbouring countries are increasing their resources in these industries. In the Øresund region, in the Medicon Valley, there are 30 000 people employed in the biotechnology industry. Finland has 10 pst. by European enterprises in this area. The reason is that they have taken an offensive view of this industry. However, Norway is lagging behind, probably because there is uncertainty about how we approach this patent directive. In this country, we have focused one-sidedly on the objectionable aspects of this technology. Rather, let us take an offensive stance by drawing up clear ethical guidelines and taking advantage of the positive aspects of scientific innovation. We now see the possibilities of curing public diseases such as diabetes and heart attacks, combating cancer, AIDS and Alzheimer’s disease – to name a few – more effectively as a result of this new technology. And it's developed a rice plant that has so much vitamin A in it that it can eradicate blindness in the poor countries. There are 240 million blind people in the world. We have to ask: shall we say no to these innovations? Should Norway stand out from this development? Of course, the new government has not taken a decision on the patent directive, but I can promise that we will not push the matter ahead of us. The government will have an active European policy where we see the opportunities and not just the problems. Europe's future is Norway's future. However, change processes in Europe face major challenges in Norway, which is not a member of the EU. Blocking and contradictions have been replaced by cooperation based on common economic and political interests. The EU is a driving force in these processes. Norway must be an active co-player here despite being a non-member of the EU. Norway must take its share of the responsibility for building a more peaceful Europe. The government assumes that our relationship with the EU is based on the 1994 referendum. The EEA Agreement will continue to be the cornerstone of our relationship with the EU. But our interests towards the EU must be more active – we must also contribute! Membership of the EU will lift the new candidate countries economically and socially. There can be no doubt about it. Enlargements will therefore contribute to security and stability in Europe and create a new framework for the preservation of our common European heritage. As a constructive partner, Norway should contribute to the achievement of these extensions. The government therefore wants to strengthen EEA cooperation by assisting future EU Member States in adapting to the internal market. As an active contributor here, we also demonstrate practical solidarity in European cooperation. The government also wants to activate the dialogue with the EU in other areas. Both in the justice sector and in relation to security and defence policy, we want to be an active participant. Ten years and four battles after the crisis in Yugoslavia broke out seriously, the Balkans are still marked by great tensions. And if the countermeasures don't start to work soon, the spiral of violence will continue. It is by no means possible to end the crisis in the Balkans. The EU has assumed a primary responsibility for the long-term stabilisation of south-east Europe through the Stability Pact, which aims to stimulate enhanced cooperation between countries in south-east Europe and link them to the integration process itself in Europe. This challenge is also a challenge for Norway, and the views of the Government coincide with those of the EU. Our extensive efforts in the Balkans must be an integral part of our active European policy. However, like many EU countries, the Government is not satisfied with the progress plan and progress made in the Stability Pact. And when I myself aim to attend the major financing conference for the Stability Pact in Brussels next week, it is precisely to signal our desire to get more speed in this work. Norway also has the same objectives as the EU in relation to Russia. The aim is to integrate Russia into European cooperation. Norway can play a significant role. This will be of great importance to our own safety, to our environment and to our business. That is why our relationship with Russia, as a neighbouring country, becomes a very important part of the policy of the new government. We need to develop a broad partnership with Russia. This is why we need the anchoring in NATO, the close friendship with the United States and participation in Europe. Peace in Europe is indivisible, i.e. that it must apply to all, otherwise it shall not apply at the end. That's the historical experience we have to build on! Here in the country are my generation and the generations born after me, the only generations from the last century that have not felt war and fascism directly on the body. We can't take it for granted that this isn't just an intermesso. In Austria, a party that has denied the extermination of the Jews and honoured the Waffen SS has entered the government. Similar trends exist in many other countries. We have a responsibility for this not being able to spread. I would like to build on the fact that Norway is dependent on the continent of which we are part, and that we have a responsibility to contribute to peace, so that Europe does not once again become the starting point for war and fascism. On this basis, we will continue Norway's strong commitment to the UN, peace and reconciliation and fight for the poor countries through practical international solidarity. I cannot see any more important task today than helping to eradicate poverty and fight for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1345	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1348	The former Jagland government was known for its commitment to the Middle East. Huge transfers of money were given to Yasir Arafat and his regime. In the populace there were even some who characterized Palestine as the 20th state of Norway. That the Workers' Party is good for Arafat, there has never been any doubt about it. But will the new government be just as good for Norway? The Government states in its statement that ‘it will continue Norway’s commitment to peace and reconciliation, including: in the Middle East». At the same time, we can read in today’s media that ‘Norway is now embarking on a full review of Norwegian assistance to Palestinian authorities’. This is very positive, but according to the Newspaper, it should be about the human rights and democracy side. My question is whether this will be followed up, as it says in the newspaper. And I'm also asking, what about the economic side? This year, Norway is about 220 million. Dr in assistance to the self-governed areas according to Dagbladet. This happens at the same time as it is claimed in the international media that the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat has salted down billions of pounds for PLO in secret, foreign bank accounts and in investments, including properties in London. At the same time, there is strong criticism of the use of the means of assistance used in Palestine. So the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Will the Government critically review the scope and use of the Norwegian aid funds for Palestine?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1355	First, I want to say that it wasn't quite the right definition when it was said that the transfers went to Yasir Arafat. It has to be remembered that here we are talking about perhaps the most difficult conflict in the world, where Norway was an initiator of the Oslo process, which led to the mutual recognition of Israel and the PLO. This, of course, had to be followed up — not only by Norway, but also by all donor countries — with measures to improve the situation of the Palestinian population. It is also essential in this area to ensure that the aid money goes to what they are going to do. That's why you run this review, and it's clear that you find irregularities, it's going to be shut down. I want to say one thing: for many years – and still have – the Labour Party had a very good relationship with the Israeli Labour Party. That's why we could say we're their friends. But we were also critical of the policy that Israel pursued for many years. We could be because we were Israel’s friends. We're going to have the same attitude in relation to the Palestinians. We are Palestinian friends – that is why we are going to say about violations of human rights and improper use of the means we have. It has to be clear. But otherwise, we need to continue with the assistance we provide, for example. through the donor country group.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1362	First, I would like to congratulate the new Foreign Minister on a major and important task and hope that we can have a good cooperation here in Stortinget. Now the Foreign Minister was initially in the gas power plant again, claiming that the Bondevik government left because it did not have the power to see the environmental problems in a global context. This isn't right. The Bondevik government claimed that in order to secure the environment globally, we had to have an allowance system, as the Kyoto agreement opens up, so that we could ensure that the construction of gas power plants, regardless of technology, would not lead to an increase in the global environmental problem, but reduce it. The Secretary of State's reasoning would have had something in common if such an allowance system were in place, but it is not today. So the Foreign Minister spent a lot of his time on European policy. There were interesting points of view, but this also led to his mention of aid and the global problem of poverty that had been addressed in the Prime Minister's presentation, albeit summarically, barely in form, yet still. I would therefore like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs on two points: two important initiatives that the Bondevik Government has left behind. One is the aid escalation plan, and the other is the human rights action plan. How will the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government of Stoltenberg follow up these two important initiatives of solidarity, where the Workers' Party and the Centre parties have traditionally been united, but which now present themselves as commitments, clear and concrete challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1373	I will promise to add to the good cooperation that my predecessor Knut Vollebæk had to the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Stortinget, and that we very much appreciated in the Workers' Party. I'm not going to drag this gas power debate on, I just used it as an example. When it is said that the allowance system is not established, I must remind you of the fact that the United States signed the Kyoto Protocol on the assumption that the allowance system will come into operation. And I think we have to assume that it's going to happen, because otherwise we're in a very difficult situation, at least that's perfectly clear. Let me repeat, as I said in my speech, that the starting point for the foreign policy we are going to pursue – also in relation to poor countries and human rights – must be that we are well-managing our relationship with Europe, the EU, NATO and also our main ally, the United States. Without that, we have very little opportunity to work on the other front. It has been shown in many cases. So to the concrete questions. As regards the aid escalation plan, it is clear that the Workers' Party has the same objectives as the Christian People's Party. We've programmed that we're going up to 1 pst. of GNI, gross national income, in assistance. With regard to the human rights action plan, we believe that there was a good action plan presented by the Bondevik government. It works here, and we think it should be used as a basis for the work to be done further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1384	In the examination of the year’s budget, the right-hand side was given full support in the Stortingen to develop its own Russia strategy. This includes, inter alia: a comprehensive review of the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises’ investments in Russia, the applicable guarantee schemes and the possibilities for widespread use of aid funds in North-West Russia. The right-hand proposal is based on the fact that stability and predictability in our northern neighbourhoods are central to Norway. The proposal is also based on the fact that, at its Cologne summit last year, the EU developed its own strategy for partnership with Russia. Right wants to differentiate between Eastern Europe and Russia, thus strengthening the framework for Norway’s efforts in the Baltic Sea region. Better framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises in former Eastern Europe are essential to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises in the forthcoming EU enlargement. The Government Declaration offers that the Labour Party Government will address these challenges. Europe's future is also Norway's future, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. A policy that focuses more strongly on our neighbourhoods, which makes Norway’s efforts among others. in the Barents region, can be seen in a wider and more coherent European perspective, will receive the support of the Right. The question is, however, how will the Minister of Foreign Affairs follow this up when he has acknowledged, at the same time, that the appropriations for these areas of activity are insufficient. The right also meets the Government’s commitment to pursue a European policy that promotes Norwegian interests more strongly, and in particular it is important to contribute to a stronger dynamism in the EEA Agreement. We are therefore pleased to record the foreign minister’s commitment to rapidly submitting the EU Patent Directive to the Stortinget. My second question will then be: How does the Foreign Minister assess the need for a similar commitment from the Government to the EU Gas Market Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1397	I believe the Government and the Right look quite similar to the Russia strategy, which was taken up here by the representative Siri Frost Sterri. Government appropriations are, of course, necessary. They've been too small, and we've managed to get something more in, among other things. the mandate of undertakings. But the money is already spent, so it's a relatively critical situation. Guarantee schemes are also important in relation to business involvement in the area. We'll also look at this. I can just say here and now that I think that the initiative that the Right Honourable took is behind the Workers' Party, and we'll follow it up. Then to the directives. We have now announced that we do not want to push things in front of us. We have mentioned the patent directive, but it is also clear that we need to deal with the gas market directive, and we will come to Stortinget in a very short time with a recommendation on how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1406	The government statement states that with regard to Norway’s relationship with the EU, a starting point will be the result of the 1994 referendum – and it is good – while open to all that the Labour Party will keep the doors open in the future. Earlier today, the representative Jacobsen tried to find out what is going on in the government boxes at this point, without getting anything very far. Neither have we been much wiser at this point after the foreign minister's speech, and it must be. I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to elaborate on the expression ‘an active European policy’, because he felt that it should mean a yes to the EU Patent Directive. It's an eye-catching statement. Today, we have excellent cooperation with our close neighbours, and it is hard to imagine that this cooperation can be much better than it is. I found the government that we had, the Bondevik government, attached great importance to leading an active European policy. And the cooperation that we have is itself an argument for leaving the membership debate. At the same time, we can have a sense of important European problem-settings, e.g.: the location of power, the Union bureaucracy, the rule of the people and the future role of the national State. And to take the last, as is well known, it is claimed that the nation state has largely played its role, while others see it as a guarantor of deficiency and of representative democracy in Europe. That I have a much more sense of the last than the first is clear to the sun. The central party people certainly do not belong to the kind of Europeans who are being ruined under the notion of ‘federalist’, and the Foreign Minister clearly has a different view of this point. However, I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: is the ongoing scepticism he has expressed with regard to the role of the nation state, a principle line of government that will underpin its policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1415	There is no doubt that the previous government had a European policy that was built on a lot of doubt and faith, and that there might also have been disagreement, yes it must have been when you look at the various political programmes of the three parties. And that's quite okay, but it led to a little bit too much doubt and faith and also some postponement of matters. That the bulk of the population had to intervene and say what to do, came up in several contexts. I think I can say that this government will be more homogeneous, it will lead one line, and that therefore there will be a more active policy out of it. We do not intend to put matters off, which can also be detrimental to business, for example. in the case of the Patent Directive. I don't want to say what the conclusion is, but it's better for business to come to a conclusion than not knowing what the framework conditions are. So to the question of the nation state. I am not of the opinion that the nation state has played its part, on the contrary. But the nation state can only survive if all nation states are able to design general rules and policy measures to resolve common problems they have. If you don't see it, I think the nation state can really get in danger. That's what this government wants to base. That is why we will not least fight for global action, for example. against the free flow of capital, but as part of this global strategy, we also see that there is a regionalisation in the world, that is. Here in Europe. The European commitment we want to build on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1424	It is difficult not to interpret both the statements made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs today and the Prime Minister’s statement yesterday as a yes to the EU Patent Directive. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Norway wants to play a significant role internationally, and he stressed – if not initially – at least in the last sentence that ethics should also be included. Within ethical guidelines, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this was to happen. In addition to the focus of the Prime Minister yesterday on foreign issues. In this context, there is reason to consider how a patent directive will work. The Patent Directive provides for the possibility of limiting the opportunities and the right of access of developing countries to their own biological resources. It offers great opportunities for enterprises to explore genetics, where companies collect biological material in a developing country and take patents on important medical discoveries related to the product. Not least, it is important to know that the main amount of biodiversity is in developing countries. Then there is reason to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether the ethical guidelines, to which he referred in his statement, should contain such assessments or whether it is the near-political needs, which he stressed very much – i.e. technological developments – that are important? We have to be there for everyone else. When everyone else does, we also have to do it. That's what the argument sounded like. If there is to be an ethics in this area, there must well be a set of guidelines that will underpin whether or not Norway will benefit from the introduction of this Directive in a given situation today or in the future. I would like to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain a little bit what ethical guidelines and norms this government intends to base its work on the Patent Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1433	It's very important that we have an ethical debate about this. It has also been done in the context of this Directive, which was relatively controversial from the outset. It was examined in the European Parliament, and it went through there. In this context, clear ethical guidelines were developed. This has also been discussed here in Stortinget. So there are ethical guidelines. With regard to the issue of acceptance or not of this Patent Directive, I must remind you that the only thing we can achieve by vetoing is to prevent Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland from participating in this development. We cannot prevent all other countries from doing so. We cannot veto other countries. That's the one thing I'd like to say. Secondly, I would say that I think it must now be important to focus on the possibilities that lie here. It also has an ethical side, and that's what I focused on in my post. For example, I mentioned this by the fact that a rice plant has now been developed using this new science that has so much vitamin A in it that one can eradicate all blindness in the world. Blindness in the third world is often due to lack of vitamin A. There are 240 million blind people in the world. It has an important ethical dimension if we're going to say no to put this into practice. I think it's a much better strategy to have clear ethical guidelines and then use technology for human purposes. That has been the case with all the other technological innovations, and I think that must also be the case here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1445	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1448	It is an interesting government statement that has been presented. There are many good wishes, it remains to be seen whether it is willingness to implement. This statement reminds me a lot of the visa that Prøysen has made, of the boy who was going to make a gift for his mother. He started well with case and hammer, and it became a piercing at last. Now this government has a freshly cut knife, and they have a good subject, but don't let it get like that in the end – that there won't be anything left when they're done! I noticed – with great interest – that the fishing industry was mentioned by one line, and that included both fisheries and aquaculture. The government has on its table a coastal defence plan that they can club and adopt, depending on what the Stortinge says in the message that lies here about the protection and use of the coast. There are natural limitations in aquaculture. And it is clear that if the Coastal Protection Plan is adopted, as it exists, the restrictions will be very large. Then it is asked if it will be the value creation that SINTEF has forecast for the next 20 years. We are also talking about a modern fishing industry, which needs to be modernised. Yes, we met the motto'vertical integration' a few years ago. As a result, more and more natural resources are being privatised. Fewer and fewer hands take over what the great flock had – it takes place for full music. And in the regulatory policy, it looks like it's the chess fleet and the smaller units that are the big problem in the fishing industry, precisely in terms of vertical integration. It is a privatisation of natural resources, and it is a privatisation of allowances that is completely unparalleled. And it's going on pretty much without political debate – it's almost incredible to support it. Larger and larger units should have the answer to everything, and this is at the expense of the small ones. So the statement says that the Government will pursue an active district policy and that they will develop the regions. Per. Today, a good part of the fishing fleet is ashore both in Værøy and Røst, because they do not have oil to fill the tanks, because there are restrictions on ferries to take tankers beyond. A tanker takes 20 tons of oil, that's not weird stuff. The time I was fishing, I stocked 100 tons, i.e. five tankers, on that boat – of course I didn't bunker in Værøy or Røst. The question is, how are they supposed to take care of the interests according to what they themselves say? The fishing industry is supposed to be on the stock exchange. It's going to be wage-earning. Payable for whom? Is it to be profitable for those who run the industry, or is it to be profitable for those who go on the stock exchange and invest, for the money magnates? Is it to be sold abroad, as we feel that the largest breeding company is now being sold abroad? Is that what we want? Here's enough to grab hold of this government. Then I have to say a little about the service offices and the service statements. I do not need a service statement, but I need a decision when I promote an application in the public sector. There is nothing to help with a service statement. That's the greatest customs duty I've ever seen. That's not what you need, you need a decision. I have another example, and this applies to free hospital choice. Vestfold central hospital has signed an agreement with the Rikshospitalet. [[The President clubs.]] They don't want to use the Feiring Clinic for a heart disease patient that can be operated immediately. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1469	The President must ask for the speaking time to be respected. In addition, the President would point out that the word 'customs' in the context of which the representative Bastes used it is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1474	It is a pity that the Prime Minister is not present, because I intend to take concretely a number of the points in the Declaration of Accession which, at least, I read with positive eyes. It was said that the Government was inspired to work towards meeting a global knowledge economy. It was said that ‘good economy is to use resources throughout the country’ and that ‘good economy is to ensure that our businesses can claim as well as their competitors’. But it cannot mean anything other than that the Labour Party Government intends to create competitive framework conditions. It means lower tax burden on enterprises. This means a level of charges harmonised with our competitors, which means that Norwegian companies must not compete with both the worse framework conditions and the natural competitive disadvantage of having a location far away from the market. Well, in that case, it's a pleasure. I would be pleased if the Workers' Party were to change business tax policy in such a way that it could continue to be in Norway, continue to create jobs and values for society. The question is whether I can enjoy it. The Prime Minister referred to the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. There it emerges, among other things. the submission of a change to the alcohol charging system in order to promote lawful placing on the market and to limit border trade. However, it is also a fact that Sweden now needs to introduce EU tariff quotas and adapt to a different EU regulation by the end of 2003. This means that the level of taxes on alcohol in Sweden will be further reduced in the future. I expect this budget agreement to be binding, and that means, in that case, that the Stoltenberg government, in the context of the revised budget, must present significant reductions in the level of taxes on alcohol, so that the Nordics can legally trade this product at a decent price in Norway, and so that we can gradually get rid of the illegal marketing and production of alcohol, which at least does not serve the interests of society in any way. ‘Working shall pay off,’ said Stoltenberg, pointing out that ‘Norway must meet a new challenge: increasing labour shortage’. Does this mean that the Stoltenberg government intends to make better use of our labour resources? I noticed that he was busy reducing the administrative equipment – more service production, less administration. I expect that it means a thorough review of all the labour resources that are currently tied up in public administration, so that this can be more widely released for use in value-generating production. Can we enjoy it? Public health expenditure is growing more strongly than the growth of the Norwegian economy, which will be reinforced when the number of age pensioners increases in a few years. ‘This will require strong commitment to prioritize’ said Stoltenberg. And I agree. But it's not just about prioritizing, it's also about how we're going to ensure for the future that the state can meet the responsibilities of the people's security system. Does the government have any plans for fund placement of the population? In that case, it would be very interesting to know. We have set up both a people's fund and an oil fund, and this is often referred to as future pension funds. But does the Government have a plan for better organising this largest expenditure item for the State? «The revenue of the Communities shall be increased. However, money for important purposes cannot simply pass through increased public funds. We want to demand proper organisation and proper use of money. We need to think again and see if we can use the resources in a better way." said the Prime Minister. I agree with the heart. Too much of the sutring that has come from Municipality-Norway is happening without the municipalities being willing to look for their own values. For example, the municipalities own significant values that are linked to transport and power companies without the ownership itself having any concrete meaning or meaning for the municipalities. Realising the values will release huge values that can be used by municipalities to pay off debts and to invest in areas that are actually the responsibility of municipalities. For the sake of order, we asked Stortingen's investigation section to map the market value of the municipal holdings in transport and power companies, and these are estimated at the staggering sum of over 200 billion kroner. It's not small money. And when the Stoltenberg government invites for innovation and alternative use of resources, this is just an area in which there should be a stronger view, and in fact, demands are made to the municipalities that they realise before they ask for more money. The government would pursue an active district policy. Agriculture, fisheries, forests and energy resources were identified as areas to be modernised and, of course, this is absolutely necessary. But active district policy is also about people living in the districts and businesses located in the districts having the opportunity to be there. What, then, is the Government going to do with the crazy transport costs that, in particular, District Norway has to deal with? Does the government think it is right that the gas price now exceeds NOK 10, knowing that NOK 8 out of every $10 is going straight into the treasury in terms of taxes? And does the government think it's right that all the value creation that's going on in the districts, that's going to the central struts, are carried along roads that can almost be counted as crest paths? When has the Government planned to launch an offensive to invest in transportation, in constructive and good roadside solutions? The government will work for reforms in fiscal policy, where the target should be low rates, broader tax bases, simpler rules and fewer loopholes. Much of that sounds very good. These tax changes would contribute to fair distribution, innovation and more people choosing to work, said the Prime Minister. But I experience it in direct contradiction to parts of the Workers' Party's remarks in the budget position for the year 2000. There they wrote that the goal was to tighten up taxes, tighten up the sharing model, remove stock discounts, etc. And it's not compatible with the goal of innovation and competitive business. Therefore, I hope that it is the Prime Minister's words that apply, and not these comments from the Workers' Party's financial fraction. ‘The Norwegian State is a significant owner’, and ‘good management of the Community’s property requires the State to be a good owner’, said Stoltenberg. The Bank Investment Fund has been investigating for a long time what the future Norwegian banking structure will look like. Not long ago, the Workers' Party also said publicly that they excluded a merger between DnB and the Kreditskassen. It is thus acknowledged that DnB should form the basis of a large Norwegian unit since the state here owns 60 pst. already, and not least because the Postbank has also been integrated into the DnB. As a result, it seems clear that the credit card can be sold. It is important to avoid excessive public treatment, in particular because this contributes to a weakening of trust in other Norwegian companies. A short time ago, the Labour Party spokesperson of banking policy, Ranveig Frøiland, said that it was important to avoid this exasperation. But you can now safely say that we have come there – we have come into a situation where Norwegian ownership is under test in relation to other investors. I have registered that the new Minister of Finance and the Workers' Party have declared the need for action, and I therefore allow myself to address proposal No. 5, which is distributed in the hall, that the Storting is now empowering the Government to sell the shares of the Credit Fund as soon as possible. There's no need to hesitate any more. Finally, today, Norway’s Bank has presented its quarterly inflation report, and the Governor announces that the next interest rate change is likely to be an increase in interest rates because of pressure on the Norwegian economy. The central bank manager in particular refers to persistently high oil prices. And he also shows that this must have implications for the design of next year's government budget. But it shows that we have now turned monetary policy into an inflation target, because it is the domestic price trend that is decisive for the determination of the Norwegian interest rate level, and not the development of the krone price in relation to the euro. The test will now be how the Storting reacts to an interest rate increase by the Bank of Norway and not an interest rate reduction. However, it also confirms that an inflation target in itself does not result in fiscal policy not being important — on the contrary, it underlines the responsibility of fiscal policy when the central bank manager clearly states that fiscal policy must deliver its own in order for price developments to be as stable as possible in Norway. And when he refers in particular to the development of oil prices, it becomes quite incomprehensible when they choose to maintain a sky-high level of charges, for example. petrol and diesel, which are directly fuelled by inflation. The Progress Party has two proposals to reduce this situation for consideration in Stortinget. If the Stortinge is serious about taking responsibility for fiscal policy, then these proposals must be adopted so that we can help to ensure the lowest possible price increase, thereby ensuring that the Bank of Norway does not set up interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-23.ana.ud2180e1513	The time for this morning's meeting is up – and I guess so. The meeting will now be cancelled. A new meeting will be scheduled at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
