ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e64	Former Deputy Mayor Edvard Magnus Edvardsen is dead, 89 years old. Edvard Magnus Edvardsen was active in politics throughout his adult life. From 1965 to 1977 he met as a payroll representative for the Workers' Party from Rogaland. Before that, he had been an alternate since 1945. Edvard Magnus Edvardsen was born in Egersund on 18 December 1910. His father, who was a fisherman, was gone by the sea when his son was 12 years old, and Edvard had to take responsibility for his mother and sister early. In his early years, he studied technical evening school and went to school as a shoemaker. Then he worked as a shoemaker for many years. Through the AUF, Edvardsen came early into political work, and he was eventually given a long line of trust within the Workers' Party. He became chairman of the Egersund Workers' Party, a member of the board of Rogaland County Party and a member of the National Government of the Norwegian Workers' Party. From 1938 to 1964 he was a member of the City Council and the Presidency of Egersund, only interrupted by the war years. From 1946 to 1951 he was the rapporteur in Egersund, and he was then one of the youngest rapporteurs in the country. Illegal resistance during the war led him as a prisoner to Grini. There he quickly joined the circle around Einar Gerhardsen, where the main lines of post-war welfare and social policy were discussed. His social political commitment kept Edvardsen alive, and he was known as a spokesman for the most difficult in society. At Stortinget he started as a member of the Judicial Committee, where he was particularly committed to improving the status of civil servants. He became a member of the Social Committee in 1969, and here he sat for two periods. It was probably the work of the social committee that engaged him most strongly, and he made an important effort in the field of social security. He was recognized as the most knowledgeable member of the Labour Party’s mainstreaming group in social and social legislation. Edvardsen was also very concerned about the abstinence, and from a young age he was actively with the IOGT in the hometown. He was also a member of the Workers' Confederation and the Stortingets' Abhaltsgruppe. Edvard Magnus Edvardsen resumed his local political function when he ended up on the Stortinget at the age of 67. Not least, the pensioners' living conditions now occupied him, and as a member of the pensioners' council, he was given the opportunity to engage with the elderly in the hometown. He was also a member of the local government in Egersund until 1995. Then he was 85 years old. That same year he was appointed an honorary member of the Norwegian Labour Party. Thoroughness and honesty marked his political work. With his sympathetic performance and his winning being, he gained general confidence over the party boundaries. For him, factual and well-substantiated argumentation was more important than the rhetorical touch. This trait enabled him to build political alliances and thus achieve concrete results for the benefit of those who were closest to his heart, the most difficult ones. It is in deep respect that we bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech. Election of the president of the set
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e88	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e93	I propose Ursula Evjes as President of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e100	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e121	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with a response after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group and after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. –
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e128	These are the constant changes that are the greatest change in international society after the Cold War. The new situation does not give room for many or long sleets. We need to focus on the fact that foreign policy is more than ever involved in long-term processes. If we're just going to attend where the final decisions are taken, we're going to have little to say. The challenge is to create ‘stability and predictability’ in this changing landscape. In Europe, the EU has created a form of order, in the sense that changes and reforms are taking place within fixed institutions and frameworks. The EU has seen processes in systems. We're not in there. Therefore, it is natural that the Minister of Foreign Affairs spent so much time on the EU in his briefing to the Stortinget. I also want to spend a lot of time working with you. Others will address other questions, and the Balkans will have our own debate on in Stortinget on 16 March. If we look at the EU just as a bureaucratic machine that spews out useful and useless decisions, we have lost one of the most important aspects of cooperation. It's the dynamic, it's the many conversations, it's the flood of information coming out of the many conversations, which are the backbone of the collaboration. It is this sea of hops that creates a common agenda and breaks down borders. There is this big dialogue that makes it possible to keep the cooperation going on and on. It is this dynamic that means that those who say that a must wait and see, or wait for a clarification of this or a hint, must always wait for a new clarification. It's this that's the greatest difference between being with and not being involved in the collaboration. If you're in, you're forced into these political processes. But no one is asking us, we have to take the initiative ourselves. This is not a replay of a membership initiative, but a commitment to keep track of the results of the referendum. It is a provision for the maintenance of fundamental national interests. Thorbjørn Igland has initiated a dialogue across old borders in the EU debate. This is a follow-up, and I challenge the government to do the same. The government has not appeared with a striking offensive for Norwegian interests in relation to Europe. This is not to say that the result is always bad; on the contrary, the result of the effort can be quite good. But the will to take initiatives on my own is what I want. Or maybe it's just that the government doesn't want to share this willingness of initiative with others, and that this is the problem. For example: The government began by giving the impression of being negative to cooperation with the EU in the Schengen police and border cooperation. Now I see that the Prime Minister emphasises that this cooperation makes Norway a partner in what he calls the important judicial and police cooperation in the EU. The government started by giving the impression that one would not cooperate with Europol. There is now a proposal from the United Kingdom that underlines the need for a cooperation agreement with Europol. It appears that the government did not think it was so important to cooperate with the drug unit in the EU. Now we have a proposal for cooperation on the table that highlights cooperation with the drug unit as very important, in fact far more important than I ever thought it would be. I thought that the Government would introduce a new practice in relation to individual decisions under the EEA Agreement where one would use the right to reserve against EU laws more than before, but practices have not changed. The EEA Agreement has been extended. We did not get the impression of great commitment to the Government after the United Kingdom and France in Saint-Malo agreed to speed up foreign and security policy cooperation in Europe, but there was quite a different pace in the government when the EU actually speeded up cooperation after the Cologne Summit last summer. In briefing the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom, Mr Stortinget said about the strengthening of cooperation in the EU on defence and security policy: ‘Development could result in the EU countries gradually discussing important issues between themselves and increasingly meeting with coordinated positions in the alliance. Such developments will obviously have a significant impact on Norwegian interests.’» This is a very large understatement, but also a very important observation of Norwegian interests. This is an alert for a NATO on two pillars - the US and the European. This is one of the main challenges for Norway in European cooperation so far. The Foreign Minister also said: «The Government welcomes this development. In our view, increasing European capacity for crisis management will strengthen our common security. That is exactly why we want to make our contribution and take our share of responsibility and risk." We are fully committed to the foreign minister's position on this issue. On the extension of the EU, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘However, there can be no doubt that security and economic and social stability across a larger part of Europe will be of great importance to Norway as well. Therefore, it is in our interest that the enlargement process evolves in a way that does not create new undesired dividing lines. The government wants Norway to make an active contribution to this through the tools and opportunities available to us, in our bilateral cooperation with the candidate countries and in international organisations. Through this work, we take care of Norwegian foreign policy interests, while at the same time making our contribution to development in Europe.’ We're also completely in agreement with this observation. It was probably also this prime minister, in his speech in Germany, who said that Norway should be a partner for the EU to participate in the extension of the organisation. With these results, we might expect a more offensive European policy from the Government. It requires concrete action and new initiatives, but the last two referees are very positive steps. – This must also mean that we do not sell Norway as a ‘other country’ in Europe, firstly because it is not true, and secondly because it does not feel our interests. We have just said no to membership in two referendums, but the result was about 50-50, as it was in very many countries – and as it was in a country that had a referendum on the Maastricht agreements as well. The arguments in Norway did not differ significantly from those found in other countries that had e.g. referendum on the Maastricht Agreement. All EU co-operation countries are ‘other’. It's this thing that's a lot of stuff. It's this lack that we're looking for close cooperation with. That's this cooperation the Prime Minister thinks it's consensus or deal about in Norwegian politics. When most neighbouring countries now become part of pre-membership arrangements, this must have consequences for our cooperation with these neighbouring countries. These countries will now have access to new economic resources and will have access to new policy bodies in the EU. So it's a little bit of a point for us to equate these countries with e.g. Russia. In practical terms, we ask the Government to put forward a strategy for cooperation with the applicant countries, especially those around the Baltic Sea. We also ask the Government to put forward a new Russia strategy, built among others. on the lessons we have from the last few years. Probably that was what the Foreign Minister called for in his orientation. I'm just asking for a confirmation of the last one. Developments in Russia are decisive for stability in the rest of Europe. We have a particular interest in developments in Russia. This is particularly important for Norway as a neighbouring country and as a neighbour of an area of Russia that does not get smaller but rather more important in military terms. It is not for confrontation with Russia that we need cooperation in Europe. We need more cooperation in Europe to strengthen cooperation with Russia. Each of the European small countries cannot handle this separately. We must help fill the northern dimension of the EU with content and become partners in this work. This must be part of the Russia strategy. I don't have time to go into the lessons with the OSSE a lot. Others will discuss it later in the debate. I just want to finish by congratulating the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on their efforts over the last year. I have previously warned against putting the OSCE into impossible situations. Probably both Kosovo and Chechnya were examples of such impossible situations. The strength of this organisation is to help avoid conflicts, possibly to be with and to sew together communities torn apart by armed conflicts. It was such a very difficult task that Norway took over and was managed in a way from the Norwegian Presidency. Now the Presidency is over. It is a fact that Norway was brought into a series of meeting rooms where someone else might not have room, and brought up at the meeting table more than a normal one — that period is now over. Norway will be in a different situation in many contexts. I would ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, if possible, to give an assessment of what it will have to say about the influence of Norway and the potential to promote Norway's interests in the time to come, when one is now out of these meeting rooms where one was brought in by being President of the OSCE.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e191	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e194	I would like to ask the representative of Blankenborg, since he spoke about Russia: I draw attention to the fact that Russia has become a member of the Council of Europe. We did not recommend it in the Progress Party, because we felt that Russia did not satisfy the criteria, in particular with regard to human rights, which were necessary to enter the Council of Europe. But others argued that if there was a lack of human rights in Russia, there was better contact, and it was hoped that membership would improve the human rights situation in Russia. So in the meantime, they've once again been attacked by their own countrymen in Chechnya. We'll keep in touch. We do not want to throw them out of the Council of Europe either. The reasoning is that the worse the countries are, the greater the reason for bringing them into the Council of Europe, so that we can improve them there through contacts. This is in quite a contrast to our attitude towards Yugoslavia, which has behaved in the same way, and which we have isolated. This is a typical example of a double moral standard from which, in my time in the Council of Europe, we took a strong distance. But now both a double standard and the policy that the worse a state is, the more it belongs in the Council of Europe. I'd like to hear it, sir. The view of Blankenborg on our policy on Russia and the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e205	It is important that a continuous assessment of how Russia and other members of the Council of Europe are able to fulfil their obligations in relation to the Council of Europe. I rarely think particularly well what I have said in previous articles, fortunately. But just in the debate on letting Russia become a member of the Council of Europe, I think I would point out that this could also be a way in, where we laid a double standard on the requirements of the Council of Europe. Just by Russia's size and Russia's power, it was important to bring Russia, but one also had to admit that Russia, by power and size, could be a lot harder to deal with than a small, universal European small country. I think that was an important commitment for Russia to join, and that will still be the case. I still believe that power is important, size is important, and that it would be difficult to deal with Russia exactly on the same line with what one might do with other small states. This is part of the reality of power, in my opinion. This does not mean that one should not shed light on Russian policies that are contrary to the requirements of the Council of Europe, but one must also consider possible countermeasures in the light of the effects it will have. If it has no effect, it may not have any meaning, for example. to discuss a suspension of Russia. This is also the same view I personally have of the EU initiative on sanctions against Russia. I strongly doubt whether this is a sensible way to go, in the sense that it can lead to changes in Russian policy. However, this leads to a somewhat better conscience in EU policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e212	The representative of Blankenborg put the centre of gravity in his speech on EU-related issues — that is all there is to be done. The EU enlargement process also affects Norway and Norwegian interests. An enlargement of the EU also means a corresponding enlargement of the EEA. The EEA Agreement is a dynamic agreement that is constantly being developed, new elements are being added, and it is important that a government follow closely the new themes included in the EEA Agreement and the provisions which will also have an impact on Norwegian interests. For this reason, the Minister for Foreign Affairs also underlined the importance of maintaining close contact and dialogue, as well as cooperation with the labour and business sectors in Norway in order to safeguard Norwegian interests. This applies not least to fish, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs specifically mentioned. Then comes the claim from Blankenborg that one cannot see that there is some striking initiative – I think that is the word he used – on EU-related issues. And he made this concrete in relation to Schengen, Europol, drug cooperation and the enlargement process. At the same time, however, Blankenborg sums up these impressions by commending both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the initiative and opinions that have come in different contexts, and for the manner in which this has been followed up. It is therefore not so easy to get a concrete idea of what the dissatisfaction, this critique, is, and I would like to challenge Blankenborg to be more specific about what is missing from the government's initiative. Finally, I would like to ask Blankenborg about this demand from Jagland yesterday, through the Newspaper, that one should renegotiate the EEA Agreement – an agreement that is still evolving dynamically, but which, therefore, the head of the Workers' Party and the parliamentary leader believe should be renegotiated: what is it in such a statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e221	It's possible, sir. Stone snow remembers the discussion about location or relocation. The question of negotiation or renegotiation is about the same calibre, because here there is a question of what to negotiate. What Steensnæs says is also on the edge of being correct, because the EEA Agreement is not being changed – that is, the Treaty itself is not being amended – but there are a number of annexes that are being rolled on. This means that it is exactly the same as Iland says that it must be negotiated, linked to the EEA Agreement, because the EFTA countries will come into a new situation when the EU is enlarged eastwards. The text of the tract itself cannot and should not be renegotiated. But there has to be negotiations. Call for renegotiation with the EU in a number of areas, for example: free trade in European countries. This is just as interesting to discuss, as I said, as locating or relocalization – except for the law and that we have a concrete case at this point. So there's a question of dissatisfaction with the Government. I'm not so dissatisfied with the government's results always, as I said, but what I want is initiative. If there is a self-starter on EU issues in the Government, it is the one I am calling for, too much of the initiative has come after a discussion, and then has a set of things going on. However, the programme formulations and declarations – not necessarily from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but from the parties – have pointed in some way against what has been achieved. The result may sometimes be quite brilliant, for example: This has been achieved when it comes to Schengen, and it has been achieved so far in relation to the defence and security policy. But it wasn't the good luck of the government party when this debate started.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e228	The representative of Blankenburg was in his speech on what is now going on in Europe to strengthen Europe’s ability to deal with crises in its own area, and how necessary Norway is to be involved in this. This is closely linked to the burden-sharing across the Atlantic, the need for Europe to take a greater share of the responsibility for its security and for the ability to take on such operations as may be relevant. This huge difference over the Atlantic was very clearly illustrated in Kosovo, where the United States stood for something like 80 pst. of the sharp capacity necessary in that context. Europe has 370 million. The US is 270 million, yet the US defence budget is twice the size of Europe. This illustrates that if something is going to happen out of a new burden-sharing, these are the colossal resources involved. It is an enormous power that must be taken, if at all, in terms of burden-sharing, on the part of Europe. And my question to the representative of Blankenburg is whether the Labour Party realizes this. If this is going to be more than empty speech, this has to be for forceps and resources, and Norway has to take its part.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e233	I agree with the representative of Godal that a better burden-sharing between the United States and Europe is necessary and that stronger cooperation in Europe is necessary in order for such burden-sharing to take place. This is a question of new resources in part, but there is also a question of distribution in Europe. Norway is still relatively high in terms of gross domestic product when it comes to pure defence expenditure. I do not take a position on how these should be in the future, but I note that other countries are much lower. In other words, these are issues of both work sharing and access to new resources. But the starting point for Europe to take on greater responsibility is that I agree that stronger cooperation is also necessary for such a responsibility to be taken into account, so that one can develop the necessary capacities to relieve the United States of America in such a context. I believe, however, that such stronger European cooperation is a means of preserving the alliance and American presence in Europe. Without stronger European cooperation and a greater European lift, we could risk the American willingness to participate in the alliance being weakened, and we could risk the United States paying less attention to one of the few international organisations in which the United States actually commits itself fully. That is why European cooperation is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e238	The chairperson of the Committee spent a lot of time on Norway’s relationship with the EU. He showed, among other things: to the initiative taken by the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, and also clarified, like Jagland, that this is not a matter of Norwegian membership. The party leader's recent, fresh output is downgraded to a dialogue. However, it is difficult to see that Thorbjørn Jagland’s lectures in the Oslo Labour Party International Forum are not really a matter of Norwegian EU membership, because the Labour Party leader sees the need – according to the Evening Post – to change the Workers’ Party’s programme in order to allow the Workers’ Party to enter into membership, and this is a debate such as: clearly intends to achieve what is referred to as ‘a change of mood in Norwegian opinion’. How does the Chairman of the Committee feel it is possible to hold such a debate? A debate aimed at achieving a change of mood, a debate aimed at getting more room for action so that membership can be applied for – how in the world should such a debate be conducted without actually becoming a debate on membership? That is my question to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e244	I believe it is possible to hold such a debate only if one does not fear the conclusion. Because if one is based on what is Norwegian interest and development in Europe, it is important that one has an opening for all eventualities – a membership if necessary, but it is equally likely that no membership is necessary. Well, that's what I have the impression that all parties, with the exception of perhaps the Central Party, are now trying to put up in front of their national meetings: a Europe-debate where change in Europe and in Norwegian needs is a starting point, and where one does not fear the conclusion, if it is an opening for membership. But opening up membership is something other than initiating an application, and that is the fundamental difference. It's possible to discuss, but then a not afraid conclusion has to be reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e249	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee has introduced a whole new requirement for us when we're engaged in politics, and it's that there's always going to be happiness out of our eyes every time we do it. And I will not ignore the fact that some of the Norwegian Workers' Party's businesses may also be difficult to operate on that basis. Yesterday I asked the Minister of Culture about the Internet. The answer I received was that she was waiting for the last directives from Brussels, and entirely left Norwegian policy in the hands of the EU on that issue. When I mention this, it's because the differences between the Workers' Party and the current government on the issues we're discussing here today, are really very small. And the dialogue that Thorbjørn Jagland has called for will hardly serve to create strong fronts on the basis of very small differences. In the issues raised most, namely the debate on the EEA agreement based on fish, there is no one in this House, I am aware, who disagrees that we should try to get better fishing solutions if Eastern Europe joins the EU. And as far as security policy is concerned, there is no real difference between the Government and the Workers' Party, as I can judge it. If what Thorbjørn Jagland called for in the Oslo Workers' Party, was a dialogue across old divisions, it makes sense, and I agree that there is something we should have. But I think that's a couple of conditions for that to be the case. One is to accept that such a dialogue requires time, that there is no need to rush to a clear conclusion at an early stage. The second is that one accepts that the dialogue is characterized by the will of reasoning, that there is something somewhat relaxed about that dialogue, and that it is not characterized by the fact that someone is standing and tripping tremendously after becoming a member of the EU at the earliest possible time. I think that will actually end up with the real will for dialogue which must be there and there, and which must be based on summarising experience when the European Union has adopted the euro and, if necessary, on enlargement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e258	I can hardly imagine something that gives me greater happiness than going to the party meeting in SV or in the Labour Party, where we do have something in common, and it probably reflects the policy of the two parties. We must certainly help to ensure that Erik Solheim also has time on the European Union issue. No one has said that this should be resolved within a given timeframe – four years or anything. I agree entirely with Erik Solheim that such a debate must be based on reasoning and on assessments of the actual situation. But then there is also the premise that one does not fear the conclusion. The most logical conclusion is that one does not commit to either one or the other solution, but that one dares to assess the situation in Europe and Norway, drawing the conclusion when it is necessary to draw the conclusions. Nor, for one, can it be possible for a leading country to say a forced situation in which, if necessary, one could weaken Norway’s negotiating position. Nor is it necessarily a good idea that a sell out all the negotiation cards in all contexts by locking Norway’s position for all the world, so that one does not have the card to use in the international context. The consequence of what we have done with regard to our cooperation with the European Union is that we are in a constant negotiating situation with the European Union on big and small issues. Then it might be wise to have the opening that Thorbjørn Jagland was looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e265	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e268	This is the first statement after the OSCE Presidency was over, and it seems that the Minister for Foreign Affairs then sat down and asked the question, what are we doing now? And if I read the statement correctly, he's not quite sure of the answer yet. It is a well-defined review of a number of themes, but it is not exactly a policy document. It's an interesting review of the situation in Russia and an interesting review of the relationship with the United States, but in both cases the political, operational statements boil down to one-line conclusions. The Secretary of State spends a lot of time on the OSCE, and I understand that. There was no lack of ambition when you started. As the Prime Minister said in his 1998 ARENA speech: the Presidency will give us the opportunity to take our share of responsibility for security and stability in Europe, it will place us at the centre of political events to the extent that we otherwise rarely experience. And there's no doubt that it put us in the center of events, and I think when the whole real presidency is over, that once again there's reason to give praise to the Government and to the Foreign Minister for the way it all was handled. The government has all the honor of that. But we must realize that we are now through the centre of events, and with the pace of development in Europe now, it will not take long to get on the outside again. The safest thing we can say about the OSCE is that the organisation's development is a matter for the future and largely dependent on other nations laying down as much work and resources to streamline it as we did. And we have no guarantee of that. I think I disagree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he claims that the OSCE Presidency has given us the opportunity to take responsibility for security in our part of the world. It is at best a date stamp on this responsibility, because the reality was fast on the fact that in Kosovo, which was the big and dominant issue last year – yes, the OSCE had hardly any visible role in the Balkans, it was NATO and the EU that became the important ones, through the KFOR and the Stability Pact. When a new transmission team is now under construction, the Norwegian contribution is also very small. I think we need to see in our eyes that it is not the OSCE that gives us the real and lasting partnership in Europe, it is just participation in the design of the European Economic and Security Community that gives us that, and at that point Norway has a long way to go. That's also why NATO cooperation carries the weight of our foreign policy commitment and our orientation to a completely different degree than it does almost any other NATO member country. I am the case rapporteur for the 1998 notification, and I note that all the issues that were then important went into new and even more important phases during the period of time that the notification does not cover. This is enlargement, where three Member States were involved, and I would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of continuing enlargement. This concerns Kosovo. This is the strategic concept, where I would like to take the opportunity to stress that our ability to participate in crisis management in Europe is just a function of our membership of NATO. And not least, it concerns European security and defence cooperation, which reached a peak in Helsinki just before Christmas. At that point the Foreign Minister had a very interesting and concerned observation, for he said the following: ‘Development could result in the EU countries gradually discussing important issues between themselves and increasingly meeting with coordinated positions in the alliance. Such a development would obviously have a significant impact on Norwegian interests. This may affect one of the pillars of Norwegian security policy, namely the central role of NATO in all issues relating to its own security. The Government is working to ensure that the solutions and forms of cooperation currently being developed do not weaken NATO’s position as the central forum for discussion of defence and security issues.’;» It is very interesting that the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this way admits that we can get into a difficult squeeze here. I'm aware that the government is working to try to do something about this, but the fundamental question is, are you really finding a proper solution? And here we are at the core of what was discussed in the line change just before my post. Although the Government is now trying to find solutions that connect us to at least parts of this cooperation, that is, the Petersberg tasks, is the question: is there any solution to this than a fully Norwegian membership of the European Union? I'm not saying we're going to address this question, but I think it's very important for the open debate we're going to have on these issues, that it's a willingness to recognize what the actual solution is. I have noticed that many in recent times have wanted a Europe debate, but then they say: there must be no debate on membership. And I agree so much. As the Europe that I am, I believe that a membership issue should only be addressed when it is reasonably certain that we will have a different solution. But I would like to remind you that we have had Europe debates all along since 1994, on the EEA, on Schengen, on police cooperation, on drug cooperation and now on cooperation in defence and security policy. But the very point is that the perfect solution is at least we have to have intellect or openness enough to recognize what is, and that is membership. I think it is important to allow this also to be part of the debate. I agree with Erik Solheim that I believe it is very important that the debate be conducted in such a way as to be willing to see more solutions and that there is a willingness to bring about maturity. But I also think you're going to see in your eyes that some things have just one solution, and I think that on this fundamental question, we're facing this event. Now I belong to those who believe that the development of European security and defence cooperation is good, although this creates problems for Norway – simply because it is important for Europeans to come together and coordinate their resources. With the numbers Godal gave in his lineword shift just ahead, you understand how important it is. It gives Americans the phone number they have always wanted in Europe, and in that way this will be the right idea. I have noticed correctly that some parties, such as the Advance Party, are deeply skeptical of this. I've been in a TV debate where Carl I. Hagen said he wasn't so concerned about what the Europeans were doing, because he thought we were just getting to develop a special relationship with Washington anyway. It sounds good, but all those who have been in Washington lately know that for the Americans Europe is – some of their own Norway policies are not so likely to develop. Besides, if you were to do that, there's no special rise in Washington to highlight the Cuban human vision as the Norwegian superior. To this extent, I have also encountered marginalisation problems of a different nature. I think it was very interesting that despite the fact that Norway is the chairman of the Baltic Sea Council, Norway was cut off when the Nordics and Germany joined forces to discuss completely concrete solutions for transport cooperation in our part of the world. And so it happens despite the fact that in that area too, the government had quite extensive views a few years ago about the new Nordic cooperation that would come when the three Nordic members of the EU became fully warm in the trough. Then it happened that they got hot in the sweat, and Norway was cut out on questions that matter to us. That's what reality has become for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e313	Now I think the Right Leader is so wise on European development. The more eye-catching I think it was to read the statements of the representative Svein Ludvigsen to one of today's newspapers, where he says that there is nothing in the actual European development that suggests that the head of the Workers' Party came into a lecture a short time ago. He more than suggests that this was a play-out for internal medical reasons in the Workers' Party. Can I interpret the contributions of the Right Leader today as a comment on this, and that he is actually taking a distance from such a childish point of view – whether it is a legitimate expression, President?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e318	If Bjørn Tore Godal is going to have an interpretation of why I talked about Europe as I did, then the explanation is that what I said about Europe here is a short and edited version of what I said about Europe at the Right's Last Central Board Meeting, where I just drew up the views about what I think Right should be interested in on the European scene of the time that comes. I expressed what I see as the concerns, and that is that we fall outside, not least in terms of participation, but especially in terms of the security and foreign policy challenge. I also spoke there, in the same way as today, in favour of the transparency that should be in the debate, and that we must recognise what the solution of the problems is. And like the European I've always been, I think it's important that we're open to this. With regard to the operational conclusions of the party programmes, I would just like to mention that the Right actually already has a formulation in the current major elections programme to allow these issues to be addressed when developments were due to take place. And we do that in the awareness that this is a question that the people will always have in their hands. But I am absolutely convinced that an open Europe debate, open to all solutions, is important for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e325	This word «human vision» I must admit that I do not like. It is extremely diffuse, and it is also Right that has introduced it in Norwegian political debate, in its characteristics of the immigration policy of the Progress Party, because we want to limit foreign cultural immigration to Norway. I want to say that if the point is that when you're going to evaluate human vision -- let me use it then -- I think it's very important to take on the basis of how you treat your elderly and sick. In this respect, I believe that we have come quite far in Cuba, especially when we consider that the economy is miserable, and especially when we consider what is still said in this Chamber, that Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. In that respect, I think Alvheim's remark there must be a wake-up call for someone to think about. And there's a significant number of witnesses in the press, people who've been to Cuba, who can confirm that in terms of health care, they've actually been pretty good. So now this has to be extended to democracy, etc., but that of course was not what Alvheim was thinking, and I think the representative Petersen really understood that very well. As for the importance of the United States, I basically also agree with what was referred to regarding Carl I. Hagen. And as far as cooperation in Europe is concerned, it is only these insignificant Petersberg issues that this cooperation is to cover, and not solidarity, Article 5, it remains in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e334	I actually didn't think Gundersen would take this up, but the more welcome, because it gives me the opportunity to say a little bit about the relationship with the United States and NATO. I am not in any doubt for a moment that our relationship with the United States is of very great importance, and that the one line's remark, or operational conclusion, which the Foreign Minister had in his statement, was enough in the shortest possible order. But I'm sure it'll be more on later occasions, so we'll come back to that. But my point is to the extent of expressing a lot of amazement – not that Gundersen expresses what he is doing about the relationship with Washington, but that to those degrees they are so negative to the efforts and interests of our other allies. And that was in many ways what struck me very clearly in the debate with Hagen. My point is that if the Progress Party believes that we should not operate within a common NATO framework, but develop a kind of bilateral relationship with Washington, because we are not interested in the European scene, there is a problem. I think you'll soon discover that in Washington not everyone is talking about Norway, yes, there are relatively few who are. They consider us part of Europe, and that is the context itself. But then my polemic point – which then lit Gundersen – was that if you first go to Washington and try to develop such a separate bilateral relationship outside the European context, I think it's just a fact that you have a problem if you think that Cuba has a human vision that surpasses the Norwegian. The Gundersen can probably explain this in Washington, but it can be pretty exciting. And my question is essentially whether I can get involved, because that's what I want to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e343	I agree with the representative Petersen on the European debate that it is important that we recognise the facts. Of course, this concerns the limitations that Petersen was most concerned with today, but it also concerns the possibilities and the positive aspects of the actual conditions, which Petersen unfortunately was less in. I get a strong feeling that when the Right and Petersen express impatience and perhaps also dissatisfaction with the state of things, and put in a more or less hidden criticism or dissatisfaction with the Government's handling of various European issues, there is just as much dissatisfaction with the answer given by the people in the referendum in relation to important premises for our European policy. I think it's important that you have a necessary recognition of the facts and what it implies by opportunities, but also what it actually means by constraints. This is a balance that we have to have with us. I agree that we must have an open, ongoing debate on European policy. I also agree with what Mr Blankenborg said, it must be a debate in which one does not fear the conclusions either. But it must also be a debate in which you respect the fact that the people have spoken and given clear instructions to the elected representatives. Then I am glad that Petersen took the time to give deserved commendation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in terms of well-performed work as the OSCE President. But I also noticed that the characterization of the statement fell into a well-known pattern, namely that any explanation from the government and government would be met with a predictable criticism. I think presentations could deserve a more nuanced assessment than the one Petersen took the time to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e353	Erik Solheim – no, the president regrets, it was probably a little fast; I assume that Mr. Petersen wants to answer the question. It was not an attempt by the President to reduce Mr. Petersen's role in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e356	The only thing that could justify it in that case was whether the president thought the questions fell on his own unfairness, but I'm going to answer them anyway. I understand as far as Steensnæs well, with the role he has here in the house, that he gradually feels that everything that is said is a criticism of the Government – and I think I have been so kind in the last few days I can only in both the one and the other case! To Steensnæs I would like to say: Relax! In fact, in the European question, I haven't actually talked about the Government at all – perhaps it's that disappointed. My point is actually to contribute to an understanding of the situation in Norway, because I often feel that this was talking about the Europe debate without membership means that there is no need to recognise that there are some problems with the solution that Norway has chosen through the referendum. I disagreed with that solution, and I think it is important that we are open and say that yes, there are some problems. All the emergency solutions that the government is trying to get within the framework it has to work for will never be enough, they will never get us the solution we're looking for. And I just recorded that when it came to defence and foreign cooperation, the Foreign Minister was open as to what the problem was, and I also quoted this. I think in many ways that Steensnæs at this point might have been a bit hypersensitive – not just maybe, he was definitely hypersensitive – on behalf of the Government. I'm guessing he was, too, when it came to the characteristics. I think if he goes through the statement, he'll find that you, for example. as regards the conclusion of the US discussion, there was no supplementary policy statement, and so was Russia. So I think he should take inward that it might not be all the world of politics in this, that in many ways it was a basis that was well written and good, but that there might still be some thinking before we can say that we have all the parts of Norwegian foreign policy well in place. But once again, the point is that we have simply taken away an important tool. We conduct Norwegian foreign policy with one hand tied to our backs, because we have said no to the very main cooperation institution on the European continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e367	So Erik Solheim to the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e370	The brother has not come so far that I can answer on behalf of Jan Petersen, so I can also bring him some questions. What always surprises you when you hear Right-wing talk about foreign policy issues is that it seems almost unimportant what Norway is going to do in the institutions we're in. So, it's crucial to be a member of NATO and to get into the EU, but we almost never hear anything about what the Right will use our membership of these institutions. I miss that every time, and I missed it today too. So, what's Norway's role? How are we going to affect? How are we going to affect our relationship with the United States? What are we going to do in the EU? But now leave it, and let's get to the point of Petersen's issue, namely the EU debate. The Foreign Affairs Committee is now coming back from a tour in Slovenia and Slovakia, and I think it gave us quite clear impressions on two points. One is the overwhelming positive impact the EU has on the political situation in these countries. The EU sets the standard for human rights – the EU affects, for example: Slovakia to a completely different level of respect for the reality and life of its eyes than they would otherwise have — and the EU also sets sensible economic objectives for these countries. On the other hand, we also come home with the impression that the processes will take much longer than some of this at home later that. The wording we usually heard was that we maintain the objective of EU membership in 2003, but implicitly: we do not really have faith in it, but expect to talk about 2004 and 2005, and then for the candidate countries that are first in the loop. Then it becomes incomprehensible why there is such a terrible hurry to talk in Norway about a debate that is not healthy. The unsound comes when Jan Petersen says that the only possible position for the intellectually open is membership. Yes, is that the starting point, how in the world should it be possible to have a meaningful exchange of views between the sides in Norway? Steensnæs and I belonged to the No-side in 1994. We cannot conduct a meaningful exchange based on the fact that only those who are on the yes side are intellectually open, as Jan Petersen says.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e381	After hearing this, I am in doubt about who is cold, whether it is me or Solheim. I thought it was me, but when I hear what he's saying, he can't possibly have heard what I said. I've been talking about membership in terms of the solution to some questions. The question I took as an example, which is example no. 1 is security and foreign policy cooperation. It's now up to discussion, it's being created, and we're going to try to find our place in this. And I can't believe that it might be a problem to say that the only adequate solution to Norway's problem with regard to this issue is membership. That's what I've been talking about. In this context, I have not raised any questions about new Norwegian applications. Because I think it's very important – and I think I said that too – that when that question might come up again, it's at a time when we know that people mean something different than the last time. But it must not lead to that when we talk about foreign and security policy, we do not recognize that all the emergency solutions we are now trying to achieve are just substitutes that can never be fully satisfied. We can take that recognition now, there's no reason to wait with it. So I don't understand Erik Solheim's point at this point. Then he didn't ask me why we never had opinions about what to use our membership for, but it doesn't make me answer. Because it was also a completely unreasonable premise, and I want to use an example. Is there any party in this room that has talked early and consistently about expansion issues in terms of NATO, it's just the Right. A typical example of what we wanted to use NATO for was to build the larger European and Atlantic community also in this area, and we helped push not least the Government to take more positive positions in that context. That's a very concrete example of what we want to use membership for. Therefore, this introduction was also completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e390	If I had a suspicion that Petersen's posts in this room were so strongly affected by his cold, I wouldn't have drawn twice. But he had been to the U.S. – I know that, sir. Petersen is often in the United States – and there he had not heard that they talked so much about Norway. Would that be an indication not to take Article 5 of the NATO Pact so seriously? There were probably not so many people in the United States who, when we visited the United States for a while back, talked so much about Chechnya, Serbia, Kosovo or Bosnia either. There was really nothing to talk about, it was peace and tolerance. The fact that they are not talking about Norway may well mean that they do not consider the evolution that is taking place as a particular safety risk for Norway. And there is no reason to ask questions about whether Norway can no longer rely on the US security guarantee, and that for that reason we have to report to the EU. Or is that actually what Jan Petersen means?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e397	When I addressed this question, it was in the light of some TV debates on the relationship with European security and foreign policy, where the Chairman of the Progress Party has been involved in ideas about special bilateral events, because the Europeans were not so much to think about under any circumstances. My point was basically that I don't think it's particularly realistic, because it's, just as Gundersen is talking about, in the broad European-Atlantic cooperation we have our role -- just as part of NATO, where Article 5 works. That's the whole point. So that was part of the debate, but I'm not quite sure where the collided Gundersen and Hagen are at that point, so I'm not going to press the Gundersen on it. However, I would like to add that what I see as the main problem for Norway in terms of European security cooperation is not that it can create problems over the Atlantic, but on the contrary that it is developing in such a way on the European side that it becomes such an attractive partner for the Americans that we get an axis Brussels-Washington, where in many ways the big decisions are made, and then it will be up to a few of us who are not part of this axis, to take the position as a kind of B member in this Atlantic community. And that's what concerns me in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e407	There has been a general perception in Stortinget that Norwegian membership of the EU was decided through the referendum and that there is currently no current debate topic. The Progress Party has programmed that if Norway is to reapply for membership, a referendum on such an application must first be held and that such a referendum is not relevant unless there are significant changes of opinion in the Norwegian population. I assume that this position is shared by the great majority of the Stortinget. Nevertheless, this no waiting attitude should not hold us back from an open discussion of our relationship with the EU. The size of its broad national and international contact area must be assumed to be obliged to communicate facts and views relevant to Norwegian membership as well. For six years now, we have had our experience of the EEA Agreement and can see that it ensures our business life equivalent access to the EU's internal market, but with certain exceptions, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. The EEA Agreement establishes, as is known, a market for industrial products, services, workers and capital. What is largely excluded are agricultural products and processed fish products. We, who have been members of the EEA Committee of Stortingen, have found that a number of Norwegian laws and, above all, regulations have been amended as a result of the EEA Agreement. Most of these new legal rules would have changed the same way even if we had not joined the EEA. It would have been necessary, simply to sell our products on our sovereign largest export market. With regard to EEA rules that we would not have adopted if they had not come to us through the EEA, most of them are of such a nature that we have no significant objections, and we have not registered any significant adverse effects of making the rules into Norwegian law. In general, there are rules that have been thoroughly investigated both in the EU countries on a national basis and in the EU bureaucracy, which, by the way, hold a great deal of information and maintain a very high quality level. There are significant three elements that distinguish us from membership in the internal market. The first concerns influence with regard to the preparation of the legal rules. Here we have placed a handicap in relation to EU members. To what extent this disability has damaged Norway in six years, I know little about it, and I don't know about anyone else who has qualified knowledge of this either. A major problem for Norway has hardly been so far. Moreover, it must be assumed that the most important rules relating to the internal market are now given everything. The second element is that no EEA rules become Norwegian law without their adoption in Norway in the manner provided for by the Constitution. It gives us a good feeling that we have taken care of our national sovereignty, but it really means little and leads primarily to extra legislative work, which creates delays. The third important difference from membership is that the EEA grants us a right of veto in the sense that we have access to veto against the fact that already adopted Community rules become EEA law and thus binding on Norway. We have not yet used this so-called veto right, and you can ask yourself what it really is worth in practice. The EU point of view is that Norway has joined the single market fully aware that a single market can only work if certain legal rules are common. If the rules are not common, the differing rules would prevent certain goods from being exported or imported. Note that EU countries themselves have no veto rights. If a decision in the EU is taken by a qualified majority, the States which have voted against shall have no veto right and shall be bound by the majority decision without delay. If Norway were to exercise the right of veto, which is, of course, enshrined in the Treaty, it would have a privileged position in the internal market. In the EU, the impression would be that Norway is only out to pick the raisins out of the sausage. It may seem that the internal market is respected only as far as Norway sees fit. The fact that Norway is preventing a Community rule from becoming EEA law could lead to the EU being unable to export the product in question to Norway. I think we can conclude that we had a better position on the internal market as an EU member than just through the EEA Agreement. However, as a member of the European Union, we must also have accepted the common agricultural policy, including the fisheries policy. Here the situation has changed considerably since the referendum. The importance of agriculture for the Norwegian economy has been greatly reduced in relation to the importance of fish. The future of agriculture will be less and less determined by the EU, but more and more through WTO negotiations, where the EU is allied with Norway. The value of ensuring free trade for processed fish products in the EU is increasing each year, while Norwegian agriculture is becoming less and less disadvantageous by joining the common agricultural policy in the EU. This is clearly underlined by the fact that there are now some 1,200 milk quotas for sale and the problems of border trade with Sweden, which must eventually have an impact on Norwegian agricultural policy. Monetary union, EMU, is in fact part of the internal market as the single currency is expected to facilitate cross-border trade. Since Norwegian membership of the EU has not been relevant, we have also had no significant debate on EMU. Here we are facing an uncertainty. Whether we are in the EU or not, problems with the euro currency could create major problems for Norwegian exports. In any case, we are pursuing an economic policy, and we have been doing it for a long time, which would not create problems within EMU. But the EU is more than the internal market. It's about a union. The important elements of this Union are judicial cooperation, including Schengen cooperation, and the common foreign and security policy. The plans to transfer the tasks of the Western Union to military cooperation within the EU were confirmed at the recent Helsinki ministerial meeting. It was precisely this Union cooperation that was a main argument against membership before the last referendum. The paradox is that in these very areas Norway has done what it has been able to do to get as far into the EU’s decision-making process as possible and has been willing to take on significant commitments. In the field of defence and security policy, Norway may have significant negative effects on being outside the EU. But we have a great advantage of being outside the EU. We're obviously saving a lot of money – I'm going to assume $10 billion per. years. On the other hand, there are many people in Europe today who are increasingly reluctant to sit on our big money and our oil and gas reserves, but refuse to take part in the development and construction of a Europe. We should do something to compensate for this disadvantage. The best way we can do this is to be on top of putting modern equipment and soldiers at the disposal of international military operations under the UN and NATO. At least we should spend the money we save on not being a member of the EU, for such purposes. Our solidarity with the European States and the United States should not be called into question. You shouldn't get the impression that we to those degrees are ourselves enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e435	I would say – to the extent that it can be seen as a reward – that, at least, Mr. Gundersen never stops surprising. At least he's going to have it with his posts, that I'm always excited about what theme, what angle of incidence, he'll choose in the debate. In this way, he was also surprised this time by giving a lecture, relatively technical, with a balance for and against EU membership. I hope that this lecture, which was now held from the pulpit, is also a warning from Mr. The Gundersen's side that he now wants to engage his own big group and his own party, which so far has privatised the question of what position Norway should take on Europe and development within the European Union. It has not been possible to get any kind of guidance from the Progress Party, either when it was the last referendum we had, or later. I would therefore ask you, Mr President. Gundersen confirms that the Progress Party too is now taking this seriously. It has become such a big party that the Progress Party also realizes that it is important to take its responsibility and hold a debate in its own party, which, if not otherwise, should end up in some guidance also to the Norwegian people, and not only make it a nearly privatized question of life's vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e443	Siri Frost Sterri has no very good knowledge of what kind of debate is going on inside the Progress Party, so how she can comment on it, I don't know. As far as guidance is concerned, I confess – and she said that too – that this was a modest attempt on my part to tell others what I think I have found out. It didn't seem that she had anything to say about it. So I congratulate her on her posts!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e450	I think the representative, Mr Gundersen, had an interesting and balanced contribution, which also reflected some of the professional insights he has on various EU issues, where he has not always got right on the basis of professional judgement, and where the assessments of the political systems have obviously had to surprise the lawyer, Professor Fridtjof Frank Gundersen. Now leave it. I noticed that at the end he summed up some of the disadvantages and benefits in relation to EU membership, and he attached himself to the fact that we have to be economically satisfied that we, as a foreign country, are saving NOK 10 billion. But then the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen noticed that there is a growing dissatisfaction in Europe that the rich country of Norway is on huge resources and is not willing to share and participate in Europe, a criticism that could become more and more pronounced in this context. It is clear that this must be taken seriously, despite the fact that a person knows that some of the funds channelled into the EU system are not always managed in a way that one would like. The 10 billion kroner that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen mentioned are about exactly what is granted annually for assistance. There are funds that are sometimes put under criticism because they are not properly managed. But there is criticism – from different countries – that none of the enormous wealth we are sitting on is shared with poor countries that need these means to make good progress. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's party is one of the parties expressing criticism of Europe, but I have not seen any similar criticism of aid to other countries outside Europe. How does Fridtjof Frank Gundersen find a logical line in this reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e461	I must admit that this was a close comment on my post. Then I just have to say quite openly that a really strong objection the Progress Party has against the whole EU system, precisely these large transfers of money are taking place. There are almost no limits to how much money the European Union has allocated to the corrupt South Italy, where the money is simply scented. And there's an obvious fraud with agricultural subsidies, etc. It is the weakness of the EU itself that it is based on these transfers. What I referred to was basically just the impression I have got from politicians in the EU that they see with some disapproval that Norway will not participate in this subsidising of the poorer countries of Europe, and perhaps also later Eastern Europe and Central Europe. They're dissatisfied with that, and for example. The Germans wanted them to have company with the Norwegians, so they didn't have to pay that much on their own. It's a feeling that's there. I do not know whether Norway can help to compensate for this negative feeling among Europeans by paying even more in Africa. Maybe the replicator knows more about that than I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e468	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e471	1999 has undoubtedly been one of the most challenging years for Norwegian foreign policy and for the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs. The OSCE Presidency, the Presidency of the Barents Council and the Baltic Sea Council, the Middle East peace negotiations with the Oslo Summit as an important event, the war acts in Kosovo and Chechnya, the adaptation to NATO’s new defence policy concept, the EU enlargement process and enhanced security and defence policy cooperation within the European Union – all of this and more still on the foreign policy agenda last year and called for close follow-up and clear and concise management. Without dwelling too much on history, it must be allowed to sum up the situation of giving credit to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his crew for the way these significant challenges were addressed and for the positive profile this has given Norway in international terms. As you know, Norway is applying for a vacancy as a member of the United Nations Security Council. To the extent that there is no reward for successful work in the form of offers of positions and entries into important international forums. However, when Norway presents itself as a very interesting candidate for the vacancy in the Security Council, in competition with countries such as Italy and Ireland, this also reflects some of the respect and confidence that Norway has developed internationally, and the expectations that many countries place for the contributions that Norway can make through active high-level participation in the UN system. I would like to stress that such trust and position is, of course, not only linked to the efforts made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs but also reflects a competence and the important effort made over several years by various ministers in the way they have done this important work. Norway pursues an active foreign policy which, through various policy initiatives, has emerged again in the international picture. The Government's objective with foreign policy is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, to promote Norway's interests and security, to contribute to international peace and justice and to protect human rights. That, of course, is an ambitious objective. However, these objectives are both confirmed and concretely stated through the many and comprehensive leadership tasks undertaken internationally by Norway, and are also well reflected in the Minister of Foreign Affairs’ comprehensive travel programme. It is therefore natural that the presentation of foreign policy and security policy is both comprehensive and made up of various policy challenges. For my part, I would like to start from and emphasise our relationship with Russia, which was also an important focus of the Foreign Minister's presentation. Russia is in a difficult situation, both economically and politically. Unemployment is high, there are major unsolved health care tasks, and environmental problems are significant, particularly in the north. This is important for the assessment of the entire security policy image in Europe. However, it particularly affects Norway as a neighbour where opportunities for enhanced cooperation and trade include: will depend on the success of establishing a stable democracy, developing well-functioning markets and gaining control of the significant environmental problems associated with both industry and nuclear energy production. Ten years ago, the border with Russia was almost closed. Last year it was approx. 130000 persons crossing this border between Norway and Russia. It is an important point to actively involve Russia in European and international cooperation. Barent cooperation was started with great optimism and confidence that concrete results would subsequently be reported. We have to admit that the result has changed. Industrial cooperation faces many obstacles, environmental problems are at stake, and the development of democracy is slow, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs has also explained. In other areas, a more positive result has been achieved. Norway has made a strong commitment to the EU’s efforts to develop the northern dimension and to fill this concept with real content. In various areas, we want to strengthen the links that are important to link Russia, economic, political, cultural and in a people to people's cooperation. I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs announced a review of the experience, priorities and instruments of Norwegian Russian policy. When the aim of such a review is to achieve a more long-term, holistic and coordinated effort, this is a clear signal that the Government wants to get more out of the means and measures involved in this cooperation, thus contributing to a positive development in our neighbouring country. The most serious setback – not only in relation to democratic development and fundamental human rights, but also in relation to developing normal political and economic relations between Russia and the rest of Europe, the United States and other democratic states – is the war in Chechnya. This terrible war has led to inhuman suffering for the civilian population, and brutality has been escalated in an obvious hope of a fast-paced Russian victory over the Chechen rebel forces. Despite strong international pressure to seek a political solution to the conflict, the bombing of Groznyj continues with increasing intensity. The protests from the outside world seem to have little effect. The Council of Europe has also committed itself to what they call arbitrary bombing against civilian targets, and threatens that this could potentially cost Russia membership of the Council of Europe. I believe, for my part, like the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that it is also important in this difficult situation to maintain dialogue and keep open as much as possible of the channels available in cooperation with Russia, in order to be able to exert pressure and reach out with criticism, opinions and clear messages. We need a stable and strong Russia as an important contribution to ensuring a strong and stable Europe. But a Russia that abuses power, gives the impression of wanting to dominate, or tries to suppress fundamental human rights, is a threat both to close neighbours and to stability in a global context. Ten years after the fall of the wall, we can see that there have been major and positive changes that guarantee democratic rights for new peoples, for pluralism and for human rights – at least this applies to too many parts of our own continent. The cold war and the bipolar world order are behind us, and we no longer have the old enemy image dominated by a superpower confrontation on the European continent. The disappearance of the former block division has naturally eliminated the risk of a comprehensive, coordinated attack on Western Europe. At the same time, we see that the barriers to smaller armed conflicts in the former Communist countries are severely weakened. This policy development presents us with major challenges in the formulation of security policy. Of course, there are new, interesting opportunities for contact and cooperation across previous lines. However, other security policy challenges arise that do not only relate to uncertainty between countries. Risk factors such as environmental damage, possible terrorist activity against oil installations or accidents related to nuclear installations represent new challenges in safety policy arising from technological and political developments. We also see clear security policy challenges emerging when the traditional Communist regimes are dissolved, dictatorships fall, and new, young, vulnerable democracies strive to find a secure political foothold. In the wake of this, ethnic and religious conflicts arise that have been ‘frozen down’ under harsh, oppressive regimes. Enthusiasmed to have won national sovereignty, ethnic minority groups may resort to weapons to fight for their own independence and independence. This may have a dangerous infectious effect on other countries in the region. NATO is still Norway's main guarantor of peace and security in our part of the world. But there have been new cooperation organisations that complement and complement the important role of NATO. The change that NATO has made since the end of the Cold War has strengthened the alliance. The enlargement process and partner cooperation also mean that the values on which the Atlantic Pact is based – democracy, human rights and the rule of law – are strengthened throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. Both European and local security policies are undergoing transformation. Joint, solidarity efforts are necessary to ensure stability and peace in our part of the world. The objective is ambitious and demanding, but easy to express: through joint, solidarity efforts to provide the necessary stability and peace for all parts of the globe in which we are entrusted with a trusteeship, and share destiny.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e494	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e497	The representative Steensnæs points out that Russia must be involved in all areas, and that is perhaps the most important thing we can do now in terms of development and stability in Europe in our area. The border between Norway and Russia is probably the frontier in the world that distinguishes poverty and wealth in the most dramatic way, and that, of course, gives some perspectives. I am allowed to go back to the line change between the representative Steensnæs and the committee leader, Blankenborg, earlier today, where Steensnæs asked Blankenborg about what really lies in the criticism of the Government's EU policy. Now I did not feel that Blankenborg had any general criticism of the Government's EU policy, rather a mild wonder at how far the Government has managed to distance itself from its original positions regarding our relationship with the EU. What is being put forward as critical comments is that the Government seems to lack initiative for an active EU policy. There's too much of a wait and watch attitude in the government. Now and then it may seem that Norway has said no to the EU, but such an authority does not have the Norwegian people. Norway said no to Norwegian membership of the EU. But the EU lies there, as abastant and important part in all areas, so to speak, and we have to deal with the EU in an active and committed way. Then the representative of Blankenborg used a few examples, namely Schengen, drug cooperation and police cooperation, where he developed from a negative attitude in the Government to slow down, joined and eventually became enthusiastic. And that's what we see can be worth looking at. I have to ask the representative Steensnæs whether, in his opinion, it would have been an advantage if the Government had more had a somewhat more active political relationship with the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e508	In so far as I agree with the summary that the representative now gave to Mr Engebrets, that the kind of dissatisfaction we may well call it – or impatience with the Government in relation to relations with the European Union – is confined to what the representative Blankenborg called a lack of self-starter, or what the representative Mr Engreits called a lack of initiative. I must say I don't understand that criticism. The Government builds its relationship with the EU on the EEA Agreement and on the bilateral agreements with the EU, where different agreements intervene in different areas of society. In some areas, it is true that the Government has had a different view from that of the majority of the Storting, but the Government’s assessment has been that in these areas, the Government has not had any problem in managing the majority decisions taken by the Storing, for example. Schengen Agreements. With regard to the other issues referred to by the representative of the European Commission — both drug cooperation, police cooperation and I believe that Blankenborg also dealt with other issues — it may be a bit dependent on the ears that hear, what a sense of initiative and enthusiasm and commitment. I would say that the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement shows in a fully satisfactory way that the Government has an active relationship to safeguard Norway's interests in all the areas to which the representative referred. In particular, it concerns the important EEA Agreement, which I believe different groupings in Norwegian society and different political parties have gradually come to recognition of having been a sensible solution for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e515	I agree with the representative Steensnæs that I think the Government has done a fairly good job in relation to the EEA and the EU. On the other hand, I think that his considerations about Russia create problems. It was like no conclusion. It was not that I concluded so much when it came to the EU either, but Russia is a problem of a different nature. On the one hand, he describes the atrocities committed to the civilian population, and on the other hand, it is a question of withdrawing the Russians as much as possible, being kind and lovable to them, and involving them in conversations. If they continue to wage war against the civilians in the Caucasus and get worse and worse, are we going to be even more interested in withdrawing them? This is a very difficult balance, and many will simply declare it immoral. And then you have this that you consider Russia to be several states. Now we know that the Russians spend a lot of money on this warfare to slaughter the Chechens. Still, we're going to help them in the north, so they can free up money and energy to destroy people in the south. It is also a strange way of thinking, given that Russia is not one state, that if you help in the north, it is something quite different that they slaughter people in the south. So I don’t really see any very good connection in Steensnæs’ posts there, but I know that he’s a serious, thinking man, so I have hopes that something more can come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e522	I get to start with what I'm assuming is a common starting point, and where Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and I have the same assessment. It is the very description of what is now happening in Russia, the terrible war in Chechnya, the unacceptable conditions of human rights, the lack of democratic development and the advisability of slow progress both in the field of industrial development, economic development and political development. We know from a message yesterday that the Duma seems almost to have been out of play because of political alliances. This inhibits a development that I believe both Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and I agree is important both for us as a neighbour and for Europe as a whole. But what Gundersen's representative is dissatisfied with in my post concerns the context of the description and what I draw as a conclusion, possibly a lack of conclusion. I have to live with that, because Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and I have participated in debates on this earlier and exchanged affections in line changers without reaching an agreement. I think that is due to a different view of Russia's role, but perhaps not least a different view of what instruments will lead to in order to get developments in Russia into the right track within the modest role we are going to play in this context, of course, as a small country, but nevertheless as an active player, because we are also neighbours to Russia. My recipe is not isolation, not to deprive Russia of opportunities to participate in a network of different organisations and international forums, but to actively involve them. Only then do I think there's hope that we can get there, both with criticism, guidance and with comments that hopefully will be able to put the political process back on track.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e530	The right appreciates the fact that the representative Steensnæs now confirms, through his post, that the Christian People's Party is also concerned that Norway needs to develop its own Russia strategy, as has been pointed out for a while. However, this did not allow him to enter into the topic that has so far been a review theme in the debate today, namely the issue of Norway's relationship with the EU and the question of a new Europe debate. I will take from a quotation from the party leader of the Christian People's Party in the Official Journal of Bergen on 8 December last year, where she says: ‘This government will never apply for membership. And my no is stuck. But that doesn't mean that other governments can apply and that KrF can sit in government for it." I myself have been present at a meeting of the EPP Group within the EU, where Steensnæs confirmed the position of the Christian People's Party that the issue of membership is not of a principle nature for the Christian People's Party, but they see it as a practical issue. If there is a change in popular opinion, there will also be a change in the Christian People's Party. That's about what I got from what he said when the Christian People's Party was engaged as an observer in the EPP group. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party also sees the importance of gaining freedom of action in view of the next major election period in relation to our relationship with the European Union, that, as the Labour Party and the Right have done for the longest time, they will ensure that freedom of action through the electoral programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e542	It was a pity it was going to go so long before I reached the representative Siri Frost Sterri and Right with a confirmation that the Christian People's Party has had and wants to have a profiled and good Russia strategy. My post was nothing new. This was a follow-up to the Christian People's Party strategy. But she used most of her line to elude my and the Christian People's Party's relationship with the EU and the Europe-debate that we must have. She called it a 'new Europe debate'. I would say that it is a Europe-debate that the Christian People's Party, for its part, has at least had for several years. But there's a debate that comes in with new elements, of course, depending on the reality that stands out around us. Development in Europe is not a static process, and I have so far expressed it as Siri Frost Sterri quotes me, that I have not had a fundamental position on the EU issue in the sense that it is a no based on principles. It has been based on an assessment of the overall importance for us, and where I recognise that Norway needs to have good relations with the EU, not just for economic reasons. It is also a matter of common historical and cultural roots where our relationship with the EU and Europe is also important. With regard to the position of my party, it will be the subject of debate and decision at our national meeting in 2001. That debate and that position I will not foresaw, but the government's work is based on the position that was shaped by the people in the referendum on 28 November 1994 and that represented a no to membership, but a yes to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e551	The representative, Steensnæs, said in a reply with the representative, Mr Engebretsen, that the Government has an active relationship with the EU in the interests of Norwegian interests. Well, the result hasn't been so bad at all. It's actually getting really good. But the question is, what was the starting point? Keywords here will be the starting point for Schengen cooperation, participation in Europol and not to talk about what we are going to discuss later here today, namely the drug centre, in which it is really very important that we participate. Then the Prime Minister has announced that Norway will become a partner for the EU in order to contribute to the enlargement that is now underway in the EU. Perhaps one of the most important things happening in the EU system in the future is that Central and Eastern Europe is gradually becoming part of the EU. I would like to point out that it was actually decided in Helsinki that all Eastern and Central European countries should be in a negotiating position during February. What kind of policy does Steensnæs think Norway should have with the candidate countries, especially with regard to our closest neighbours, Poland and the Baltic countries? Turkey has become a candidate country. We actually experience the paradox that it is now the European Union that will push Turkey to improve its human rights provisions, to improve its development of democracy and to change important parts of Turkish society. What does Steensnæs think is Norway's responsibility, not least as a NATO partner or NATO member together with Turkey, in contributing to Turkey's qualifying for EU membership, so as to improve both human rights and ensure democratic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e560	First, I have to be allowed to say that I am very satisfied with the rise in the characteristics that Nybakk's representative gives to the Government in terms of work on Euorpa questions. It started with nothing bad at all and it ended up well. I'm happy about that, because I think it's a good idea for the effort the government has made in these questions. Reference is made to various initiatives in the field of EU development, and she was particularly committed to the Prime Minister’s opinion that the Government wants to be a partner for the countries that are now applying for EU membership. I think that is a sensible and correct attitude on the part of Norway. First of all, what the countries themselves want must be based on. It is their decision, based on an overall assessment, to enter the EU. Of course, it is not just economic issues that are important, but not least political and security policy. So there is a complex set of arguments for applying for EU membership. For stability and security in Europe, it will be positive, also for the context within which Norway works, that these countries become members of the EU. In various contexts, therefore, Norway can, within a defined framework of course, contribute to the qualification of these countries for EU membership. The same thing applies to Turkey. As I said in a previous reply to the representative, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, I am in favour of networking, for countries that have previously been behind an iron carpet are being drawn into a closer context, both economically, politically and culturally, for I believe that this is the strongest guarantee for a stable, both political and economic development for these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e569	Shortly back to Russia, which was a theme in the post of the representative Steensnæs and also in the turn of the line. Evolution in Russia is perhaps the most difficult thing to have a clear hold on right now. The stone sneeze was in the middle of that the Duma was out of play. I guess it's an expression with some modifications. The problem was that there was a multiple that messed up and decided, and there was a multiple that we don't like. But there is also a phenomenon that occurs in the Storting from time to time, so it is not a system problem to say in Russia, but there are many other problems in Russia. But back to Europe's issues and whether it's enthusiasm, progress or what it's now ruling in the government, and that I haven't criticised the results in itself. Steensnæs refers to the fact that the Government is based on the EEA Agreement. It probably does that in general. It states that it is based on the EEA Agreement. The Christian People's Party was one of the driving forces for getting the EEA Agreement. The government also builds on other bilateral agreements, said Steensnæs. Then it starts to get a little complicated, because I'm not quite sure if Norway had had the bilateral agreements to build on which the government is building, if the Steensnæs hold had been fully realised, because then one would not have had the agreements. So we build our relationship with the European Union on the agreements that seem to be something you really don't want. But now they have become important and good to have – I had almost said is done and eaten – so the agreements are there. But it may seem that the agreements on which one builds, and as one of mine forms an important foundation for cooperation with Europe, would not have any, but actually they are good to have anyway. Is that what is happening to the Government in relation to Schengen, Europol, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e576	Just cards back to Duma. It may be that the description I chose was not comprehensive. But I have noticed that several parties are now boycotting part of the organs through which the Duma works, and that it has complicated or complicated the work in the Duma. It is clear that it is important for the Duma to do its job as a parliament in Russia. That's what was in my statement. Then I am very pleased with the shades of this debate. I also think we've got some specifics about what one expects the Government to follow up, and what commitment the Government has in different areas. I also think that you have received a nuanced description – praise and some criticism. This must be the case when opposition parties are to do their job, as they should. But now I felt for a moment that we were back to the starting point of the post that Haakon Blankenburg had made. It is true that in some areas of bilateral agreements, the Government has taken a different view from that of the majority of the Grand Duchy. And in those areas, among others: Schengen, I have confirmed that the Government has then taken that as its starting point and has had no problem implementing the position of the majority of the population. Of course, there's no black and white image. There are advantages to being part of Schengen cooperation, but there are also disadvantages associated with it. And the government's accounts have been different than the majority of the population's accounts. But in other areas, both in police cooperation and in drug cooperation, to which Haakon Blankenborg referred, I would say that he reads the Government's attitudes and attitude incorrectly in relation to the active positive will the Government has just to enter into such important cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e585	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e588	After World War II, Norway has taken on a considerable responsibility for meeting the major challenges of international policy: Norway is among the world’s most aided countries, measured in terms of GNI. Following the establishment of the United Nations, Norway has contributed more than 55 000 Northmen to various military operations under the auspices of the United Nations. Norway has also made considerable efforts, particularly in recent years, such as peace brokers. in the Middle East. Norway has been able to play such a role, among other things. because we are not a member of the European Union. As a resource-efficient country, Norway has a moral obligation to take co-responsibility in the international community. In addition, it will be in Norway’s own interest to engage internationally and to show willingness to take responsibility. There can hardly be any doubt that the many central tasks that Norway has been given, and the resulting influence, are due not least to the trusting work that Norway has carried out both as an active participant in UN peace operations, contributing to the poor countries, as peace brokers and through the leadership of various international organisations. The commendation and the expressed respect that have become Norway and Norway’s Foreign Minister in connection with the OSCE Presidency show that the responsible and trusting line is continued by the current government. Now that Norway has the ambition to join the UN Security Council again, it is also an expression that Norway is conscious of its international responsibility and wants to seek greater influence in international policy. And to all intents and purposes: such an active role can be played by Norway without being a member of the EU. Although the OSCE Presidency has now been taken over by Austria, Norway will continue to play an important role in the organisation as a member of the leadership troika. The fact that the Austrian Freedom Party, with Jörg Haider as its leader, can join a new government coalition, is a major diplomatic challenge. The fact that a democratic country in the heart of Europe should be able to have political leadership with clear racist, even Nazi, points is a frightening development that we cannot deal with indifferently. The Central Party has always underlined the important role played by the OSCE in international policy. We also expressed this trust in the organisation during the period when it was not a good tone to emphasize the importance of this organisation. Against this background, it is positive that Norway, not least, has made a significant contribution to the increased importance and authority of the pan-European organisation of the OSCE. With regard to security policy developments in Europe, much of the interest today is towards the fact that the EU is taking an important step towards enhanced security and defence cooperation, the so-called ESDP. The key questions we need to ask are the impact this will have on cooperation in NATO — including transatlantic relations — and on Norway’s foreign and security policy situation. In the opinion of the Centre Party, Norway should respond to these challenges: that NATO remains the basis for collective security in Europe, and that the alliance should also have an important role in future crisis management to maintain and strengthen transatlantic links that Norway should seek influence and participation in the planning and processes that will precede decisions to intervene in regional conflicts that will determine Norwegian participation in such operations through national decisions. Of course, as a non-member, Norway cannot take part in the formal decisions taken in the EU bodies. However, if Norway is expected to participate with personnel and resources in peace operations, Norway must be able to demand participation in planning and decision-making processes. United Kingdom Minister for Foreign Affairs Robin Cook said at the EU Minister for Foreign Affairs this week that we must ensure that our NATO colleagues are familiar with what we are doing and that they are given the opportunity to ‘participate both in the decision-making process and in the implementation’. I interpret the foreign minister’s statement so that a Norwegian person is prepared to put Norwegian personnel and resources at the disposal of regional crisis management, provided that Norway has satisfactory arrangements for our involvement in this area. The opinions of the UK Minister for Foreign Affairs hope that Norway will be adequately involved in the planning and decision-making process. Norway’s relationship with the EU is today formalised by the EEA Agreement. The enlargement of the EU will of course also have consequences for this agreement. I note with interest that the chairman of the Committee has found it necessary to clarify that this is not a ‘renegotiation’ of the EEA Agreement, but an adaptation of the agreement to the fact that the EU now has more Member States and thus more EEA countries. In recent days, Thorbjørn Jagland has created some uncertainty about the European policy of the Workers' Party and Norway's relationship with the EU. My country wants a new EU debate, but it should not be a debate that includes the issue of Norwegian EU membership. But according to Jagland, there will be a need to change the Party's programme so that one can have greater freedom of action, so that the party can enter into membership, according to the Evening Post. According to the same newspaper, the Labour Party leader is waiting for a ‘vote change in Norwegian opinion’. I assume that the programme of the Workers' Party does not put an end to the debate on Norway's relationship with the EU. Today’s foreign debate is largely a debate on how Norway should deal with developments in the EU and the decisions taken by the EU. As Mr Petersen said earlier today, we already have an ongoing debate on Europe. For the most part, the Government has notified a European Communication in which Norway’s relationship with the EU and the EEA is to be discussed on a broad basis. It may not be necessary for the Workers' Party to modify the programme in order to participate in such a debate. What EU debate is there when the Workers' Party has taken the initiative? What EU debate is what the Labour Party wants that should not affect the issue of Norwegian association with the EU — i.e. membership? I don't quite understand why Thorbjørn Jagland and the Workers' Party are going to conceal the facts of the matter and try to misunderstand the motives for the play that has come. In short, it is not possible to hold an EU debate with the aim of modifying the Workers' Party's programme, giving political freedom of action to seek membership and to achieve a change of opinion, without updating the issue of membership. It is not the case that an EU debate is about to become a membership debate from the moment when there have been significant changes in opinion. The result of the 1994 referendum should be firm, including for the next major period. The parties that want to change their party programmes and open up their membership should not obscure the motives by creating the impression that a policy and a debate aimed at giving greater freedom of action and achieving a change of opinion is a debate that is not about Norwegian membership of the European Union. The voters who will attend the polls in 2001 should know which parties want Norway to become a member of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e645	It is not difficult to agree with the representative Jakobsen when he says it is regrettable if Haider becomes Minister of Foreign Affairs or enters the Austrian Government. It's also expressed here, from Jacobsen's point of view, that we can't deal with that matter indifferently. I can agree with that, too. But what does the representative Jamessen think that we can and should do in that context? So Steensnæs said in his reply to the Blankenburg representative a little earlier here, that his opinion is that the Government shows a positive willingness to go actively with it, or to reach agreements with important cooperation structures in the EU, such as: the drug unit, Schengen and Europol. Does Johan J. Jakobsen share Steensnæs’ assessment and viewpoint? Jacobsen agrees with the Government’s proposals on participation in the drug unit, when the Government writes in its propositions, among others. This will provide a significantly better basis for better prevention of drug use and treatment strategy at home. Or he agrees with his party trap, Social Minister Kleppa, who, not later than the month of February/March 1999 in the Official Journal of Bergen, thought this was no priority task for the Government. Does Jacobsen Steensnæs share his view of the Government’s active and positive will, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e653	I am not surprised that Marit Nybakk shares my concern at the fact that, in the worst case, we can experience that a party with not only racist but far-reaching Nazi attitudes can come into government position in one of the countries we also cooperate with, among others. within the OSCE. I will willingly admit that one is quite helpless when it comes to using active instruments. It will be to intervene in the internal affairs of a country to interfere in this process as it is now. I guess today we can just cross our fingers and hope that the outcome of the process that is going on today does not give this as a result, and as far as I can see from today's news, there are certain possibilities for that. But in fact, I think it is important to create an international opinion against the attitudes that Jörg Haider and his freedom party stand for. With regard to the issue of cooperation with EU bodies, EU institutions and EU organisations, the Central Party has the principle that we are in favour of international cooperation even if we oppose Norway joining the Union. We are positive about concluding agreements, and we have concluded many agreements and supported the conclusion of agreements by Norway in a broad field of action, and this also applies to drug cooperation. I will not go quite well for the nuance that Marit Nybakk now expressed in terms of the difference in what Steensnæs had said, and what Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa had said. As Marit Nybakk knows, the Center Party is part of the Government, and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa is part of the Government and is behind the proposals promoted by this Government. It'll kind of be my answer. A government that has made proposals to the Stortinget without her being taken, in plain language, means that the entire government is behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e665	Since the representative Jakobsen stated that the Freedom Party in Austria was a party with racist and far-reaching Nazi attitudes – and he gave similar characteristics of Jörg Haider – I allow myself to be curious to ask Johan J. Jakobsen: What opinions and positions do Haider and the Freedom Party respectively have in their programme that are racist and Nazi? Austria is, after all, one of our democratic neighbours that we want to have a good relationship with, and it is very likely that Haider will be in a leading position in the Austrian government. Then I will be allowed to quote what Hundseid, the then president of the Bond Party – the Bond Party was known as the current Center Party – said in the centenary debate on 12 February 1931 on immigration to Norway: ‘However, I say that the economic side of this case is the least important. Far more important is the racial-biological. A good part of these foreigners who come into the country are racially poor in quality. They have bad genetics, but they have a great vitality in terms of multiplying. Our race suffers from this immigration. Our good Nordic race gets mixed up in a way that is unfortunate for the future of our race. This is the worst and in length the most precious consequence of our slow immigration control. We can win an economic loss, but we can never get rid of bad genetics that have come into the race." etc. I am well aware that neither the Freedom Party nor Haider have ever held positions that are close to this, so I would like to ask the representative Jacobsen's comment on this. –
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e677	To take the last one first: I – and the Senterpartiet – of course take a sharp distance from the views expressed in the Treaty debate in 1931 by the Bondepartie’s then parliamentary leader. But it is also part of the story that these strong results, as the representative Danielsen has now referred to, did not at all cause any storm in the Stortinge during the debate, which is difficult to interpret in a way other than that which was probably more common in 1931 than what Danielsen's speeches now stated. Then I want to go on the day Danielsen commented, namely my statement that Jörg Haider has expressed both racist and far-reaching – as I said – Nazi attitudes. I have a lot of quotes, I get to take them as far as they go. At a meeting in Ulrichsberg in October 1990, Haider said the following: Our soldiers were not criminals, at worst victims. In 1991, Haider praised the proper employment policy, having regard to the Third Reich. He stated that Waffen-SS was part of the German military forces and therefore deserves all the honor and respect that should be the military for public life. I also have several other quotes that at least are nothing better than what I have now referred to, but I think this should last a long time. I stand firm for what I said in my post, namely that Jörg Haider has stood – and stands – for some racist and far-reaching Nazi thoughts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e688	I will continue where Jacobsen left off, and add what Jamessen might also have added, that in the light of history, the most important dividing line goes between those who have managed to wash off foreign-enemy detainments, and those who have not. It's a much more important dimension than what happened 70 years ago, or longer back. When it comes to cooperation with Europe, Johan J. Jakobsen has an interpretation of the rest of the Norwegian political parties in which I think I'm familiar. He says that Thorbjørn Jagland is waiting for a change of mood so that he can become a member of the EU. No one at all has said anything like that. What they have said is that they want an opening so that you can search if it would be desirable, if necessary. This is as far as I can see, about the same thing I got the impression in a chronicle in the newspaper some time ago, by Secretary of State Berg of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that I had the impression of was on behalf of the Left. I thought it was astounding at what was said by the Workers' Party. It's probably the same thing as I said before today, that there's a chance of a debate where one doesn't fear the conclusion. But if you've made up your mind about the conclusion, whatever happens, it's pretty simple. But I don't really see anything other than Johan J. Jakobsen standing on that line. I even have the impression that all the government parties, except for the Center Party, have such an open hold. This is no longer a principle, it is said, as it was referred to here, and a need for debate. Why be so unlikely to be afraid of the conclusion? For this reason, it may not be possible, but there is a lot of evidence to suggest that an application is not relevant. But why be afraid of it, why not trust your own arguments in such a debate? Why tie, why don't you trust arguments that the Center Party could do?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e699	Let me first say that I fully share the assessment that Haakon Blankenborg gave initially in his reply, namely that the difference between political parties today is which parties have the power to wash off the dirt, as he said, and those who have not. And that was also my point: what was referred from a throne debate almost 70 years ago is a debate that is not particularly relevant in relation to today's situation. With regard to the EU debate and the Europe debate that was the second point raised by the Committee's chair, must I point out that I have asked the question during this debate: what debate, what Europe debate, what EU debate is the European Union's desire for the Workers' Party to change its party programme? We have an ongoing Europe debate in Norway today. Closely any question can be discussed in full transparency, and there must be something concrete behind it when it is produced almost as a political outlay. I must then remember how this play has been met by the no-page of the Workers' Party. In today's nations – I have to make it clear that this is right – that Iland believes the next program should provide space for action so that it can be possible for the party to join in. To say that such an attitude and such a play has nothing to do with the membership debate – I regret to say so – I do not understand that. And I can't interpret this any other way than that this is an attempt to conceal the fact that some parties are now prepared to take a rematch and a new round on the issue of Norwegian membership of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e713	I agree with both Johan J. Jakobsen and Haakon Blankenborg that what Jens Hundseid said in 1931 is completely irrelevant for an assessment of the Center Party today. Of course, Hundseid was the most extreme, but those thoughts in less extreme form were time typical even far into the work movement. In a man like Karl Evang, who was an absolute patent anti-Nazi, there were thoughts about racial hygiene. This was done in all circles indecently by World War II. It was the Jewish killings and the Holocaust and Hitler's policy that left no decent people in Western Europe after World War II and no longer did this kind of thinking. The problem now is that a politician who makes such thoughts can come to power, or at least in a strong power position in a democratic country in the centre of Europe. And when Johan J. Jakobsen says that we can't interfere in Austria's internal relationship, there's nothing we can do, I disagree. There is no internal concern that a central European politician cast doubt on genocide, it is absolutely central, it goes into the absolute core of politics. How in all the world should Europe help to avert and prevent new genocides if one is in doubt about the most central genocide that has taken place in human history at all? I will come back to this later on questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister, but at least we can get into a situation where Haider becomes part of the OSCE Presidency together with our Minister for Foreign Affairs. So he's going to help prevent genocide elsewhere in the world, who's not even sure if there was a genocide when 7 million Jews were exterminated in Europe. In other words, it's not an internal issue, but something we have to think about, what diplomatic means we want to use, and whether Norway is prepared to sit in the OSCE troika with a man with such views. –
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e720	I would also like to thank Erik Solheim for his contribution to putting Dag Danielsen's line to me in a larger context. The positions expressed were, as Erik Solheim said, unfortunately too time-typical for this period. This concerns Austria and the process that is now taking place with a view to creating a new government for the country. I said in my speech that the fact that a democratic country in the heart of Europe should be able to have political leadership with clear racist and Nazi elements is a frightening development that we cannot deal with indifferently. I must stress that here we have to distinguish between it, we have to say, despite all the democratic process that is going on in Austria in order to re-govern the country – that is this process I believe we have difficulty interfering with, and I have a great understanding that the Foreign Minister must reserve himself against it and what I said in my reply to Marit Nybakk, that we must contribute to creating an international position and an international pressure against the undemocratic attitudes that we have registered in Austria, an international press that can at the same time strengthen the democratic forces in Austria, so that we may perhaps get to avoid the situation that most people now have expressed a great deal of scepticism about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e727	This quote from Hundseid became quite central at the end of the debate; he also became Norwegian Prime Minister. I think it's quite interesting to see the immigration debate in a historical perspective. I also find it interesting that the one who was so prominent and central to pure racist ideas in Norway was the Central Party’s representative for the big business over 21 years. I think it's in an easy way the Central Party's representative here today is trying to prove that Haider is racist, for example. by referring to him saying that our soldiers were victims. Of course they were. It was not punishable for German soldiers to go to war. They were protected by international law and the Geneva Convention, like others. They were victims in the sense that they were ordered. When you come up with such quotations to try to justify that someone is racist or Nazi, when you look at the background of Norwegian politics and find such clear, racist statements and then come up with such detached stories about Haider, then I suggest that the representative Jakobsen go down, take an interview with Haider and ask what he really means, and then come back to the Storting and tell us about his experiences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e734	I hope Fridtjof Frank Gundersen does not see me as an indiscriminate when I tell the story that Gundersen mentioned this quote to me for a while back – I will not say that he was triumphant, but perhaps a while on the way. But it is part of the story that when Fridtjof Frank Gundersen had referred to this, he added – if I don't remember wrong – that the eye-catching thing was that no one went to protest! And that's what's the whole point here. This was a time-typical attitude, with a racial ideology that they all, most of us – perhaps with a few exceptions – are now totally opposed. I am a little surprised that the spokespersons of the Progress Party in this debate are so relaxed about what we are now seeing in Austria, and that they are almost in doubt that the statements that have been documented and to which I have partly referred are expressions of racist attitudes, which at least we in the Central Party must strongly distance ourselves from. In a debate held in the national Parliament as late as February 1995, Haider used the term ‘criminals of the National Socialists’ with reference to the concentration camps, thus suggesting that those who were interned were actually guilty of criminal acts. When such a gross history falsification occurs on what I would call a racist basis, it must be allowed to say from.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e743	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e746	With regard to the last debate, the most eye-catching is the joyous Progress Party seems to find in this quote of Hundseid. But now leave it. I join in the praise given in the debate to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the way the OSCE Presidency has been handled. It is, of course, the most important Norway has contributed to foreign policy in the last year, and as such very central. As far as the statement itself is concerned, I want to characterise it as absolutely uncontroversial – I don't know if it should be regarded as roses or rice, it's up to the Foreign Minister to make up his own mind. But I could probably imagine a little clearer views and directions, where we want to go. What has been said in the debate so far on the European Union, in my opinion, most people in general agree on. There is a significant degree of agreement on how Norway is to deal with both the EU’s development of a stronger security policy dimension and how to proceed with the EEA Agreement. There is also a relatively broad consensus that time is needed to discuss any possible EU membership, which will be far ahead of time, and that it should be done in a more nuanced, more relaxed and more analytical way than our previous debate. I would therefore like to focus on two other issues that have so far not been raised. One is what we understand about foreign policy, and the other is what we're going to do with the Security Council candidate. Let me start with the first: I perceive the foreign minister's statement that is far too narrow in the very understanding of what foreign policy is. When the North Korean Prime Minister was in Beijing recently, he told me that North Korea had a very large army. Jiang Zemin – the Chinese president – then told him that in our modern times the army is not important. What matters is whether you have a strong economy and whether you're at the forefront of technology. That's what makes a country powerful. The presentation is essentially a kind of diplomatic statement, not a statement of how Norway should deal with this era of globalisation, where economics and technology are the most important, what sets the framework for foreign policy. To put it at the forefront, I think the mergers you see now in the international entertainment and IT industry, and what happens to Microsoft, means more for what kind of device the world will get culturally, economically and thus to the seventh and last politically in the next few years, than the clever diplomatic things in foreign policy. Currently, Norwegian foreign policy consists not only of the EEAS and the EEAS, but of a variety of non-governmental organisations, all of which have their foreign policy. Many municipalities have up to several foreign policy employees, business operates foreign policy and trade unions do so. The EEAS needs to see itself to a far greater extent as the driving force behind this total internationalisation and globalisation in Norway. I noticed that even a country such as Romania, which is much poorer than Norway, had to define five objectives for its foreign policy, they had taken on as a very central point in how Romania should deal with globalisation and internationalisation – that was the whole sphere of action. But this is also linked to another significant phenomenon, namely that in today's world, the United States is the only dominant power – and that applies everywhere on the globe. In East Asia there are two powers: the United States and China. In South Asia, there are two powers: the United States and India. In the Middle East, there is one power: the United States. All over America, there's one power: the United States. In Europe, there are three: Russia, the EU and the United States. In other words, no matter where you get on this globe, the United States and their presence are economic and technological, but also military and political the overwhelming fact. You can see a bunch of examples of this: the crisis in Ecuador was just triggered when the president wanted to make the dollar into Ecuador's currency. When the EU troika with the Likkanen, Patton and Prodi traveled to Beijing and met the President there, they spoke, according to the report we have received, not of substance at all, it was just polite phrases. And the reason is, of course, that the Chinese are so much more concerned about the relationship with the United States than they are about the relationship with the EU. Looking at the situation in Russia, according to Herald Tribune's last figure, the Russian defence budget is now one-seventyth of the US. So the United States spends 70 times as much on military expenditure as Russia does. Obviously, if the United States develops an anti-missile defense, it doesn't appear to be a particularly positive development from Moscow. The Russians have also created a new military doctrine which is not necessarily favourable. What I want to achieve is that this American power in the world is little based on diplomacy. It is not so much based on military power either, but essentially on economic and technological power, and therefore we also need to understand foreign policy much, much more. The second is our Security Council candidate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs shall, as far as I know, on a five-day round trip to five small countries in the Caribbean. He's been to Nepal, he's been to Bhutan, and he's going to Dubai. All of this is fine, but we all know what this is for, and it's essentially the Norwegian Security Council candidate. In other words, getting into the Security Council is now a very central objective for Norwegian foreign policy this year, and I agree with that. I mean we should and should, because if we want to play any role internationally, we have to. But we also have to define for ourselves what we want with being in the Security Council. There is always a danger that the entry into the Security Council will be so secondary that one chooses to tone down the policy in all areas so as not to offend anyone, and thus to be a more edible candidate to the Security Council. I would like to make a proposal on what Norway should do if we were to become a member of the Security Council, and that is to ensure that the conclusions now presented in two very significant analyses of what the United Nations did wrong in the 1990s are taken into account. Kofi Annan himself presented to the General Assembly an analysis of what the UN did in connection with the crisis in Srebrenica in 1995. He has asked a commission, led by Ingvar Carlsson, and with a few other high-level participants, to analyse what the UN did wrong in Rwanda, and the conclusion to this is a horror scenario: there is an organisation completely without the ability to use power in these situations, with very limited knowledge, where diplomats cose Chat with mass murderers, where almost all politicians are only concerned with domestic politics in their countries and how they are to be re-elected, and where the UN apparatus almost does not work. Now we can't settle for this, but we have to start discussing what we can do with it. The conclusions drawn point to some major features that Norway must contribute to if we are to join the Security Council: firstly, the United Nations must have a device to understand. In Rwanda, you understood and you couldn't do anything. In Srebrenica, a good deal could be done, but it was also there that significant powers did not share the intelligence they put on with the UN and the UN leadership. It requires political strengthening, analytical capacity and requires peacekeeping and peace-building missions to be equipped with political advisers with knowledge of the countries in which they are located. All this costs money. This means that strengthening the UN budgets is absolutely central, and Norway must contribute to the possible conflict with the United States in order to get the funds spent. Furthermore, there was a moral error in both conflicts by equalizing the parties. They talked about truces in Rwanda between the mass murderers and those who tried to drive the mass murderers away. An arms boycott was introduced in former Yugoslavia, which in practice hit the Bosnian Muslims and made them less able to defend itself against the abuses of the Bosnian Serbs and other Serbs. So one has to dare to choose sides in a conflict when that choice is as clear as in these two conflicts. But the most important thing in the conclusions that have been drawn is that there must be a will for the use of power, including the use of military power, when faced with genocide and regimes with mass murderers. You can't appeal to keep a peace that doesn't exist. There can be no endless debate. And when people have sought their protection at the UN, there must be a military will to put this into practice. In both Srebrenica and Rwanda, the conclusion is that more people's lives would have been saved if the UN had not been there. Then people would take military action themselves, or they would try to protect themselves and hide themselves. Instead, they prided themselves on the UN and were handed over to the executioners. In Srebrenica, the secure sons gave no protection. In Rwanda, the UN disappeared from an entire football stadium with several thousand people, and they tried to pretend they didn't disappear. We know that only a few of those who were at that football stadium survived. Entering into a thorough discussion of the advice provided by these reports to the United Nations will be a very worthy justification for a Norwegian Security Council candidate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e789	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e792	I think it was an interesting post the representative Solheim made. I won't say so much about the first half of his post; I broadly agree with those considerations. I think it is important that we look beyond what we are doing, also at globalisation, at the economic development of the world, and not least at the need for driving rules in the international economy. We must therefore also stand by both for the UNCTAD conference and for a further follow-up to the WTO. What made me take a line was what Erik Solheim said about the world organization UN, the only real world organization we have. It was created after the raging ruins of World War II, and the objective and the UN Pact are largely about preventing war between states. We all know that the world isn't like this today. There are other conflicts. Most wars and acts of violence take place either internally, within the borders of a state, or are regional. Nevertheless, it is more interesting what Solheim draws up in terms of reforms, or the need for reforms, and the impotence of the UN apparatus itself. Erik Solheim uses expressions like the UN today is an organisation without power, virtually without influence, and where the UN apparatus almost doesn't work. It might be like this. What is certain is that there is a need for reform. The Nordic countries have exerted strong pressure for reform, and the current Secretary-General has also presented proposals for reforms and made them effective. I would essentially like to stress that although we sometimes feel a frustration at the way the United Nations works or does not work, it is important that we do not undermine the authority of the United Nations and that we ensure that we can bring about the necessary reforms. I will also ask Solheim to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e803	When I bring this up, of course, it's from a deep love to the UN and from a realistic assessment that the only thing we can work for is to improve the UN. There is no alternative for anyone who wants a politically well-organized world. It also serves Kofi Anna very much to the credit that he has taken the initiative to produce these reports, especially the report made by Ingvar Carlsson and among others. the former Korean Foreign Minister, Han, is the total slaughter of Kofi Annan's own actions during the mass murder in Rwanda, and where the only logical conclusion, if he had been the head of a normal organization or of a state, was that Kofi Annan also had to leave. Although Boutros-Ghali acted even more helplessly, it cannot be used as any justification. But there is also an unpleasant searchlight on the States, and so unpleasant that the United States has not wanted to cooperate with this group. Madeleine Albright was the United States Ambassador during the genocide in Rwanda. She's not on the list of the interviewers, and I think everyone knows the explanation. Her closest employees are not interviewed by the Commission either – we simply did not want the critical searchlight on what the United States did during this mass murder that the United Nations and Kofi Annan have accepted for themselves. So it makes a lot of sense that you have so openly presented how badly you handled that situation, but it only makes sense from one single perspective, that you have to prevent you from getting into a similar situation once again. The next time there had to be a Srebrenica or Rwanda-like situation – we know they're never exactly the same – the UN has to be better able to understand what's going on, and you have to have power in the form of an agreement on forces that can move in, and a political will, above all, to use power to stop such things. It's almost unison agreement that if you had at least asked only the force that was already in Rwanda to intervene, it would dramatically reduce the number of victims of the genocide.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e814	I also want to compliment Erik Solheim for a very good post, not least what he said about the UN, was very realistic, and it's high time that we looked at the UN in a realistic light. We're all a few that we need a good and effective UN, and the only way to get it is to be willing to see the truth in the eye. It doesn't work, as I thought the representative Nybakk had a tendency, to ignore it almost for courtesy's sake. What I think is an important conclusion to what happened in Bosnia is to see how important it is to act before the tragedy is complete. We're usually very good at condemning everything afterwards. What happened in the Second World War are now world champions to condemn, what happened in Bosnia, is beginning to come, but when it comes to what's happening today, we go too often on silkworms. I might be able to show that we were part of the Bosnia conflict that said just what Solheim says now, so we did as best we could here in the house and elsewhere, but it was very difficult to get the response so that there was some weight behind it. Now it comes. I would like to ask Solheim's representative whether he too, based on what he has said, should be involved more strongly in today's'srebrenica's'. They are also present today, sometimes several times larger. In Grosny, it's a lot worse. It's about tens of thousands, both Chechens and Russians, civilians at the bottom of the social level, who have no possibility of escaping from the artillery. What does Solheim want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e825	To conduct the debate here in Stortinget – about who said what during the crisis in Rwanda and Bosnia, I think at least is one of the most fruitless things I could start with. I think we have to be so self-critical, the entire Norwegian apparatus in terms of government and greatness, that we recognize that very much of the criticism directed at the UN and the major powers is also directed at us. The difference is that we were away from the center of events. But as I've been in the past: the word «Rwanda» is not mentioned in the Storting during the hundred days when 800,000 people were slaughtered, so we also have our share of the responsibility that this was not adequately impacted. But of course, the main responsibility lies with the major powers who knew more what happened, and had the means to contribute to it, and with the UN leaders who did nothing. Secretary-General Boutros-Ghali was barely in the headquarters of New York during the mass murder in Rwanda. He was on a tour in Europe and was mostly dealing with other things, even though he was allowed to represent himself through an alternate. I agree with Mr Godal's strong commitment to Chechnya. I sincerely hope that in Chechnya it has not been what it was in Srebrenica and Rwanda, namely a deliberate and direct genocide. War acts are bad, but genocide is something other than acts of war, genocide is when you try to kill a whole people or deliberately kill all the inhabitants of an area. I don't know that it's happened in Chechnya, but if it's happened, it's just awful. I think we're all pretty lost on what means we're going to use to push the Russians. I've heard many people who have screamed in very large letters that you have to do something, but there are very few realistic suggestions on how we can manage to push Russia to the propriety in Chechnya that a total accumulation really wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e834	The different replicants have praised Solheim for his contributions, and that's why, because the representative Solheim is among these very knowledgeable and competent peoples in terms of the foreign policy situation. His posts here were almost a lecture on foreign policy and the nature of foreign policy, and it was very short – 10 minutes, he had no more time – and many lecturers could have something to learn from it in and for themselves. Solheim says it's important to define what we want, and it's also part of the foreign policy debate, not just an analysis of what's going on in the big world, how different countries are dealing with each other, what kind of conflicts there are, and what kind of action they need to take to get it in place. It's important. That is an essential part of the foreign policy debate, of course. The second is: what is the Norwegian foreign policy? For example, what does it want? Sv? Solheim has repeatedly pointed to the nature and development of globalisation, and it will be one of the important things in the years to come – no doubt about it. And in order to do this a little bit concrete and get a little grip on SV's attitude to, for example, a relationship like globalisation, I can ask myself: in globalisation, besides all other things, there is also a dramatic gallop in the financial world, with the big finance that is galloping in the wild cloud around. Is it so that SV could imagine a supranational body to help get a certain opportunity to govern and regulate this market?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e841	We have gradually become quite good at complimenting each other on the Foreign Affairs Committee. It's a kind and polite committee. I particularly appreciated the compliment that my post was so good that it only lasted 10 minutes. It was elegant! What I miss on the part of the Government regarding globalisation is the same thing as we had a debate on in the context of the Asia plan before Christmas; it is an overall understanding that globalisation is, in fact, the crucial framework conditions for how Norway can and must act in all areas of life in the years to come. Globalization is not something that helps you to like or dislike. It's like industrialization, there were some who disliked it and pointed to all the weaknesses and the negatives of it, but you didn't escape it anyway. Globalization is like waves, like a river. It comes, and it's just questions about how we handle this, whether we like it or not. What I first mentioned is in a way that the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, becomes the engine of arming the entire Norwegian community for this. It's about making sure that our universities and schools get a syllabus that reflects that we're a global world. It's about getting enough language training in Norway, so we have people who understand the rest of the world. Business, which in Norwegian context invests much less abroad than many other countries’ businesses, is starting to do so. Norway has no truly high-tech world-class enterprises — at least not outside the oil sector — à la Ericsson and Nokia. This is the total desire to equip Norway for such an international world. With regard to the direct issue of financial markets: yes, SV is for Tobin taxes and attempts to regulate financial markets in this way, and of course we are for transnational solutions that try to regulate financial markets. As the replicant has probably noticed, in all contexts, in recent years I have strongly advocated strengthening international organisations, and not weakening them, whether it be the UN, the WTO or whatever one might talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e852	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e855	The Minister for Foreign Affairs has an approach to the question of what is Norwegian interest. The Minister of Foreign Affairs stresses, and it is thus the Government's position, that it is in Norwegian interest to have a broad commitment and to pursue a broad foreign policy, and that it is not just a matter of Norway being able to contribute in itself to something that – I kept saying – could be pleasant to others, but that it is also a matter of directly caring for Norwegian interests when we are active in other areas. At the same time, it will necessarily be the closest areas, and then I might like to stress that the Nordic region is so definitely one of the closest areas, very important for Norway. It will of course be that there will be a little bit of a ring that makes you often want to be most concerned with the things that are closest, and then it could be a little decreasing, with clear modifications in it. It is important to be concerned with social and economic development in poor countries, and it is important to be concerned with conflict prevention and conflict and crisis management – I almost kept on saying – in principle where it had to take place in the world. Norway addresses these issues and participates in cooperation with a number of international organisations such as the United Nations, EEA, NATO, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers, to mention some of the main international cooperation bodies. Europe issues and Norway's relationship with the EU and EU cooperation have been relatively central in today's debate, at least in the first part of the debate. It is difficult to see that there are particularly large differences between the Government's position on these issues and that of the Workers' Party. There might be a little bit more reason to doubt about the Right, without making too much a point of it. It is agreed that the Government is leading a performance-oriented EU policy with substantially successful results. What the committee leader has introduced in today’s debate is a kind of happiness survey — the question of how much happiness and enthusiasm the government experiences with the Europe debate and the EU policy followed. As such is difficult to measure, there is also a question about the ears that hear, and what – to say – absorption they have. For my part, I sometimes experience that the Workers' Party, perhaps not least the leader of the Workers' Party, and to an even greater extent, the Right has a kind of automatic enthusiasm for everything that had to be associated with the EU and for participating in EU cooperation. Sometimes it may seem like asking questions and being prepared to take a debate before taking a stand, in fact, after the view of these parties in themselves is a disadvantage and lack of enthusiasm. If that is the position, I think it can in many ways be an advantage to be a little less happy than what the Labour Party and the Right are in relation to questions relating to the EU. In dealing with the government's relationship with EU issues, it is a little important to distinguish between Schengen and the veterinary agreement on the one hand and the other. The Schengen and veterinary agreements had been clarified in many ways before the accession of the Government, and were something to which the government parties had expressed opposition, but which was part of what was accepted in connection with the formation of the government. What there is no doubt about this is that the government has solved the negotiating tasks that you had on that basis, in an excellent way and secured good agreements. Then, for my part, I would like to add: there would have been a difference between saying no to Schengen cooperation in 1997 and 1999 for the simple reason that saying no in 1997 could have affected developments elsewhere, and I am thinking not least of Sweden, Denmark and Finland's connection to Schengen cooperation. In other words, it could have affected something. Today, we just have to accept that Schengen cooperation is also part of the framework for Nordic cooperation. In any case, the left-wing position is that we have a fundamental positive attitude towards a relationship with the EU through EEA cooperation and, in other words, through intergovernmental agreements in different areas. We are committed to exploiting the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement as an important factor in this. I can only mention the specific abbreviation ESDI – which eventually gets a P at the end instead of I. There can be no doubt that the Government had an active attitude to Norway’s situation in this context and to follow up Norway’s interests. Last year the Left took the initiative in an active debate on European issues. At the same time, our starting point is that we do not primarily want a debate on the issue of Norwegian EU membership or not. I have the impression that this is being ironized by various parties and representatives, but I cannot record without some satisfaction that once you have heard the follow-up of Thorbjørn Jagland’s posts – it was probably Tuesday – among others. from the committee leader here today, the scheme of the Workers' Party is supposed to have, far to confusion out of the way that the Left took the initiative for its own part last autumn, perhaps with the small difference that we have not stated that this will necessarily lead to some change in the programme context; it is a question that must be addressed to the national meeting next spring. At the same time, there is reason to be concerned about issues outside the EU in Europe. I actually want to give some credit to the representative, Gundersen, who very clearly agreed to be more oriented towards asking questions about the benefits and disadvantages of not being an EU member, and an emphasis on the fact that it could also have advantages not being a member, although it would not be particularly desirable on my part to highlight exactly the economic side. Seeing that not being an EU member also offers some opportunities, and being more concerned about what it is and how we are going to exploit it and use it, could perhaps have been a more positive contribution to the debate in some contexts. Furthermore, it is important for Norway to stress NATO as a carrier of Norwegian security policy and, below, bilateral relations with the United States. It is important for Norway to emphasise the role of NATO in future cooperation in security and defence policy in Europe. Looking at the EU and cooperation there, it will be difficult to imagine that it can have a particularly active role without being linked to NATO and the factor that NATO will be. When it comes to bilateral relations with the United States, I just want to remind you that there are at least two clearly negative elements in the U.S. policy that we need to be concerned with highlighting. One is the non-payment of contributions to the UN, and the other is the question of the death penalty. Russia is another important bilateral link for Norway, and we need to repeat in various ways the distance we have taken to the war in Chechnya, and emphasise the responsibility of Russia to allow for humanitarian action in relation to that conflict. In conclusion, there was a somewhat pointless debate on the position of the Central Party 70–80 years ago. But what we can take a little inward from what was said is that our attitude towards our fellow human beings with a different background than ourselves is important, and that some of the things that might have to be an important contribution in the future will also be to reduce conflicts between people, based on the attitudes you have toward your fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e886	The left says that the difference between the Labour Party and the Left in relation to the EU and developments is not very great. What is different is that the Labour Party believes that membership can be a consequence, not very likely, but a possible consequence in the future, the Left will discuss, assess and analyse, but will have put a stop to any membership, even if development should ensure that this will be a desirable, perhaps even a necessary, solution. There's a difference in that. The EU has changed relatively much. Now probably the representative Hove will say that this is a change that we've been aware of. We were aware of the security policy and the single currency when we last discussed this. Enlargement eastwards we were not aware of. It's maybe some of the most fundamental and dramatic of what's happening. I see no reason today to assess Norwegian membership of the EU, but neither can it be that a good EU opponent should be almost fundamentalist in his position. It must be possible to make the assessments that are relevant and necessary. And I believe that a new round or a rematch – or whatever you want to call it – can be desirable and necessary if development is to be like this. I have to ask the representative Hove – we have been through this before as well: What is the real reason for Hove to commit for another five years on this issue? The referendum was in 1994. So the next milestone to do something about this is in the next programming period for all the games – in 2005. That means eleven years, and with the rapid development that we're seeing now, it might well be a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e896	Now I don't know if I will in particular be concerned with highlighting the similarity or difference between what might have to be the debate within the Labour Party and within the Left. But at least I feel that there are very clear similarity points at the angle of incidence you have to these questions. It is possible that there are also some differences. It strikes me that an important difference may be that the parties are at least going into this debate with the situation that in the Labour Party before the 1994 referendum there was a clear majority for membership. It was the party's position that we wanted membership, while we in the Left were in the situation that there was a majority against membership. It was the party's position that we wanted a no in the referendum. I think there's a difference that's still going to lie there today, and that can make you want to have a slightly different attitude to the time aspect, maybe also to how safe you can be at it when a leader, for example. indicates that the position to be taken is not given – it may have some meaning as to what the nuances are, depending on what you know about your position five years ago. Let me say that it has not been my intention to put a stop to a possible discussion about EU membership. I can't do that in the left. It will be up to the 2001 national meeting to take a position on what we should have as a formulation for the next period. I agree that enlargement lies there as a problem issue, but I believe that it will come first after 2005, and not so much in the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e905	The representative Hove was concerned with the emotional life of other parties, more specifically the sense of happiness and the degree of it. And it could perhaps be heard between the lines that he represents a party that has a long experience in being happy as little, and that it might also be that which color a little the peculiar ambiguity and duality of both the Government and the Left's position on the enlargement of the EU. It is said that the more countries you get integrated into the EU, it is a progress, and it is a pleasure from the Norwegian point of view. But implicitly: what applies to all other European countries does not apply to Norway. And then, as a reason why Norway might also have to contribute financially to enlargement to the east, it is also expanding the EEA territory. Understood: that must be an advantage to Norway. I have to admit that I find it very difficult to understand the logic, because the reality is that the EEA Agreement, which was meant to be an improvised transitional arrangement, now, on the one hand, has Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, and, on the other hand, is considerably increasing. How it can be an advantage for Norway is a mystery to me. The reality is, of course, that, in European policy, the old EFTA countries will become the only ones, of which Norway is the only one with a certain size, less and less interesting and less important. The EEA Agreement is becoming increasingly politically weightless as EU cooperation increases. I should like to hear both the views of the Government and the Left on how this could be an advantage to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e910	As for the emotional life and the question of being happy as a child, I would say that the Left is reasonably happy as it is, but we wouldn't be less happy if we, for example, were. had been twice as large. If the representative Wohnning hoped that the feeling of happiness of the Left would grow in the future, I hope that he will get it fulfilled by the fact that the Left will gradually become a larger party. So the question of Norwegian attitude to other countries’ application for EU membership. First of all, I would like to say that it is the left's view that there is a question that individual countries themselves should have the opportunity to decide. It would be arrogant for Norway to take the position that other countries would not have the opportunity to apply for EU membership — and if they themselves want EU membership, they will have it — only because Norway has chosen to say no for its own purposes. Secondly, I think it is beneficial for an enlargement of EU cooperation with several countries, if the option is – and it is unfortunately in many ways likely that it is – that there will be no link with the EU. And an impression from the trip that Erik Solheim mentioned earlier, to Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary, was enough that these countries clearly want EU membership. But I also had the impression that they underlined that Norway was in a different situation than them, because precisely NATO membership and EEA cooperation in a way did not make EU membership so important. Finally, the extension of the EEA must be an advantage if the EEA Agreement is considered to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e921	The representative Harald Hove spoke in his article about the United States. What he had to criticize the United States for was that the country had not paid its contribution to the UN in full. I think it's a little unfair just to draw this out in terms of the United States. What has not the United States paid for various peace-making actions? What have they not paid out in humanitarian aid? And now they've also started an enormously expensive project to fight AIDS in Africa, and are willing to go in – as far as I understand – with a lot of money if it's possible to reach a peace agreement between Israel and Syria. So why do you absolutely concentrate your work, when it's a major act with the responsibility of the United States, through the bureaucracy of the United Nations, I find it hard to understand. I know that Harald Hove will now say: Yes, it is the US legal obligation – and he is right in that. But as a realist, I want to focus more on what it can get out of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e926	I can't help but say that there's a lot of talk that there's a reason to be more positive about the United States' position on being active in the Third World than about the position of the Progress Party on Norwegian active participation in the same areas. So to the question of US criticism. In any case, it was intended to express a very clear, fundamental positive attitude to the bilateral relationship with the US from the Norwegian side. And the visit we had here in Oslo just under three months ago shows very clearly that the U.S. has an interest in a bilateral relationship with Norway, and that the U.S. may be a little bit more concerned with Norway than at least what Jan Petersen said earlier. If it were to get stuck that I was primarily concerned with the negative aspects of the United States, I would clearly want to correct it. But let me just say that in the case of criticism of the United States, it was actually not just a lack of quota payment I mentioned. I also made it clear that Norway has to follow up the issue of the US's widespread use of the death penalty, and that there is also a negative factor in the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e935	I would like to conduct the conversation about the enlargement problem a little further. Of course, I have never believed that the Government or the Left believes that it is Norway's task to decide on behalf of others whether to apply for membership or not, it should just be lacking. It's enough that we've applied for membership twice ourselves, with varying degrees of luck. But that's not the issue. What the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his statement, and as the Prime Minister has also said, is that Norway generally supports any extension, and wants the process initiated against other European countries to succeed. The specific case is therefore only Norway — which applies to all other countries, it does not apply to Norway. Now the representative Hove stressed the need to see the possibilities of the outside world more than the problems. And then I have to ask, what are the possibilities when you say that the reason why it is in Norwegian interest for the EU to expand with as many new members as possible is that it expands the EEA area? Does this mean that Norway’s opportunities are increasing as the number of EU members increases in terms of its political impact under the EEA Agreement? That is the logic I am unable to understand, because after all reasonable political experience, the end has to be the opposite: Norway’s importance and interest as a partner in relation to the EU declines as enlargement succeeds. What opportunities are Hove talking about? At least it cannot be Norway’s opportunities in European policies that are being expanded in this way. Then there must be other possibilities he's talking about. What opportunities are there?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e942	I must say that it was with a certain surprise that I heard in the introduction that we had applied for membership twice, and then with alternating luck. I thought it was the same accident representative's salary thought we both had experienced. But now it has to be. With regard to the Norwegian approach to EU enlargement with new Member States, it will be my view, in relation to our own position on Norwegian membership, that it must also be seen in the light of the alternatives that the same countries have. I was in my previous line to the representative of Wage that Norway is in the situation that we are both a NATO member and have the EEA Agreement and the EEA-related to the EU. Most of the candidate countries are not in the same situation. As far as I have understood, an EEA-like agreement will not be particularly likely for the same countries. However, there may also be trends — at least mentioned — that after the Czech Republic has become a member of NATO, the Czech Republic has become a few rather less involved in EU membership. So there's a context in these questions. Then to the more direct question: the weight of Norwegian influence in EEA cooperation. What I might be a little surprised that the representative does not see is that the importance of the EEA Agreement could actually be increased by the fact that there will be more actors and cooperation partners in the EEA area. That's the one. Norwegian influence within the EEA area – well, I see that time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e951	What got me to speak was the Hoves representative's remark that he was more positive about the United States' attitude to participation in the world than about the attitude of the Progress Party towards Norway's participation in the world. Now, as we know, the world's leading superpower is over 270 million. residents and their resources. Norway is, as Korvald once said, a small country in the world, with 4.5 million. residents. The basis of the Progress Party's policy has always been that we support an active international commitment. But at the same time we have said that we see it useful to prioritize the resources and use them where it is most appropriate, and I also believe that the representative Hove agrees fundamentally. What I'd like to think of is a deepening of, is what he thinks is more positive with the US involvement in the world than with what the Progress Party thinks about Norway's involvement in the world. Is that perhaps the nuclear strategy or the role of Latin America? What is the reason for his statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e960	This is a typical example of something developing because you can't push yourself to make a comment, which is a bit in the dynamics of the replication itself. So I couldn't stand for it, given Gundersen's positive record of what the United States is contributing to the Third World – and let me underline it here in the Third World – linked, among other things. to put in place funds to combat AIDS and a number of other issues, to make the observation that the United States' position on issues in the Third World at least seemed more positive than the impression I have received from the Progressive Party's attitude to make contributions from Norway to developments in the Third World. And that was essentially what was the point. As for any praise to the United States, I think there may be every reason to praise the United States in many contexts, and there may be reason to have an absolutely critical attitude towards the United States in other contexts. And I guess I'm going to say that the negative vis-à-vis the United States that I expressed was related directly to a criticism of non-payment to the United Nations system, a criticism that I maintain and believe that there is every reason to argue, even though the United States is obviously also contributing in some contexts. But the positive was clearly linked to the questions in the line exchange, and it is certainly not the nuclear strategy that was it especially central to my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e967	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e970	In about 21⁄2 weeks, UNCTAD X will start in Bangkok. That conference gives us a new opportunity to contact representatives of developing countries and other nations on a further debate on the need for driving rules for world trade. Although the WTO is now seemingly fully in place, including in Geneva, the process must continue. We have a globalized economy, where the big and rich countries largely do what they want. It also does multinational companies. It is the small and developing countries that have everything to do with binding global agreements. The aim must be for developing countries to participate in a fair world trade based on fundamental social rights, environmental requirements and human rights considerations, where the rich countries provide access to their products in the south. Isolation, as we know, has never led anyone out of poverty. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take the initiative for Norway to discuss these issues with just a tone-setting country — u-country to mark — during UNCTAD X in 2 1⁄2 weeks. The globalised economy has also increasingly pushed forward regional cooperation structures in different parts of the world. In Europe, the integration and cooperation process has gone so fast after the first holes were knocked in the Berlin Wall that we have some problems to follow, at least up here. The EU is today the second most important player in creating an economic and stable development in Eastern and Central Europe, not to mention Russia. The Helsinki meeting speeded up the negotiations in the enlargement process by involving all candidate countries from Eastern and Central Europe in membership negotiations during February. From the Norwegian side, there has been broad agreement to assist the candidate countries in the building of democratic institutions, the safeguarding of human rights and the environment and the development of a functioning civil society. This is done both through participation in regional cooperation bodies in our neighbourhoods and through publicly supported projects. Let me underline from my own experience with seminars on democracy, among other things. parliamentarians, party representatives and trade union trustees that we have a great responsibility to ensure that fundamental values such as human dignity, women's participation and welfare systems become an integral part of democracy building in the new candidate countries. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement and the Prime Minister's statement on the contribution to the enlargement process indicate that the Government will pursue a more offensive European policy – and I also refer to the debate that has taken place here earlier today. It requires, as the Chairman of the Committee stated in his statement, concrete action and new initiatives. We're going to think a little bit about what it means that the candidate countries are just candidate countries, i.e., pre-member countries, because that means that they also get a completely different status compared to Norway. It will have to force a Norwegian strategy for our cooperation, among others. with Poland and the Baltic countries. I would also like to point out that at the Helsinki meeting, agreement was reached on an action plan for the northern dimension, and that it is also important here that we are constantly on the road to ensure that Russia becomes an important part – not just of the Baltic Sea region – and also to ensure that this dimension is given a substance. I said isolation has never brought anyone out of poverty. There is also a lack of democracy. Development requires democracy. Norway has now completed its presidency in the OSCE, but is still in the leadership troika. I think it is important to look at both the OSCE's opportunities and the OSCE's limitations. All too often, the OSCE intervenes when conflicts have developed into civil wars or regional acts of violence. The OSCE must work to a greater extent than at present on preventive measures and the long-term development of democracy, well-being and anti-conflict measures. In such a process, the OSCE would like to cooperate with other organizations, and I would like to stress the importance of this work not only in the Caucasus but also in Central Asia and other parts of the former Soviet Union. I think this is particularly important in the time that is coming. Finally, I just want to join some of what Erik Solheim said about the concerns that we have the opportunity to have Haider as Chairman of the OSCE in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e995	In my presentation on 20 January, I drew attention to the main foreign policy challenges I thought – and I believe – Norway is facing at the beginning of a new millennium. These include relations with Russia and the United States, developments in Europe and the need for enhanced international cooperation in an increasingly globalised world. Only through wide international involvement will Norway have influence and can safeguard national interests and values. This means that we need to support a stable development in our neighbourhoods. We must take responsibility for and contribute to security in Europe. And we are to take our share of responsibility for international peace and development, protect human rights and contribute to the development of democracy. The WTO and UNCTAD are important here, and I can assure the representative Nybakk that there have been extensive consultations under UNCTAD X. However, I would be careful to draw the conclusion that Solheim's representative seems to draw with regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' relatively comprehensive responsibility for our activities. EU countries are now actively working to put in place the temporary structures for EU security and defence cooperation. That is why we keep in constant contact with the Portuguese Presidency and the other EU countries. I met, as you know, the Portuguese Foreign Minister in Lisbon three weeks ago, and last week we had follow-up talks at the office level. We also meet the EU countries more informally. In the next week, what is known to the representatives of the Gazettes will be a meeting with representatives of NATO and with NATO's deputies, where we will address precisely the formulation of European defence and security policy. I am not going to repeat everything I said in my statement, but I would like to stress that we are working for European allies who are not members of the European Union to have their own consultation arrangements with the new interim bodies as well as the meetings that will take place between the EU and NATO. It is important for us that meetings are scheduled regularly, that they are based on an open and inclusive attitude, and that the agenda for meetings is broad. We see it as desirable that the arrangements that are being set up should be based on what we have today with the Western Union. We also want military cooperation to develop in line with civil matters. The representative Petersen thought the fundamental question is whether we get a proper solution. We don't know the answer to that now. Once the negotiations have been exhausted, we will have to make an assessment of this issue and whether what we have achieved is satisfactory for us. In this context, it is important for us that NATO's central role in our common security is not weakened. It will take some time before the EU will be able to carry out major military crisis management operations on its own. But we also need to be prepared for the possibility that cooperation can go beyond so-called Petersberg operations. However, as I said in the statement, developments in the long term could lead to the EU countries increasingly meeting with coordinated positions in the alliance. It is therefore important for us, together with other allies, to maintain the role of NATO as the central forum for discussion of defence and security issues. The government wants to contribute in its own way to the broad cooperation that is now developing across Europe's dividing lines. We've done this, and we're still going to do this. We have provided practical assistance to a number of EU candidate countries, as part of their preparations for membership negotiations. We will continue to do this, to the extent that the candidate countries so wish. Not least in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, we have helped to build up central institutions and structures, both bilaterally and in conjunction with other Nordic countries. in the field of justice, the environment and energy. In parallel, we have strengthened bilateral cooperation with all the candidate countries. We're also actively using the tools we have at our disposal. The government is now looking at how we can strengthen cooperation with and support for the candidate countries in the future. The representative, Mr Wohnning, wondered that Norway could provide its support for EU enlargement. I must admit that I do not understand that wonder. When these countries want membership, it would create contradictions and new dividing lines in Europe if not these desires were taken seriously. It is therefore in Norway’s interest to support this process, in my view and that of the Government, because it has to do with European security and stability — and this is also the case with Norwegian security and stability. This will otherwise come back to the Government in the European message that is being presented to the autumn. We have already taken initiatives for cooperation strategies with both the candidate countries and Russia, in line with, among other things. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Stable political development and economic progress in Russia are of great importance for Europe and Norway. Our largest neighbouring country today is characterised by the new political situation that arose after President Yeltsin left, by the war in Chechnya, by regionalisation and by major economic and social challenges. We do not know the outcome of all this, nor do we know how developments in Russian domestic policy will affect its foreign policy. However, the government attaches great importance to further developing cooperation with the new leadership in Russia and is therefore now carrying out a review, as I mentioned, of Russia's policy. Such a review does not indicate a comprehensive conversion. But there is a need to look at the objectives we have, and not least the means. I am thinking first and foremost of the CEEC cooperation programme. I also refer to the budget debate we had in Stortinget on 10 December last year, and will come back to Stortinget with the matter at a later stage. The situation in North-West Russia and Barents cooperation will remain central. Norway has special interests to care for in the northern regions, and the Government will therefore continue to concentrate its efforts in this area. The nuclear action plan and the work on food issues such as fisheries, transport and industry will also be central. The representative of Blankenburg asked about the possibilities of making Norway visible after the OSCE Presidency. The membership of the Security Council will be such an opportunity. Now this is not an objective in itself, as the representative of Solheim was involved, but we believe that Norway's place in the Security Council for the period 2001-2002 is a natural consequence of our willingness to take responsibility in international cooperation. As a member of the Security Council, the Government will contribute to the strengthening of the role and legitimacy of the United Nations and the Security Council in a world that is growing ever closer together. The need for a strong UN is greater than ever, among other things. the two new UN reports on Rwanda and Srebrenica, also referred to by the representative of Solheim, clearly show. This requires the UN to address the major challenges facing the world community, such as peace, poverty and development. If the UN is to be able to stop new genocides, it is in these areas the main effort must be put in. The effectiveness of the UN apparatus must be implemented in line with the focus on these main tasks. Norway, together with the other Nordic countries in particular, will continue to play a strong role in this reform. The representative of Solheim also asked what we want with membership of the Security Council. We are to be sober about Norway's ability to influence the agenda of the Security Council. It is that international events dominate to a large extent. Nevertheless, we have a number of objectives: Membership will provide us with a new platform for the work on fundamental values such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Membership will give us a new platform for our work on peace and reconciliation. Membership will give us a vote when international conflicts are discussed in the Security Council. We will thus be able to do our part to ensure the legitimacy of the United Nations' role in the use of power. Membership will give us a strategic location when the mandate for complex peace operations is to be established. We have competence from participation in various and complex operations, including: in the Balkans. Membership will give us opportunities to help increase the effectiveness of the Security Council through closer cooperation with regional organisations, where we can draw on the experiences of the OSCE Presidency. Membership will give us an opportunity to intensify work on the main areas of action for Norwegian development assistance, including: the need for development and peace-building efforts in Africa. The choice takes place as known in the autumn. The candidate situation is far from simple. There are four candidates for the two Western places: Ireland, Italy, Turkey and Norway. If we are to succeed, systematic action must be taken against the United Nations Member State. This work will have the highest priority in months to come. So far we have received broad support for our candidacy, but it is difficult to predict the outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1054	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1057	I am quite in agreement with the Foreign Minister that developments in Russia may now be the greatest uncertainty factor in Europe, not necessarily because we can imagine a very dramatic development in the neighbourhood of Russia, not necessarily because there will be a dramatic situation in Russia, but briefly because one knows so little about what will actually happen. Now the Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned several initiatives that one intends to bring later, a review of Russia policy is mentioned. The EU has just discussed Russia at its Foreign Minister’s meeting on Tuesday, and adopted something that needs to be called in practice relatively mild measures, but which has been met with clear reactions in Russia. Measures are about not signing a cooperation agreement; they are also about transferring TACIS funds from one year to the next, and turning part of the measure into work in Russia towards democracy and humanitarian efforts from other cooperation actions. I have not seen the Norwegian Government’s assessment of this type of measure. I said in my speech that I initially doubt whether this type of action has any particular impact on the situation in Russia, perhaps the measures should have been stronger to have an effect, but then I am also uncertain whether the effect would be positive or negative. That's a bad answer. However, the starting point for my part is that I am critical of that type of action, and the question is what is the Government’s assessment of the actions that the EU has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1066	I agree with the representative of Blankenborg that the situation in Russia gives cause for concern, both the general economic and social situation, and then especially linked to the war in Chechnya, although I think we should remind ourselves that the presidential change now took place according to constitutional rules, and there was a choice that also followed the rules that we have. This is, after all, a positive development in Russia that we should appreciate and support. When it comes to reactions to Russia's warfare in Chechnya, I think that is a difficult question. I agree with, inter alia: The representative of Ingvald Godal, who has pointed out the need to respond. We have reacted bilaterally from the Norwegian side, and I have also reacted earlier as Chairman of the OSCE in condemning violence and stressing the need for political dialogue. I think we still have to do that. At the same time, I would like to agree with the representative of Blankenborg that action or reaction should be taken with caution leading to the isolation of Russia. And my understanding is that they – as Blankenborg himself says – mild reactions from the EU, namely holding back some money from the TACIS programme, are just such a mild form of reaction. It also shows that, on the EU side, there is a need to show an attitude, but at the same time it does not want to isolate Russia. I will have the opportunity to address these questions with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov on Monday and Tuesday in Moscow. I had a discussion on the phone with Minister of Foreign Affairs Albright a few days ago, and we are in close contact with how we should react. But for the time being, I believe that the most important thing is to draw Russia and not isolate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1078	I would like to take the opportunity to ask Minister of Foreign Affairs Vollebæk a question about the information that appeared in the press a few days ago, where it turns out that the Prime Minister of the Government of Iraq detained in Kuwait after the invasion in August 1990, Colonel Ala'a Hussein Ali, has been staying in Norway for a number of years. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is problematic, among other things. in relation to our allies who made the invasion of Kuwait in their time. Another problem is that potential war criminals can stay in Norway without their identity being hidden. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to comment on this and perhaps also to discuss how it can be avoided in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1085	If I didn't know better, I would have thought that I was now in the spontaneous question hour, then I would probably have been better prepared for such a question. But I would like to try to answer the representative Danielsen here and now, and I could perhaps give a more adequate answer in writing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not know that he was coming to the country. There has been some discussion over and over with the State's Foreign Affairs Directorate about the extent to which it was known or not. My understanding is that he had given the UNHCR a false identity. He came to Norway as a quota refugee within the scheme we have with the UNHCR. As far as I remember – but it is possible that I am wrong – you did not know who he was when he came to Norway. However, it seems to be the case that those who worked with him, at an early stage, became familiar with his right identity, and from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we have greatly regretted that this was not then communicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is a matter we have raised with the responsible authorities, both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, who are responsible for the UDI. I am not aware of whether we have received a final report on this matter, but of course I would like to make that report available to the representative of Danielsen and Stortinget when we get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1094	In connection with the reply from the representative Blankenburg, I would like to say that I believe all the historical experience shows that when one faces forces like those currently in the Kremlin, one should be very careful to make Chamberlain his political guide. What I asked for was essentially a completely different theme. I think we can quickly conclude that in the area of security policy only good solutions are good enough for Norway. When we look at NATO as it is today, there is a gathering of nations that meet with an equivalent status – not as heavy, of course, but with an equivalent status. The Americans in particular have been very alert to the formation of groupings within the NATO Assembly. When the EU develops its own security policy identity, and as Solana has taken that job, there is every reason to believe and expect that this can be serious. The EU will then become a separate entity in this area. And then we'll have that situation when we get to NATO, that of course the United States will meet as a unit, the EU will meet as a unit, and then we'll get in there. It is quite clear that there will have consequences for our chances of being able to exercise influence, as the Foreign Minister was about to do. I could use an image to say that we have to assume that our impact will be about the same as the impact of Bastisen here in the house when the Workers' Party and e.g. Right has held its group meeting. I think it's stupid in this situation to fool ourselves, and I think we're wondering ourselves if we think with the developments that we're now seeing, we can keep up with the full impact in NATO that we should be absolutely interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1103	I fully agree with the representative Godal that it is foolish to fool himself, and it is foolish to fool others, and therefore I have tried throughout the process we have had in relation to the relationship with the European Security and Defence Mechanism, to be realistic, both pointing to the problems and pointing to the objectives we have. But in addition to that it's stupid to fool yourself, I think it's also stupid to give up before you've really come to the goal. And I'm a little surprised at the statements of the representative of Godal, which indicate that he already doesn't think we're getting a proper solution. I agree that it is difficult, but I do not think we should give up. This would be wrong from Norway’s point of view today, because Norway is not a member of the EU, and Norway will not be a member of the EU — even if the majority of people would adopt it today — for many years. That's why we have to get a system based on the situation we have. And then I assume that it is in the interest of the whole Storting that we support the Government in the efforts we are now making to get the best possible arrangement for the ESDP. We believe that this is in Norway's interest, and I assume that the bulk of the population thinks it is. And then it's our task, my task and to the extent that all Norwegian politicians' task to work to get mechanisms that make us, even if we can't be part of the decision-making process, can be in the process of shaping the decision. Because, in my opinion – if we can have a proper system – we will have the necessary influence and knowledge both in relation to NATO and in relation to European crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1110	I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for responding to what we are going to use the Security Council candidate for. It is a topic that we will certainly have ample opportunity to come back to if we succeed in this project, and I would like to congratulate you on that. I am not as pleased with what he said in my post about understanding that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs must be more of an engine throughout the internationalisation of Norwegian society. Foreign policy today is not as it was at Fürst Metternich's time, and I am sure that the Foreign Minister too agrees. There's nothing going on between diplomats in closed rooms. Internationalisation is currently taking place in universities and colleges, in business, in a series of non-governmental organisations and in almost all other departments. Some people have to think in a way about how Norway, as a whole, will equip itself for the era of globalisation, and how responsible it would be if it weren't in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't know. So a direct question that is important to be clarified: we have earlier today been involved in the danger that Jörg Haider can enter the management of Austria as Prime Minister, Foreign Minister or in another position. And I have two questions in this regard. One is whether Norway will deal with this in the same way that the world has long been dealing with Kurt Waldheim, i.e. to limit contact with him as a representative of Austria to the absolute minimum of what had to be done. Kurt Waldheim was hardly enough on state visits anywhere after his role became known, and if you now have a politician who openly takes up a questionable relationship with genocide and war, it is worth considering the same. This became even more acute in relation to the OSCE. The main objective of the OSCE is to prevent war and conflict, it's to stop and warn this early, it's to stop genocide. And then to get into the management of the OSCE a politician who, first of all, doesn't know the difference between the war of aggression and the war of defence, which is quite clear that his statement about the Waffen SS points out, and, secondly, obviously doesn't understand that what was going on during the Second World War was the greatest genocide in human history – how such a politician should be suited today to contributing to conflict resolution and preventing genocide, is very difficult to understand. If so, what will Norway do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1121	Just to comment on globalisation, I agree that it is important. But precisely because it's important I also think it's a point to draw with other departments. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is at the heart of globalisation, but I want, for example, to do so. point out that in the government's work on the long-term programme, globalisation will have to be an important element, and in this context, for example. The Ministry of Finance also has a very central department that we have to involve in this work. As for the question of how we will deal with a possible Austrian foreign minister named Jörg Haider, I ask respect for not speculating too much about it. We have been quoted earlier in this debate today as Jörg Haider has said, which is the greatest reason to distance ourselves. We've also done that in the context of where this fell, and we can still do it. At the same time, it is my hope and my expectation that in Austria you will see the responsibility you have in forming a new government. I had a brief conversation with Austrian Minister of Foreign Affairs Wolfgang Schüssel last Friday, and there is no doubt that the situation is difficult. One option will, for example: is to print new selections relatively quickly because there is no basis for forming a government. It will also make the attitude of Haider visible. I think, to the extent that it has already gone so far before one wants to talk to Haider about the formation of government, that Austrian politicians also do not want to cooperate with him. And it's our hope that that attitude keeps going.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1134	The Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed some wonder at my question mark about the Government's justification for its position on the desirability of EU enlargement. I think the foreign minister's wonder was based on a misunderstanding of what I pointed to. What I pointed out was not in itself the possible contradiction in Norway's view as an unconditional advantage for other European countries, to be a disadvantage to Norway; it is a form of inconsistency with which it is possible to live in politics. But what I expressed scepticism for was the added justification, namely that Norway is a member of this because it is expanding the EEA territory. It is, of course, right statistically to extend the free trade area itself, and that is quite right. But what is not for me is that, like all other agreements in this world, the EEA Agreement also aims to regulate any conflict of interest and any dispute between the parties to the agreement. It is a problem which is not unknown to the current government, because there have been hypothetically quite a number of such conflicts of interest so far. In that image, I have problems realizing that it may be in Norway's interest that the other party should become as heavy as possible, while the party we belong to is obviously not going to expand and thus not win anything in political weight. That's where I have trouble understanding the government's way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1139	As for the possible misunderstanding, I cannot recall – but I often remember incorrectly, so I should not claim this – but I do not believe that I myself have attached my support to the enlargement of the European Union directly to the extension of the EEA area. I can't remember that I've done that, but it's possible. At least it hasn't been what's been underlying my thinking when I've commented on this. But I see that it may be interesting, because what is important with the EEA Agreement is that through it we are part of the internal market, and there is no doubt that Norwegian business is largely satisfied with the arrangements contained in the EEA Agreement. Now this is different for the candidate countries, where we have free trade agreements, so that this may be taken care of. But I would say that getting an economic order, which we will get in the EEA context, will not necessarily, at least from the business point of view, be negative, but rather positive. When I have expressed my positive opinion on this, it is, as I also said in my speech today, in the knowledge I have of the candidate countries, their clear desire to join, and the need to support this in order to avoid new dividing lines in Europe. I do think that even if the representative also has a different starting point from the government in relation to the EU, the referendum in 1994 must be taken into account. It is the basis of the government that I belong to, but which must also have been the basis for possibly a government based on the Right, and then it is, I believe, in the interest of any Norwegian government, in the interests of Norwegian security, to avoid new dividing lines in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1144	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1147	A central point in this debate has been what kind of reaction Norway should take to Russia in the face of the brutal warfare that is taking place today in Chechnya. As the representative of Blankenborg, among others: There is always an assessment between the purely mental – what one wants to achieve with a political decision, i.e. the appropriate – and the moral justification for a decision. The point is what leads up, measured against the moral standards that should be in foreign policy with regard to human rights and other fundamental rights. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that thinking about Norway’s former role, among other things, can easily be seen as a double standard in relation to human rights. as regards the suspension of Greece from the Council of Europe, with a background in the junta regime and what happened at that time. Similar things can be mentioned, such as the relationship with Turkey and the reaction pattern towards Turkey, so that you can say that the reactions you are now expressing on this occasion – that there must be as much dialogue with Russia as possible, that positive means must be used to the fullest extent possible – in this way you will find it strange. What you can easily fear -- I'm not saying that that's necessarily the case -- is that you can get a bison taste that if you're big enough, you can do whatever you want in the world community. What is the fundamental and powerful universal power of human rights is precisely that they are also used, and that it is clearly said that they must be suspended in relation to the large countries. This is just like a cross of thought. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the extent of the abuses in Chechnya is so extensive that it must be clearly stated. With regard to the presentation, I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he underlines the historic and positive nature of the Helsinki Summit giving Turkey candidate status. Developments in Turkey, as in Russia, are also a key issue for the development of stable and positive conditions in the world society. Turkey is a central country, not only in Europe, but not least in relation to developments in the Muslim world. I would like to commend the Government for the attitude it has taken in this area. I also think it is positive that the Government emphasises the importance of Norway following up its international commitments regarding international operations. In particular, the statement refers to St.meld. No 38 for 1998-99. The Minister of Foreign Affairs clearly stresses that Norway will facilitate the deployment of a response force of up to 3 500 people from all sectors of defence, and that Norway will provide the necessary resources to achieve this. But it is clear that this can easily also become a conflict issue between safeguarding the defence policy interests and what needs to be done here at home. I hope that the Government will also follow up the local and necessary defence policy things that need to be done here in Norway. Finally, I would like to ask the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done in relation to what I took up in a reply to Vollebæk regarding Kuwait, which was our ally in the Gulf War. Have you taken the initiative to explain to Kuwait what happened, and, if so, have you regretted the incident?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1160	First to the representative Jakobsen, who tried an offensive against Thorbjørn Jagland and Haakon Blankenborg. I think it was offensive to be an early breathing exercise in relation to an early EU debate that neither Thorbjørn Jagland nor Haakon Blankenborg have announced. I could imagine putting Jacobsen's problem on his head by asking: Can the Central Party ever imagine any situation that would suggest that it is relevant to discuss Norwegian membership of the EU? The working party finds it difficult to temporalize such a situation, but we find it irresponsible to exclude it in x the number of periods of ageing. That's the issue. Of course, I fully respect the fact that someone thinks it is likely that you are against for a long time to come. But then the question is, is it so to understand that the Central Party would also have asked that the people be asked to the Council a third time? There are new generations of people who may want to take this issue into consideration and take a stand. Then I think it's fundamentally undemocratic to say that it has Johan J. Jakobsen and I definitely once and for all in 1994 – together with a lot of others. So to my real concern. I am pleased with the foreign minister's emphasis on developments in Russia. It is obviously of great importance to the whole of Europe, yes, more than that. No one can predict with certainty the long-term development of Russia. The nuclear weapons are, for example, nuclear weapons. paradoxically, Russians are becoming more important in parallel with the decline and weakening of the Russian conventional forces. But it's just too skeptical to mention the development of our eastern neighbour in security policy terms and terms. It can easily give too much attention to problems and not to opportunities. Now, of course, there is a great opportunity to be horrified by many features of Russian development: the war in Chechnya, the mafia states in large parts of the Russian economy, corruption, the declining standard of living for many, the narrow nationalism that strong groups in Russian politics are festering, and the decay of institutions and schemes that are completely rid of the bathwater, because too many would start from the very beginnings of absolutely everything. However, when I am not a pessimist on behalf of Russia, it is primarily due to the fact that, over a decade, one has come a long way to consolidate the people's rule in a vast empire that after centuries of dictatorship and command economy has no democratic tradition of returning. Let's not forget that. Well, we're going to make demands and be critical, but who can with their heart demand that in 10 or 20 years Russia will be able to achieve what we've spent close to a few centuries getting into the Western world? A broad estimate is therefore important not only in Norway but across Europe, with a focus on inclusive attitudes towards Russian developments. The statement bears witness to an offensive attitude, but the evidence of it will of course be the follow-up. I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs agrees without further delay that one can bring Norway's own financial contribution to the East European initiative into focus, after the partly fatal cuts that we saw at the beginning of this government's work from 1997 onwards. And I guess Halvorsbøle here is the first crossroads if it shouldn't stop with the good intentions. Our efforts must be part of a comprehensive European strategy to include Russia in Europe. There is no doubt that the EU has a key position with its northern dimension. But we too, even with our exclusion, have something to contribute through our neighbourhood and our rich experience and, not least, in the light of our strong economy, also in a European context. But foreign policy must then be the driving force behind the use of financial resources. It must not be the case that fiscal policy and cyclical ideas govern our ability to pursue a long-term foreign policy. We are really talking here about a long-term investment in peace, security and development in our neighbourhoods. I hope that fiscal politicians in all parties take inwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1177	The Minister of Foreign Affairs, in his presentation, has given a lot of attention to security and stability in our part of the world. However, the direction for Norway is not very clear. It seems that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is tying up because of what is becoming a problem for the Government, namely the absence of a clear and unambiguous European strategy. The OSCE adventure is over, and new challenges await. There is an important transition, and the Government must therefore extend the course further. The Minister of Foreign Affairs points out that Norway’s security is linked to the economic, social and political development of our neighbourhoods. It is a correct observation, but at the same time these are areas where Norway notes restrictions. We are outside EU cooperation and have to actually pay ourselves into much of what contributes to growth and prosperity in our part of the world. The evening post indicates that from 1995 to 2000, Norway’s contribution to the EU has tripled, from 461 million. NOK 1,379 billion. In addition, we lose many of the net gains that benefit EU countries in terms of increased trade and trade. Norway’s Presidency of the Baltic Sea Council was set in a strange light when the Nordic EU countries and Germany met in December 1999 to discuss trade and trade in the Baltic Sea region. Norway was not invited. In May 1998, the Minister of Foreign Affairs would give priority to Baltic Sea cooperation as well as Barents cooperation. But where has the concrete effort and the concrete results come from? The EU spends enormous resources on its eastward enlargement. For the period 2000-2006, the EU has set at DKK 570 billion. Our Scandinavian neighbours, Sweden and Denmark, use considerable resources to support the establishment of food and environment in former Eastern Europe. In the period 1989-98, Sweden alone spent DKK 6.5 billion in support of economic conversion and environmental objectives. In comparison, the NHO was answered when the last autumn asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs how much money was available for business-oriented measures: 4 million. kr. Norway will face major enlargement challenges. Candidate countries will be able to benefit from closer contact with the EU on a number of issues of economic and political importance. Even we will be dependent on good bilateral relations, be it for Portugal, Finland or Germany, but it will hardly be enough to ensure that our voice is heard, and that our interests are taken into account in all contexts. Furthermore, it seems clear to the Right that although the EEA Agreement will regulate our relationship with an enlarged EU, there are specific problems associated with the candidate countries with which we currently have bilateral trade agreements. We will therefore ask the Government to be offensive in view of the loss of trade benefits in connection with the East Enlargement. The right has provided for a more co-ordinated use of food aid for nutritional purposes. Here are good examples for both Sweden and Denmark that we should learn from. For our part, our great neighbour Russia in particular is up to date. The country is still struggling with the economic and political heritage of the past, and progress towards democracy has not been guided. It is important for Norway to provide the necessary framework for investment in this region. Right will support the Government’s efforts to facilitate an extended strategy towards Russia, but the Right stresses that it must involve concrete efforts. Coordination with EU programmes is also important, not least to prevent duplication and bilateralisation of our relationship with Russia. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his statement that Norwegian European policy is not static when the environment changes. That's a proper observation. However, it remains to be seen what challenges the Government believes this poses for Norway. The Foreign Minister's statement did not give any clues in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1198	It has been less than one year since Norway took part in a military operation in Kosovo. Participation has updated a debate on the basis of which such operations are based. It has been claimed by many, at the latest in a Joint Declaration of Russia and China last year, that no State, either unilaterally or in cooperation with others, can intervene in the territory of another State without the consent of that State or the UN Security Council. Without such consent there is a breach of the principle of sovereignty, it is said. Russia has upheld this principle to oppose interference with Chechnya. China has done the same in relation to Tibet. It may be easy initially to endorse a principle of sovereignty. It makes sense that a country is autonomous on its own territory. If the inhabitants do not like the ruling regime, they can always provide a shift, either through elections or other, less peaceful shifts of power. However, the idea of a principle of sovereignty is not a matter of careful consideration. Many international law lawyers claim that international law has no sovereignty principle. The rule these lawyers set out is that a state should have its domestic policy in peace only as far as it does not promote results other states find undesirable. This rule expresses the idea that national law is governed by international law — in other words, the relationship between national law and international law is monastic. Expressing dissatisfaction with domestic policies to another country can be called interference with domestic policies. Even more clearly, there is intervention in domestic policy, when you look at different boycotts being launched against different countries. The most serious intervention is the military intervention. The idea of the monisme looks fine in theory, but in practice the problem is that dissatisfaction with the domestic policies of another country is not expressed on the basis of legal considerations where equal treatment, legality and predictability are guiding principles. In practice, the rule is that dissatisfaction is expressed in terms of what is realistically desirable and possible. So it is not that a state can demand to have its domestic policy in peace. However, the Kosovo crisis has called for the intervention court to be subject to legalistic assessments in addition to real-world policy. The strong reactions from China and Russia in the run-up to and during the Kosovo intervention have led many to ask for clarification of the legal basis for such interventions. Norway should definitely support such a requirement for the clarification of international law in this area. Homes for intervention are chartered by the United Nations, but only if none of the permanent members of the Security Council vote against. China and Russia often vote against. Therefore, intervention will rarely be pre-sanctioned by the United Nations. So what do you do? It is unacceptable for the world community to know about gross violations of international law without intervention. The UN Charter is unclear in situations where it is not possible to obtain authorisation from the Security Council. One of the reasons for this is that the UN Charter was designed shortly after World War II, and at that time it had the experience that wars were largely fought between states and not between ethnic groups within one state. The situation in the world requires an intervention warrant to be provided. In the last issue of the American Journal of International Law, there are attempts to think new. Reference is made to the fact that state practices are a very central contributor to the development and definition of international law. From this point of view, a review has been carried out of what happened during the Kosovo case and looked at whether it is possible to establish some guidelines that could help the next time the world is confronted with such a situation as in Kosovo. The alternative is not not to intervene, but to intervene in such a way that most countries will find the intervention to comply with international law. First of all, the conditions set for a legitimate intervention are that there must be serious violations of international law. Furthermore, the intervention must be from a collective of countries and not just one country. The intervention shall pursue only humanitarian objectives and not objectives of political interest for the States of intervention. The intervention shall be continuously monitored by the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1225	There was little in the Foreign Minister's statement about the importance of Nordic cooperation in realising the visions of the post-war years. A number of organisations are referred to as contributors to broad cooperation in Europe, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The OSCE, the Council of Europe, the Barents Council and the Baltic Sea Council, apart from the EU and NATO. I believe that the Nordic Council also has a role to play in building dividing lines and contributing to the security and security of our neighbourhoods. The northern dimension, Barents' cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation and Arctic cooperation are essentially government cooperation in the areas of the Nordic Council. The Council has been active in these areas for several years. The vision must be that the Nordic Council is the parliamentary body most capable of producing people's views on how this cooperation is to be conducted. The Council is already the leading body in the Baltic Sea cooperation. The Council, if it so wishes, may be the leader of the Arctic Committee and, if it so wishes, the Council may strongly argue for the northern dimension in relation to the European Parliament. In addition, the Council has its traditional instruments to use: the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic governments. I believe that Nordic cooperation needs to be exploited better and not least take inward that the look is increasingly being turned outside. Unfortunately, the leadership of the parties does not give high priority to the work done by the Nordic Council. You don't get involved in the design of the political basis for our activity. In fact, there has been a negative development in the Nordic Council. Until the mid 1980s, partisan leadership was called evenly over the heavier represented in Nordic cooperation. I'm not going to wonder too much about the reason for this, but it's clear that it's more tempting to let Nordic cooperation go directly and bilaterally between prime ministers and state councils. The fact that three Nordic countries are now EU members, while Iceland and Norway are not, obviously also leads to a certain difference in focus and resource use. There is nothing negative about this, but cooperation becomes vulnerable and more random if the parliamentary platform is confused through the Nordic Council. The enlargement of the EU, and partly NATO, is perhaps the biggest task we're facing. Regardless of our different relationship with the EU and NATO, we will face significant challenges, for these are processes that are at the heart of our time the most important peace and welfare project. Our common political challenge as Nordic parliamentarians is to contribute to the transformation of Central and Eastern Europe in a way that reduces disparities and contradictions and not the opposite. The forthcoming enlargement of the EU involves more changes than most of us are aware of today. A successful enlargement process will benefit stability in Europe and hopefully strengthen Europe's contribution to the world society. With Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Baltic countries, Slovenia, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Cyprus as members of the EU, the EU will become without comparison the most vital organisation for European and security policy coordination and action. An EU made up of twenty members has to rely on more extensive decentralisation and delegation. Some questions will be too big for the nation states, nor will they hear at home at a transnational level. Rather, they will belong to the natural field of action of regional cooperation organisations. I think it is important that security issues are brought even more into the interparliamentary dialogue. The Nordic Council is such a forum. EU security cooperation is in the pipeline, and all Nordic countries have to deal with the changes that will occur. I believe that there is a need for stronger European coordination in defence and security policy, and that the European Union has a central role in the efforts to do so. In this area, too, we need to have closer dialogue between the Nordic countries – just as the northern dimension is about building new bridges to the east. The northern dimension is an attempt to create a comprehensive EU policy for the development of our common relations with Russia, and for the development of the northern regions of Europe, in other words another task for a closer and better Nordic dialogue. I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to take note of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1242	Despite advanced international cooperation, despite good intentions and efforts, still characterize war, assault and distress many countries. Therefore, the work for peace, reconciliation, human rights and a fairer distribution is our greatest challenge. Our own security and economic prosperity are closely intertwined not only with our neighbours and other European countries, it is also closely linked to the situation in countries in other parts of the world. Our contribution to the UN is part of our responsibility for people all over the world to benefit from the benefits we take for granted. At the same time, it is in our own national interest to contribute to the ability and right of the UN and international organisations to act. This combination of commitment and national interest was behind the search and implementation of the very demanding task of leading the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe last year. Globalisation is becoming a moderating concept in which we may lose sight of the important content, which is an increasingly interconnected world – economic and political – that also imposes increased demands on international organisations. In particular, smaller countries will have an even greater need for these organisations to function properly. The goal is better governance under new conditions. That is why we are an important supporter and contributor in many international organisations – from the World Trade Organisation to the Council of Europe and a number of others. Each of these organisations provides a framework for interaction between countries and between individuals. – Today, foreign policy is closely linked to domestic policy. Increasing internationalisation is not just a challenge for politicians, it is a process that people notice whether they work in business, in the public or voluntary sector or in other contexts. This development is part of Norway, globally and regionally. These include: In this context, I have been a strong supporter of the EEA Agreement ever since it was negotiated. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has presented several important developments in the EU. I would like to highlight here the deepening of foreign policy cooperation, with the establishment of a European security and defence policy. NATO will continue to be the basis for the collective security of its members and has an important role to play in crisis management. It is important to note that this was also emphasised at the EU Summit in Helsinki last month. At the same time, the EU took an important step towards enhanced cooperation in foreign and security policy and towards a better capacity for crisis management. We are working for – with broad support from allies within and outside the EU – that transatlantic links are not only maintained but strengthened. We believe that increasing European responsibility for its own security must take place in a way that strengthens the links between Europe and the United States. This also sees the Americans as desirable. The government is further working for a satisfactory link with the ESDP for Norway and the other European allied countries outside the EU. The Helsinki Summit gave clear commitments to find arrangements for the allied non-EU countries. The NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in December last year also showed that we have broad support for our views. At the beginning of each new Presidency of the European Union, I have focused on having thorough discussions with my colleagues in the Presidency country. The ESDP is just becoming one of several important issues when I meet the Portuguese Prime Minister in Lisbon next week. At an EEA summit in Istanbul in November, Finland’s Prime Minister Lipponen, who was then President of the European Union, wanted, among others: to intensify direct contact between EFTA and EU expert councils. I will now follow up on this as well. In addition, next week I will meet President Prodi of the European Commission in Brussels. We will continue the dialogue we started when we met in November. The conversation is part of the close contact with the Commission at all levels. I would also like to comment specifically on the government's work on current EEA legislation. The objective of the EEA is, as you know, a common regulatory framework in the EU and in the EFTA countries. However, we have a contractual right to reject new legislation if there are serious grounds for doing so. Rejecting legislation by veto is not an end in itself. The aim is that the rules applicable in Norway are good and satisfactory. There are many ways to follow. The right of veto or reservation is one. But we also have the power to influence the Commission in the preparatory phase. We can come to an agreement on the adaptation of the legislation to specific Norwegian circumstances. We can discuss transitional arrangements with the EU side so that the phase-in of new legislation makes sense. In addition, more EU rules are being developed and contentious points are being challenged by the EU's own Member States. Today's conflicts can be tomorrow's solutions. Rejecting legislation from inclusion in the EEA has, of course, a cost side. Such a situation will also affect our EFTA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein. Therefore, the Government carefully assesses each legislation, both our ability to adapt it or get transitional arrangements and possible countermeasures from the EU if we are to reject it. Stable development in Europe requires many tools. This year, Norway is Chairman of the Baltic Sea Council. As such, I will hold a summit with the Heads of Government of the Baltic Sea countries in Denmark in April. After half a century of division, the Baltic Sea is again a sea that brings together the surrounding countries in cooperation and economic progress. Poland's 38 million inhabitants want to participate in pan-European development and are already our ally in NATO. The Baltic region is moving towards stronger integration in Europe. Russia seeks to find its place and its role. A building contribution to this work is the theme of the Baltic Sea Summit. The work for a peaceful and useful relationship with Russia, the former Soviet Union, is perhaps the most important single element in Norwegian foreign policy history. Compared to the major challenges facing Russian society, the Norwegian contribution will be modest. However, together with other countries, our efforts can still be central to the integration of Russia into European and transatlantic cooperation. As announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Government will review Norwegian Russia policy objectives and instruments. The objective is a more long-term and comprehensive effort. We have a lot of building blocks. Centrally, our cooperation programme for Central and Eastern Europe, various grant and guarantee schemes, Baltic Sea cooperation and Barents cooperation, Nordic cooperation, NATO-Russia partnership and the EU's northern dimension, including Norway. Next month I will visit three African countries, South Africa, Mozambique and Nigeria. In various areas, the important aspects of Norwegian foreign policy are affected. Travel will focus on the development of political contacts, development issues and nutrition promotion activities. Our development work is an integral part of a larger whole. Africa is perhaps the continent that is now facing the greatest problems and challenges of the years to come. A comprehensive foreign policy must take account of this dimension. The Government considers it important to strengthen Norwegian participation in international cooperation. An illustration of the role we can play was the Middle East Summit in Oslo last November. The same motivation lies behind the Government’s efforts to seek a place in the UN Security Council for the period 2001-2002. In particular, we want to monitor the work on human rights, humanitarian issues and international crisis management. Through the OSCE Presidency, we have gained experience that we will be able to follow up in the Security Council. We think we have something to contribute. That's why we're also obliged to deliver. And this is how we do best to promote both the interests of the world community and our own national interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1290	I very often meet prime ministers and foreign ministers from European governments because the Labour Party is involved in social democratic cooperation, and I also had an entire evening with Portugal's Prime Minister before Christmas and met him also a few days ago in Portugal. What I can say is that they are very satisfied that what they perceive as the no-parties, who are now in government in Norway, is the very opposite of what they said in 1994 about the EU. That you see it this way, I think is a great profit for our country. What I wanted to address is something that has been raised here in the debate earlier, namely, developments in Austria, where it seems that the right-wing extreme party of Jörg Haider can enter the government. After all, he's tried to rewrite the story of the exterminations, he's said that the camps of death were not camps of death, but camps of punishment. He has praised Waffen SS and Hitler's economic policy. This has caused concern in several European governments and also in the EU. Here in the Chamber today, Haider has been tried to defend by the representatives of the Progress Party. I am pleased that Johan J. Jakobsen has spoken so clearly on this issue, but I am disappointed that neither the Minister of Foreign Affairs nor the Prime Minister mentioned this question in his speeches. I would like to ask what is the Norwegian Government's position on this. The Government may sit in the OSCE leadership troika if, for example: Hader would become Minister of Foreign Affairs and thus join the OSCE leadership troika? It is necessary to have an opinion on this now, because it is now possible to do so. After that, it could be too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1297	Firstly, I have to take a clear distance from the claim of Jagland, which I understand he may also be trying to confirm to social-democratic colleagues, that what he called the no-parties says is the very opposite of what they said before the 1997 elections. Then I have to ask Jagland to document it in my case, because this was a line for me. I can't see that I'm saying the very opposite today of what I said before the election in 1997. On the contrary. I think I have followed quite well in what I have said about the European Union, about the EU countries, about the EEA. What I say today is good according to what I have said before. So I want to clearly refute such a claim. It should also help Jagland himself if he meets such people in Europe otherwise. For it should be a task for all Norwegian politicians not to contribute to misunderstandings about Norwegian foreign policy, but on the contrary contribute to proper perceptions. So with regard to developments in Austria, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed – and I agree with and underline it – a strong concern about what we are now looking at at at the level of domestic policy. We take crystal clear away from several of the statements made by Haider and his party, whether it concerns previous regimes in Germany and their labour market policies or other issues such as: pursue refugee and asylum policies. That is why we also want the domestic political situation in Austria to be such that this party is not brought into a position of power, either as Minister of Foreign Affairs or in other important positions. Now the internal Austrian process is under way. It could also be a new selection out of it all. I don't think it's wise for us today to say what we're doing in relation to the OSCE if so far in case a particular person would become a foreign minister. At my discretion, it is quite clear that much of what Haider and his party have said is clearly contrary to the basic principles of the OSCE. In this case, we must consider this together with the OSCE's management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1304	Let me first inform Mr. I want him to follow me a little better. We have asked a question and asked for a source statement for claims that have been made regarding what Jörg Haider should have said. We have not defended Jörg Haider and his party at all. We have no contact with that party. We have no interest in going into any defense. We have little interest in Austrian and other countries' domestic policies. But I noticed that the Prime Minister said that human rights and the promotion of democracy were very important elements of Norwegian foreign policy. Then I could imagine asking how the Prime Minister assesses the growing spread of countries governed by the laws of Islamic religion in the Qur'an and by custom, that is, the Sharia laws, which are incompatible with any idea of democracy and what we are talking about as human rights. Is the Prime Minister agreeing that this is one of the decisive battles, among others. in Turkey – whether it is a Western-oriented, democratic country with respect for human rights or whether it should be taken over and governed by the Islamic laws? Does the Prime Minister see any reason for concern that, in many European countries too, due to a very clever immigration policy, there is a trend towards unrest because a large element of immigrants with Islamic religion leads to a less homogeneous population and more conflicts? Is internal uncertainty not something that creates foreign policy stability, either? Does the Prime Minister see any concern here, or does he welcome the emergence of Islamic religion on the European continent as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1311	The struggle for human rights is a priority matter for my government. This is also the background for a comprehensive action plan for further work on human rights, both in Norway and internationally, before Christmas. And there is no doubt that part of the practice and also the implementation of Muslim regulations, not least in view of the Sharia laws, conflicts with fundamental human rights principles. Now it is the point to report that there are also several Muslim countries that are themselves opposed to the Sharia Laws and do not implement or practice them. So here we can't cut everyone over the same comb. There are different practices in what can be called Islamic countries, and there are also different laws. In Turkey in particular, which is an allied country for Norway, there are very strong cultural, ethnic and religious tensions. I see it as an important task for us to be able to draw Turkey as far as possible towards democratic Europe. From that point of view, I also saw a positive view of what the European Union Summit in Helsinki said in the case of Turkey. We are even in a dialogue with Turkey, which also includes human rights issues, and we are stimulating the democratic forces. The government of Turkey now has, I think it is clear that it is on the right track. They work for human rights in this country. With regard to the question of welcoming Islam in Europe, it is clear that as one who stands for a different view of life and another culture, I do not do so in and of itself. But what I'm concerned about is that we should also practice religious freedom and respect for other religions. But those who come to our country must follow Norwegian law. Human rights are universal and apply regardless of religion, and we must demand respect for that, not least in Europe with its strong democratic traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1320	Now the Prime Minister was very general when he spoke of European defence and security cooperation. It is probably pretty clear that the outcome of the Helsinki European Union summit was a disappointment to Norway, and it is clear that it is a disappointment that the problems that were important to us were so little the subject of attention in Helsinki. Then there were completely different issues at the heart of the debate. But it seems like the government's line is that no matter how small you get, it's about doing the same gentleness and then hoping that there'll be something more in the next round. That is why my question is now how the Prime Minister assesses this Helsinki meeting. Are we not now in the process of quickly being able to face a situation in which we can participate, is the practical arrangements for Norwegian participation in peacekeeping forces, while we will be less able to take part in the major, important political decisions that are about to preside over the decisions? Is it not, therefore, that we now in the field by area see that despite a persistent bilateral diplomacy we gradually fall out of what is interesting? I am aware that the Prime Minister was not present at the party leader event he was invited to in advance of the EU summit, but I believe he must have noticed that there are other issues than the Norwegians that are the most central now for EU politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1329	In the case of the party summit in Helsinki to which I was invited, in the Christian Democratic Group, it was actually urgent domestic policy tasks, as far as I remember, which meant that I had to stay back here. But I have good contact with many of the Christian Democratic leaders in Europe, and I have useful dialogues with them also on these issues and highlight Norwegian interests on every occasion where it is natural. When I was so general about the ESDP, it is because at this stage it is not so easy to be so much more concrete, for the Helsinki Summit was not the end station for the development of the arrangements that will be here for allied non-EU countries. It was part of the process. And of course, what one came to in Helsinki is not entirely satisfactory for Norway. But we are now in a process where these arrangements are to be made concrete. It is also in the context that I focus on the conversations I will have in Brussels and Lisbon next week. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and others are also doing a vigorous business to get these arrangements as good as possible, so I think it's too early to try to conclude whether we're getting arrangements that are satisfactory for us or not. So I underline: the Helsinki Summit was no end-point in this process. It was at the height of a station en route. We'll see how this materializes before we evaluate the result. It is clear that, as such, the EU will naturally be more concerned with its own development and also its own problems – because they have a lot of them – than with issues relating to non-EU Member States. However, we have a particular impression that Norwegian interests are being heard and sought within the EU’s needs. I am aware that Jan Petersen will not be satisfied until Norway is a member, and of course I have respect for that. That's what was like an undertone in the post, and it's not surprising. But I believe that with the forms of association we have, we can continue to take good care of Norwegian interests through bilateral arrangements. And we're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1338	When you hear Carl I. Hagen's line to the Prime Minister, the logic seems to be clear: the answer is Muslims, no matter what the question is. So to a more significant problem – and it should be a cross of thought for the Progress Party, just to have said it: the most fundamentalist regime that exists on the globe today, namely the Taliban in Afghanistan, came to power largely because of the power that the Progress Party believes Norway is going to sound in thick and thin, namely the United States. Without the efforts of the United States, there would be no Taliban regime in Afghanistan today. But now leave it. Thorbjørn Jagland raised a significant question with the Prime Minister. I took it up earlier with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I want to go a little further on it. The Prime Minister is just coming home from the Holocaust Conference in Stockholm. He there, according to the newspapers, made a good and committed contribution on the dangers of new holocausts and on the importance of keeping up the memory of the great holocaust of Europe went through World War II. Then there will be a very fundamental question of how to deal with politicians today creating confusion about genocide. And my question to the Prime Minister is essentially why he wants to take the initiative that the world follows the same policy that was followed towards Kurt Waldheim, if Haider were to come to power in Austria, that is. simply to ignore him, not to invite normal diplomatic contact, not to invite to visit, briefly and clearly mark the disgust you feel toward politicians who create ambiguity around the Nazi mass murders. If Haider becomes Chancellor – we hope it does not happen – he becomes Prime Minister Bondevik's counterpart, and the question of visitor exchange, contact, etc. will then come up with full gravity. I believe there is a need to clarify this now in order to give a clear message to Austrian politicians about how the rest of the world will look at a possible chancellorship by Haider.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1347	Let there be no doubt about the very clear attitude of the Government and the distance from large parts of what Haider and his party stand for. I do not hide the fact that I am extremely concerned about the political situation in which Austria, which we have seen as a valuable player in a democratic Europe, is inside. We hope for the longest time that Austria solves its domestic political problems in a way that does not bring Haider and his party into a central power position, rather than that he becomes chancellor. However, if such a situation should arise, there should be no doubt that Norway will make clear indications against such policies as they have announced. But I'm asking for some understanding that I don't think it's wise today to say exactly what ways we're going to react, also because we hope at the longest chance that such a situation doesn't occur, and we have cooperation relations with Austria in a lot of contexts. But if it should arise, there should be no doubt about Norway's attitude, and that we will also find relevant ways of marking it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1354	I have earlier today boasted of the Government because it has done what it thought was right, and not that government party gave the impression that they would do on European issues. We have then seen this in several areas of the excellent distribution that the Minister of Foreign Affairs had for the Grand Duchy, pointing out the importance of cooperation with Europe – as the Prime Minister has highlighted in several speeches, among others. it is often referred to, in Germany – and underlined the importance of our participation in the Schengen cooperation, etc., and now a new agreement with Europol. A lot of this is important, and we're in it. The Prime Minister also stressed that there is a broad consensus in Norway on Europe issues – that is likely. I see, however, that there may be some discussion about it in the government, for example. I thought, at the beginning of December, government council Enoksen went out on the radio, and the line was that the government in some areas had not reached where one would wish one would now, among other things. in EU issues – and it was clearly in a slightly different direction than that, for example. The Prime Minister expressed his view. The Prime Minister stressed the need for and the value of EEA enlargement to the east and the enlargement of the EU, and Mr Enoxen replied that he could not agree with his boss at this point. Now I don't know what weight to put on such statements – maybe you shouldn't put any emphasis on it at all. The Prime Minister will give an assessment of whether we should care about it. But it's a little interesting to know if all the parties in the government are behind the policy that is now being pursued, and that's highlighted here in the distribution, or if that's what Dag Terje Andersen said in an earlier debate here, that just about all the parties are behind, but there are some that are very far behind. Is that how we're going to understand the hold of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1363	Although Haakon Blankenborg now gave a slightly milder expression of the opinion of Mr Igland presented here earlier in the debate, namely that we should now do the very opposite of what we said in 1997, I would also reserve myself against Blankenborg's slightly more nuanced presentation. I think that at least for my part is a good match between what I have said before, and what I claim now. There's no reason to spread any other perception of it. In the case of EU enlargement to the east, this government is underpinning the country’s right of self-determination. Just as Norway has determined our form of association with the EU, so other countries decide their form of association. It's up to you. And the countries that have then decided that they will apply for membership, and of course we respect and base that. And that will extend the EEA territory to the more countries that join the EU. In terms of policy support, it is well known that the Central Party was against the EEA Agreement in its time. But when we negotiated the basis of the Government on the Waxenåsen, it was agreed, also on the basis of the fact that there was a broad majority for that agreement in the Storting, that it should form the basis for the government's policy. This is not an unknown phenomenon in coalition governments. If we had the same position in all cases, there wouldn't have been three different parties. It was essential that we manage to find a common platform, including in this policy, and we are united behind it, when one assumes that the EEA Agreement will be based. In addition to that, we have also had no major problems in finding a common position on Europe's issues. I just mention that we have had one issue in this way, that was the veterinary agreement – an open and real disagreement. In addition to this, this government has found a common position and is, of course, also at the back of the government’s Europe policy — either longer or shorter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-27.ana.ud485e1379	The regulatory time of the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that the meeting now be cancelled, and that the processing of today's map be resumed at the evening meeting. 18 – and considers it adopted.
