ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e27	The representative, Siv Jensen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e30	In order to get a closer legal definition of what is a strike breaker, I allow myself, on behalf of the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen and myself, to promote a proposal to regulate the law of the term ‘strike breaker’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e35	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e56	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Guri IngebrichtsenState Council Siri Bjerke The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e75	I have a question for the Prime Minister about wage fixing, where in the private sector finally a solution was found, and fortunately the strike was cancelled. However, the result is far greater in terms of cost growth for the enterprises particularly exposed to competition than provided for in the adopted State budget. This can mean the loss of jobs, a new spiral of inflation growth, and possibly an increase in interest rates, and there may be further growth in unemployment. Is it still the case that full employment is the main objective of the Labour Party Government, and will the Government now follow a strategy where it does not put new burdens on the jobs and risk unemployment, but on the contrary contributes to lower inflation through tax relief and otherwise facilitates and facilitates the maintenance of full employment and low inflation rather than tackle the problem again that the Labour Party was in the 1980s?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e82	Work for all and full employment is still the main objective of the Workers' Party's economic policy, so it stands firm. That is why we are also very concerned about ensuring a mechanism of economic policy that enables us to secure work for all – not only in the short term but also over time – and that is why we have been a driving force in relation to the economic policy pursued over the 1990s, which we have called the'solidarity option'. Fee reductions alone, without any other measures, do not contribute to lower inflation. A lower price increase can be achieved at the moment when charges are reduced, but if the tax reliefs are not covered in other areas of the budget, either by increasing revenue in some areas or by reducing expenditure in other areas, isolated tax reliefs will lead to increased pressures on the economy, increased demand and subsequently also increased price increases and the risk of increased interest rates. I mean that, and that means many others. However, since the representative Hagen often refers to the governor as an important leader in economic policy, this was also a point made by the governor of the central bank in the year, in which he warned against what he called tax relief without tax evasion, among other things. because it will lead to increased pressures on the economy. So what I have seen is that the Progress Party believes that we should only cut taxes, but not ensure that the budgetary framework is maintained, that is a policy that will lead to an increase in prices and thus to increased problems for Norwegian businesses. The government will strongly warn against that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e91	I noticed the answer, and I totally disagree with it. There is a huge difference between taxes and taxes. Fee reductions directly affect price increases, and we'll get lower inflation if you reduce charges. First of all, we have a risk of cost inflation, not demand-led inflation. These include: Because wage settlements are organised as they are, where there is a relatively small proportion that has a particular wage shift — there are large long-term contracts. I would like to ask: now that the central bank manager controls interest rates based on inflation – not the other things that the prime minister here is talking about – will it also dampen interest rates if we reduce taxes, so that we get lower inflation? The fact that at other times we can strengthen the purchasing power of people most through tax relief instead of new burdens on businesses is also a matter of course that I ask the Government to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e98	How reduced charges affect price rises, and thus interest rates over time, depends on how reduced charges are financed. If they are not financed, but you just go and pick up money in the treasury and pump out more oil money, then reduced charges mean an increased risk of increased interest rates and increased inflation. Not only does it seem to be a reduction in taxes, but in the case of other measures to be taken, the expenditure on the government budget to be cut, or the other revenue you want to increase, have to be identified. The most important thing now to help us keep the cost growth under control and not to increase interest rates is to contribute to accountability in budgetary policy, and that is the Government's objective in the revised national budget, which we are presenting on Friday. When we know that there have been large exceedances in a large number of budget lines, we are concerned that they should be covered by reductions in other areas of the State budget, so that we are, in total, keeping the frameworks of the Bondevik government budget, which was agreed last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e105	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e108	There is no doubt that there is now an opportunity for interest rate increases, and there is considerable pressure on the Government and the Government's contribution. The Prime Minister was not particularly clear on what he thought could be the Government's contribution to keeping interest rates down. My question then is this: can we now be sure that the Government will not come back with tax increases for most people, that they will not come back with increased burdens on business – as we have seen in the press that you might consider in the case of the sickness pay scheme – and can we be sure that the Government will cover by Friday the extra bill the Prime Minister now mentioned, within the budget, so that an expansive budget does not allow us to have an increase in interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e115	We're going to cover the extras, and we're going to cover the unpaid bills within the adopted budget. It is a demanding task because there are large exceedances. So we have to find huge spending cuts in other areas of the budget in order to keep the overall framework. We'll do that, and it'll be on Friday. That's why I think it's wrong to go into other details in the revised national budget, but it's obvious that when you're going to collect billions of dollars in a budget that's adopted, it becomes a demanding operation where a number of individual measures are not popular, but the sum is nevertheless correct because the option is to weaken the budget, thus increasing the risk of interest rate rise and increased price rise. Therefore, the main contribution of the Government to reducing the risk of interest rate rise, price rise and subsequent unemployment is that we keep the balance in the budget. And I am pleased with the impression I have, namely that the Storting agrees that we should keep the balance in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e121	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e124	One can easily get the impression when one listens to debates here in Stortinget, that the Norwegian economy is in bad shape, and that the wage-setting as such has contributed to ills in the Norwegian economy. But nothing can be more wrong. The Norwegian economy is bottom-solid, and most countries will admire the Norwegian economy simply because we have a significant surplus in our government finances. Now it's discussed on many teams whether the payroll will contribute to an interest rate increase. There is, in fact, no basis for this. That is why my question goes to the Prime Minister: we have a governor who has wanted a greater degree of freedom – i.e. decoupling from the Ministry of Finance – and that he should be able to interpret the rule of interest as he himself believes is right. But I would like confirmation that it is still the case that the Ministry of Finance and the Government have the final word in these kinds of questions, that the Governor of the Central Bank is unable to determine when interest rates are going up and when interest rates are going down, that there is a dialogue with the Ministry and Government, and that the final decision to the seventh and last is the responsibility of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e131	I fully agree that there is a great deal that is good in the Norwegian economy, and there are many who are responsible for: the social partners, the Stortinget through a number of budgetary decisions up through the 1990s and several parties. But the fact that there is a lot of good in the Norwegian economy does not mean that we should not look for danger signals, and there are some obvious signs of danger. One of them is that now over several years we have had a cost and wage growth in Norway that has been almost twice as high, or at least significantly higher, than in the countries with which we are dealing. Over time this cannot continue, because it means a gradual decline in Norwegian enterprises, especially in industry and companies exposed to competition. And we are already seeing, after several years of increasing employment in industry, a rather sharp reduction in the number of jobs in industry. And that should worry everyone, especially those who are busy working for everyone. As regards monetary policy, the monetary regulation applies, and within the monetary regulation, the Central Bank has the freedom to determine the level of interest on the basis of which the Central Bank considers it necessary to ensure the guidelines laid down by the Stortinget and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e138	Kjell Magne Bondevik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e141	If we are to succeed in taking care of the good Norwegian economy that we now really have, we are dependent on both a sensible fiscal policy, on which the Prime Minister has been involved, on a monetary and credit policy that works, and also on a income policy. And in this context, as is well known, income policy cooperation was established in a discussion between the then government and the social partners in the autumn of 1998, which took effect for 1999, and which was also to have effect for this year and the years to come. So my question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Government hold fast to what was enshrined in income policy cooperation, among other things. through the suspension of the Arntzen Committee and also through the other elements of the agreed income policy cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e148	Yes, we stick to what was the main message of what is called the Arntzen Committee, and we stick to income policy cooperation. It is important, for example: because it is the model we have chosen in various forms over many years in Norway, where the parties work together to try to keep down the cost growth, which has made it possible for us in Norway to do something very few other countries, namely to have low unemployment, at the lower end of around 3 p.m., combined with a relatively low price and cost growth over many years. The last thing we've been struggling with for the last two to three years. However, the Norwegian model has proved to be significantly better than the models chosen in other countries, because there they experience pressure in the economy, with a leave of 5-6 p.p., while we can combine low unemployment with much lower cost growth. So we're holding on to this, and we want to continue this -- income policy cooperation is still a key element in our economic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e153	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e156	The revised national budget may now become the key to preventing a new rise in interest rates after the settlement of wages and salaries. What will the Prime Minister do to help ensure that the revised national budget does not send the bill to the employees, who have now actually striked to increase wages or to the enterprises through, for example, extended employer period or other things? These companies have just had to take an extra charge through the wage settlement. And isn't it reasonable to demand that we now clean up our own bed by cutting public spending?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e161	Interest rates are determined by many factors. They shall be determined, inter alia: of interest rates in other countries. We have little influence over that. If, for example: interest rates rise in the United States or in Europe, which could affect the Norwegian level of interest rates. It's determined by the oil price, and it's determined by international conditions that we don't have control of. So there are some relationships that we have in control of, for example. Budgetary policy. Budgetary policy cannot guarantee the level of interest that we want, but it can help to increase the likelihood that we will get low interest rates. And the more problems you have in the international economy, the more important it is that we keep track of the factors we control ourselves, such as budgetary policy. And therefore, the main challenge is to ensure a responsible budgetary policy. This means that we are going to propose significant spending cuts in a number of budget areas in the revised national budget to offset the expenditure increases that come under other headings, among others. in order to maintain Norway's presence in Kosovo and in relation to some other exceedances due to the State budget. So spending cuts are coming, but it's to offset expenditure increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e166	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e169	There is also a question for the Prime Minister. When he and the Workers' Party were in opposition, the party accused the central government of lack of governance and progress in relation to the future banking structure and the structure of the financial market. It was urgent, according to the Labour Party, that the government took the initiative so that the structure was not altered while it was being investigated, and the then government was asked to set a time limit for clarification. It was a deadline which, moreover, the current government has missed the longest. After the Workers' Party came into government, we have heard little about this. So my question to the Prime Minister is therefore, when will the clarification come? Has the Government given itself a time limit in this matter, as the previous government was asked to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e175	One problem with regard to the future banking structure is that the Bank Investment Fund, as the Government and the Stortinget asked before Christmas to investigate the future banking structure, has obviously had problems in making a recommendation. The problem then is that when there is no recommendation from the body we have asked to make the recommendation, it has created problems in relation to when a conclusion can be drawn. In addition, we have had a government shift, and it has also contributed to the fact that it has taken some time in relation to the follow-up to banking structure. We haven't set a precise deadline, but our ambition is to get a clarification, not least because we believe that both the political environment and the banks themselves are well served that there will be a clarification, if not too long. The uncertainty that now exists is not a good thing for any of the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e180	I must then note that the Labour Party and Stoltenberg have completely changed their position on this after the party came into office. The main and most of the matters now mentioned by the Prime Minister have not changed since then, but at that time it was very urgent, and it was even possible to set a concrete deadline despite the fact that no decision had been taken at the time by the Bank Investment Fund. But I have an additional question. The current parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Hill-Marta Solberg, has made it clear at least that she believes that a merger of the two largest Norwegian commercial banks, the Norwegian Bank and the Bank of Credit, is not relevant. Is this also the opinion of the Labour Party Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e187	There are no differences or differences in vision between what Hill-Marta Solberg has communicated earlier this winter, and what I mean and the Government believes. What we want is to clarify the entire banking structure, and we still believe that it is an advantage that we get it as quickly as possible, and we are working on it in the Government and in relation to the Bank Investment Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e192	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e195	I also expect that the Workers' Party has not changed its mind on this matter even though they have now come into government. We have also registered that the Workers' Party has clearly said no to a merger between the Kreditkassen and DnB. But an alternative that has come up from some politicians lately is possible slaughter of the credit fund. So now we're talking about slaughtering the bank, one of Norway's most profitable banks, where the state has a significant ownership position, to sort of solve the bunch. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's assessment of the appropriateness of the political environment doing something like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e200	Our future banking structure and what kind of banks we're going to have is an important question, but it's also a sensitive and quite demanding question. I think the process that was set up here in Stortinget is the right process, namely to get a recommendation from the Bank Investment Fund. I think that work just complicates and we create new uncertainties and problems in relation to the processes if I, on behalf of the Government, begin to relate to different alternatives that have been launched, regardless of what would be my personal opinion or the Government's opinion on those alternatives. For then we start proceedings here in the Chamber of various proposals for a new banking structure without having had the tidy procedure with the suspension of the Bank Investment Fund and then a complete proposal. Although I may have opinions about, for example: how the future of the credit fund should be, I refrain from going into it simply because you are going to get the government's assessment when we have a complete proposal to come along from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e207	Selected Response City Haugland – for follow-up questions. The President has some doubts as to whether this matter can be passed on, but then gives this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e210	Thank you, President! I feel that the only thing that's changed in this situation is that we've got a new government. I also look with interest at comments from, among others. The leader of the financial committee, Dag Terje Andersen, who says that the new government must have time to get involved in this matter. Ranveig Frøiland stated on 3 February that in a month's time the government had to finish the case. She was then a bank-political spokeswoman for the Workers' Party. She didn't know what she was talking about, or didn't know the Working Party what was wrong that time? The second question is: Does the Prime Minister think that the previous government did not have to wait for the Bank Investment Fund, while it must currently wait for it? This whole case actually requires statements and actions from the Prime Minister. We have observed that the Prime Minister has been very little in this matter, while others have spoken out. What has changed other than that we have a new government? Didn't they know what they were saying when they said they were very sure about the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e219	As I tried to say in my previous answer, I think it's an advantage for the whole of this case that you don't always express your opinion and feel something about different possible alternatives. I think the advantage is that there is now a proposal. The Prime Minister’s task is not to look in different directions, nor to make representations in different directions or to decide on various proposals launched here in the Chamber, but it is to make a responsible arrangement for the further management of the banking structure. The Prime Minister is working purposefully and conscientiously on this matter, and then you get a proper order of not too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e224	The President assumes that it is most appropriate to proceed with key questions – Per-Christian Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e227	I understand both the President and the Prime Minister that this is a theme the Prime Minister does not want to answer further. Especially after the cruel criticism that was now delivered against the previous behaviour of the Workers' Party this year, we shall leave it to ourselves. On the other hand, I would like to ask a main question relating to the division of tasks in economic policy. If so, the Norwegian Bank has stated in the letter of budget: «Over time, developments in price levels may be affected by monetary policy. Employment can be affected by wage formation. The allocation of resources between the protected sector and the competitive economy may be affected by financial policy.’.» This is a clarification for Norway’s Bank’s view of the division of tasks. Does the Prime Minister agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e240	I agree, at least, that fiscal policy is crucial for the allocation of resources between the protected and competitive sectors – and that is the key message of that quotation – because it is fiscal policy that determines how much labour and how much resources are shielded and the public sector is to seize. I also agree that monetary policy is at least important for price increases, and I agree that income policy is crucial for wage formation. That's the Norwegian model. This does not necessarily mean that I agree with all other assessments made by the Bank of Norway in its budget letters and in the interpretations of that division of labour. Moreover, I can add that the main point is that if one believes that fiscal policy is crucial to the extent of the competitive sector and how many businesses we can have as living by selling goods in competition with the rest of the world, then again the main question is whether we can manage to show accountability in budgetary policy now in the revised national budget. I am very prepared that many of the budget measures and the proposals for reduced expenditure proposed by the Government will be met with criticism. Then my question will immediately be, what are the alternative containment proposals? Because we have to compare the same thing to the same thing. It is easy to argue against cut, it is much more difficult to argue for alternative cut. That means that I will not be impressed by those who reject the Government's proposal until they have submitted alternative containment proposals. Then we have a fairer comparison of different options.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e249	I hope I get the same time for my answer – or my comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e254	It's 1 minute, sir. Mr Foss, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e257	Yes, it's long minutes, President. My comment is just linked to two things. I have not asked for a view on other aspects of the Norwegian Bank's budget letter, but on this quote. What the Prime Minister now says, underlines that employment is affected by wage formation. Wages and salaries have now developed much more strongly than the government thought was sound. This means that we are at risk of increased leave. My question is then: What is the Prime Minister's strategy in addition to the protests about work for all – which I agree with, but it doesn't hold – what is the strategy to limit the possible development of increased unemployment now that we've got a higher wage formation than our competitors and a higher wage formation than the Government itself thought was responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e264	The answer to that question is that the whole of our economic policy has it as its primary objective, so it's all about the elements. I can mention someone: one element is, of course, continuing income policy cooperation. An action whereby the Government follows up the reform of continuing education with legislative proposals, including draft appropriations in the revised national budget, in relation to a new chance of higher education. Another element is, of course, the provision of financial policy. We have talked a lot about that today, but it is absolutely vital to ensure work for everyone. A third element is improving the functioning of the economy – what is called structural policy in the Right. There is a wide range of measures, both in relation to a more sensible tax system, in relation to the organisation of some of the state enterprises and – I would say – a renewed and better driven public sector. All these are measures that will help to strengthen the Norwegian economy over time, thus also ensuring employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e269	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e272	The Prime Minister now spoke about and, as far as I understood, agreed that wage formation is very important for employment. It is clear that if companies get higher costs than competitors in other countries, they risk going bankrupt and jobs are lost. In this context, will the Prime Minister also consider getting an investigation or looking at the wage formation system? We have now experienced a giant thrill that was partly about the entire private sector. It might now be time for a much greater degree of decentralised wage formation to be assessed in Norway by individual associations and employers or by individual enterprises, so as to ensure that the profitability of enterprises and market opportunities are consistent with the outcome of wage settlement. Will the Prime Minister take an initiative to investigate a system of decentralised wage settlement, of course in cooperation with the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e281	First of all, only a brief consideration has been given to the preparation of income and the preparation of wages — and this has gone beyond the framework. But it's still true that there's been a significantly more moderate settlement than what we could have risked if we had had a completely different system of wage formation, for example. how you feel in a lot of other countries. Wage growth in Norway is on the decline. In 1998, it was almost 6 pst., now it's 4.6 pst., which is roughly estimated after settlement, and next year it'll come down to 4.2 pst. So we're going down in wage growth despite low unemployment and high temperature in the Norwegian economy. As far as investigations are concerned, we have the Holden Committee which is now to assess the status of the entire income policy, solidarity option and income policy cooperation. Although I have not read all the draft chapters of the Holden Committee’s position, I take it for granted that they will also pay great attention to assessing different systems of wage formation, more decentralised systems of wage formation, centralised and income policy cooperation and looking at experiences from Norway and other countries. So I think the representative Hagen's need for investigations is well taken care of with the investigations already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e290	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e293	Since the budget last autumn, the temperature of the Norwegian economy has increased. We've got pay supplements that are higher than what we added. We also see that retail sales are increasing rapidly, and housing prices are rising. The reason Norway’s Bank has set up the interest rate is that things are going very well in the Norwegian economy. The possibility of keeping a stable interest rate, of course, that interest rates should not increase further, is to be delivered in terms of financial policy. When things change along the way, you should tighten to more and not just keep the frame from last autumn. What plans does the Prime Minister now have to adjust the fiscal stance in relation to developments in the Norwegian economy? And at the same time, if the Prime Minister is concerned about maintaining a strong private sector, how to do so without affecting the jobs through, for example, imposing even greater burdens on Norwegian holdings?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e300	A challenge in fiscal policy, and especially if you want to use budgetary policy to balance the fluctuations in the economy, as we do in Norway, is that the cyclical picture, the forecasts, of how the economy develops, changes from month to month, at least from quarter to quarter. At the same time, the State budget is about expenditure on health, school and for many important welfare purposes. And I think everyone understands that you can't turn these expenses up and down as you get a little bit of changed business cycle reports from different institutions and institutions throughout the year. Therefore, fiscal policy is a bit of a rough instrument, and therefore we do not have ambitions about what can be called ‘fine adjustment’ of fiscal policy in relation to a changed economic outlook. But what we have ambitions about is that once we have adopted a budget that should at least not contribute to raising the temperature of the Norwegian economy – we decided last year – we will be able to continue it throughout the year despite large expenditure increases in many items.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e309	I want to ask my question to the Minister for the Environment. Last Friday, the Ministry of the Environment issued a press release stating in the first sentence: «The government has today defined the area where the wolf will establish couples and family groups.» It is an alarming formulation based on the fact that the Government actually did the opposite, to allow wolves in new areas of the country. It concerns East Agder, Telemark, Vestfold, Østfold, Oslo, parts of Buskerud, Akershus and Hedmark. I assume that the Council of State confirms that the press release gave a wrong impression. The impression was also made that the contact area between sheep and wolf was bounded on the outside. In some areas – yes. Does the Council not fear that the Government Decision may increase rather than mitigate conflicts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e320	The press release to which the representative Dale referred, which was presented last Friday, was part of the government's follow-up to predatory policy. What we do in this round is follow up the decision of the Storting relating to predatory management, and until now it is mainly areas of Sami domestic reindeer that have been excluded from areas where there has been access to the establishment of wolves. This follow-up has been carried out as a result of the now apparent increase in stocks and the need for delimitation of areas where there is a chance to establish wolves has been present. This demarcation must be seen in the context of another proposal submitted by the Government to the Grand Duchy just before Easter, namely the proposals for changes to the wild law, which will make it easier to obtain permission to trap wolves outside these areas which are now proposed as areas where the wolf will establish itself in pairs and families, but also in those areas where the wolf is harming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e327	I want to hold on to the fact that this isn't about delimiting the area of the wolf, but about letting the wolf into new areas of the country. The government is now putting in place a probationary system for the upcoming grazing season, and the case will then be sent out to the audience, as the council was in, and people in the districts will be invited to participate in a final adjustment of the plan for the fall. But it happens in a situation where the ministry has basically put the main pattern in place. And there's every reason to rush over such a scheme, because all realistic solutions to such issues as this need to be based on cooperation and dialogue with the community. But the procedure chosen here may well lock the situation, and I would therefore ask the Council of State: will such a drastic extension of the wolf area really be realised without a comprehensive dialogue with the communities concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e334	A comprehensive dialogue is clearly necessary. Therefore, the Government attaches great importance to dialogue with all interested parties in this matter. Today, among other things, to Eastfold, following this questionnaire, to talk to interested parties. I've been to Hedmark, and it's obvious that we need a dialogue. However, my proposals here are based on the majority of the Storting House, who have, of course, considered the principles of predatory policy to be firm. But there will be a need for a practical follow-up to this policy, and therefore we are promoting proposals for delimitation and proposals to make it easier to tax wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e341	Lonely wolves are the exception! There will be follow-up questions – Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e346	Wolf researcher Wabakken assumes that this year it is approx. 20 wolves on the Norwegian side from Østfold to Rendalen in Hedmark. Let's put in 20 million. Public funds to prevent wolf attacks on domestic animals only in Great Elvdal and Rendalen, and this does not seem to be enough. The world guru in wolf research, David Mech, says that wolf is no endangered species. The world population consists of hundreds of thousands of animals. He also warns against believing that the wolf does not attack people, and especially children. The same Mech has previously confirmed that it was the wolf that killed 92 children in India between 1989 and 1995. In Norwegian reports we can also read about how the wolf has attacked and killed children, among others. in the Kiorov district of Russia and Turku, Finland. In the opinion of the Council of State, it is appropriate to allow District Norway to become a loser in order for the wolf to be freed, in order to create a negative quality of life for those living there, for example. in Hedmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e355	In the follow-up to Norwegian predator policy, we are constantly gaining new knowledge about predators, and especially wolves. The college in Hedmark contributes greatly to this, so that we now know where the wolf is, how it moves and very much about how it behaves. Information related to the management of wolves will be a very important part of future predatory policies. In that way, I think we should achieve a predatory policy that will not conflict with the interests of an industry and the population in the areas where predators are located. Norwegian predatory policy is also based on a follow-up to international agreements, and Norway has a clear responsibility in this way, as the majority of the population has confirmed on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e364	Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e367	The government's proposal for an extended area has an important role to play, both on the grounds that the Storting has assumed that the conflicts will be mitigated in this area and on the basis of the procedure selected. First, a suggestion is made, and then you set up a trial plan, and then you let something go out on the phone. I'd like to draw attention to the area of Setesdal Vesthei, where there are between 10,000 and 15,000 sheep from Rogaland and Agder County that graze. Would it not be a far better starting point for the dialogue that the Minister for the Environment would like, if she had first sent out his proposal, then invited to the hearing and dialogue, and then to take the decision, instead of doing so now, in reverse order?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e374	It has been very important to put this in place now because it will affect the grazing season of the year. Together with the proposals for changes to the wildlife law, we can then have a flexible predatory policy, a flexible management of the wolf population, as the Stortinget wanted. Of course, we follow up the dialogue along the way all the time. This proposal is now to be finalised at a three-month hearing, and the Stortinge will be given the necessary information on this in the light of the consultation and the final definition of the demarcation area for predators and wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e382	Steinar Bastesen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e385	I have a question about the wolf debate. It was found by genetic testing that we had a wolf flock of hybrids. The Ministry of the Environment decided that these should be killed – we should not have hybrids in our fauna. Now the Minister for the Environment says we should delimit the area, and we should make it easier to shoot wolves. How's it going with the killing of the four wolves? Have they been killed? And what confidence can Norwegian farmers and sheep farmers around the districts have in the Ministry of the Environment and in the administration? As far as I know, the four kids haven't been killed yet. [[Laughter]] How's that going?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e392	The President hopes for an answer! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e395	It is true that genetic testing showed that there were hybrids that were in the nature of Eastfold, and we wanted to grant breeding permits for them because it is not desirable that such mixed animals are in nature. Some of these are so far out. Genetic testing has otherwise shown that the problem of hybrids is not present on a large scale, it is a real wolf tribe we have in Norway. This is a question that we have to follow up, but several of the hybrids for which the killing permit was granted have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e402	But not all? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e407	The President inculcates that follow-up questions include one round and not attempts at further harmonisation, Mr President. Bastese. [[Laughter]] Next to follow-up questions is Grethe Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e412	It is clear that the consequences of predatory policies, a wild predatory policy, are poor. What we see in the districts is that people move, people give up on sheep, for example, people don't dare to use the forest anymore as they've done before, and the game disappears. All these things have to be considered when reintroducing wolves into an area, for example. This area is quite limited, and many questions can be asked about how to limit the behaviour of the wolf. It is quite willful, after what I have experienced, so preventing it from entering the North Odal will be a problem that the Minister for the Environment has probably thought about. But my question is what the press release says, namely that there should be different measures to reduce and prevent losses and conflicts. These conflicts not only apply to sheep keepers, they also apply in relation to the use of nature and how the game is to be protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e419	I would like to remind you once again that Norway has a national responsibility to have a viable wolf tribe. It seems that we are in the process of achieving the goal set by the Stortinget of eight to ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. That is why the policy we are now putting forward for administration will mean, in practice, the removal of wolves after the season of the year. I also put great emphasis on fear and on getting a good level of knowledge about what it means to live with wolves in different areas. So far, we have had very good cooperation with large parts of the sheep industry, we have a number of projects in schools and so on. with regard to information, and we also have good contact with other environments, such as the hunters' environment involved in hunting, among others. elk.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e426	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e429	I do not intend to propose any killings, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question after the wage settlement and the vote result. There is no doubt that the responses to the development of increased differences in Norway are part of the basis for the outcome of wage settlement in the private sector. Nor is there any doubt that differences in Norway have increased throughout the 1990s. And there is no doubt that the increase in the differences is primarily due to the fact that the income from capital is very unevenly distributed, and that in addition we have a tax system that does not pay taxes on the dividends on the beneficiary's hand, the logic is that it has paid the company. So that means that a millionaire or multimillionaire on a dividend can pay less tax than a maid who now has 2 dollars plus a little bit more per hour. What will the Government do to change the unfair tax system that has led to increased disparities throughout the 1990s?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e438	First of all, the communication of differences and a lot of other research and work shows that there is one main source of inequality, and it is linked to the labour market. Increasing unemployment is the main cause of increasing disparities in societies experiencing increased disparities. This means that the most important measure to avoid increased disparities and to create fair distribution is to ensure that we do not get new high unemployment rates in Norway, which is the most important measure we have in terms of ensuring fair distribution. In the case of taxes, we have, on the part of the Workers' Party, made a number of earlier proposals to close gaps in the tax system. We have not received a majority for these proposals during this large-scale period, except that we have had some support in the case of stock debates and also in the case of shipowners' taxes and sharing model, but much has been downgraded. These are proposals we believe could easily have been implemented in order to help reduce the differences, but for which we have only received some majority. Moreover, I think it is very important to bear in mind that all experience suggests that having very high tax rates, but in return for a lot of exemptions, exemptions and deductions, leads to a much greater difference and a more unfair tax than today's system of relatively low rates, but get exemptions and exemptions. Before, we had 50 pst. taxes on so-called capital and profits, and we had dividends tax. At that time, the richest people in Norway paid a significantly less part of their income in taxes than they do today with 28 pst. So the tax reform we carried out in 1992, where we reduced the formal tax rate to 28 p.m., actually means that those with large capital incomes, the richest in Norway, are paying a larger share of their income in taxes today than they did before. So 28 pst. In fact, tax on the rich means more because exemptions, exemptions and gaps in the tax system are removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e448	Norwegian capital taxation is not high in the international context. There's a lot to go on, we're low among OECD countries. There are many myths out there and go about the Norwegian tax level, but it's not very high, and it's especially lucrative about capital income. A lot of the adjustments that people who have the money to buy expensive lawyers are doing, are about placing their income as capital income and not employee income, because the differences in taxation are so big. In 1998, approximately 53 billion kroner were collected in dividends from Norwegian companies. Half of it went to private Norwegian shareholders, and it is distributed so that the 10 pst. The richest gets 90 pst. of all dividends distributed. That's the most important explanation that the differences are increasing at the top. It is clear that unemployment will lead to exclusion and more poor people and that more people are struggling with their private economy, but the real driving force behind Difference Norway is due to this. Now the government has an opportunity to challenge the center parties, they've submitted a dithering message, and many of them burn so that the differences won't increase. Why not show some "goods" and click some suggestions on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e455	We're concerned about not running a purely symbolic policy. We leave that to others. We're committed to getting a majority of a policy that we think is going in the right direction. That is why we are not proposing just to show ‘goods’, we are making proposals if we think it can contribute to small steps in the right direction. During this ageing period, we have received a majority for some improvements both in the taxation of the large equity assets and in the ability to convert income from employee income/personnel income into capital income and thus receive lower taxes. With regard to the issue of Norwegian capital being taxed high or low, it depends on how to set up the comparisons. 28 pst. is the same rate as in Sweden and Finland and some other countries, but in Norway we have a wealth tax on capital. They do so to a small extent, at least not to the same extent, in other countries, so whether Norwegian capital is taxed high or low is therefore entirely dependent on whether or not to include taxes on wealth. What I'm concerned about is ensuring equal treatment of different types of capital. It shouldn't be that you pay more taxes if you put the money in a business than if you put the money in the bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e464	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e467	It's not going to get away from the fact that an increasing proportion of the population is taking out part of their income through the return on capital. This will increase in the future, and if we are to be able to pursue a solidarity wage policy in the future as well, as the Question Time has so far been concerned, we will depend on the development of a tax system that is perceived to be fair to people. It will not be possible to accept a development in which those who have their income exclusively from employee income will show solidarity, while those who have an increasing proportion of the income from capital income will have a strong growth in their income, and a much stronger growth than those who only have income. I'm not going to point to any solutions, but my question to the Prime Minister is: Will the Prime Minister help follow up what the central government started, namely to bring about a balancing of taxes on capital and taxes on work to counteract this kind of growing difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e474	We should work all the time to get a fairer tax system. We have some suggestions that we have been following for a long time, and we are constantly working to make improvements, including: on the basis of the investigations and work carried out by the central government, e.g.: in the context of the flat tax investigation. We're not trailers of flat tax, but there's a lot of material there that's useful for the further work compared to tax. But tax is a complicated matter, which you don't just sneak in in in the middle of the year; you have to have reworked proposals before you present them. And so the proposals that have been worked through, we have not received a majority in the past. But it's important to be clear that we have to act neatly in relation to the fact that this is also about corporate taxes. A few years ago, we were all concerned that there was too little equity in the companies, and then we have to avoid getting into the situation that if you put the money in the bank, you get 28 pst. tax, and if you put the money in a company, you get a higher tax rate. At least there is a poor industrial policy — it can contribute to increased unemployment, so we need to have equal treatment for different types of capital. It's a very demanding and important principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e479	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e482	There is a lot of truth in what the Prime Minister is now saying. It's probably not a goal that taxes should be high, but what's a goal is that taxes should be perceived fairly. A message that the wage-setting has now given is that the differences have become so large that people have reacted, and thus the first proposal for a private-sector collective bargaining agreement has also been voted down. One reason for what the representative, Mr Halvorsen, was in the Chamber, is probably among other things. taxes on capital are significantly lower than taxes on labour. Another thing that also provokes is the proposal for option taxation. Options, which have become more and more common in business, are a form of incentive and reward that is said to be used especially in enterprises that do not have the ability to attract good employees. This proposal has come at the most unfavourable time one can imagine, because it involves a tax relief which in itself will contribute to the continued increase of the spiral of differences. And my question to the Prime Minister is as follows: Will he agree to clarify the consequences and look at the effect of such a proposal, before it may be adopted in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e491	Now, for the first time, the change in option tax has already been adopted by the Storting. Secondly, there's a smaller adjustment. The tax rates for option taxation shall be exactly the same now as before. The difference is the time at which the tax is levied. When the contract is concluded, it is not known to what extent there is any gain associated with the option, then the tax is calculated on estimated future earnings. This means that the actual gain at the option may be both greater and less than the estimated gain at the time of conclusion of the contract. What the government is now proposing is that we take the tax when the options are used, that is, when you acquire the shares, because then you know how much the gain has been, and then we're taxing the entire gain at exactly the same rates as what are the rules today, that is. 55 pst. income tax plus up to 26 pst. an employer’s fee in Zone 1. In some cases it could mean increased tax on options compared to today's system, so it's not a tax change I have any problems defending.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e499	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e502	I would like to stay with the Prime Minister and payroll, which I think it is important to stop, and since no one else has expressed it, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the opposition that the strike was concluded at a time before we had irreparable damage to the credibility of the Norwegian economy in the export markets. And since the Prime Minister has considerable height of fall and responsibility in such a context, I'm sure he shares that satisfaction. But I don't think there's any reason to de-dramatize the costs and consequences of what now seems to be the result, because it significantly blows up the Arntzen Committee's framework. I think it's important to find out what is the key and the new cloud of this Arntzen committee, because it brought with it more organisations and is responsible for more organisations in terms of a comprehensive and responsible framework. It was not least LO and NHO busy. Now that we're testing this consensus, we're seeing that the LO just broke this consensus, it's a very dangerous signal to the other organizations before the payroll starts. Does not the Prime Minister share this concern that this is dramatic?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e511	I think it's important to be careful with the words. I've said in the past that you should not overdramatize the effect. That's not exactly the same thing as dedramatizing. It is serious that over several years we have had a wage increase that has been significantly higher than in the countries with which we are dealing. As late as 1997-1998, the wage growth was almost 6 pst., the double of what our competitors had. What I'm happy about is that, despite the fact that the framework of the Arntzen Committee is broken, which I think is unfortunate, we have a settlement that points towards lower wage growth in Norway. We've got it down from the high level of up to 6 pst. from 1998 to 4,5 pst. – 4.6 pst. Now. And with the agreements that have been concluded, and with the assumed glide, we'll be down to 4.1 pst. – 4.2 pst. until next year. It's still too high, and it's going too slowly, but it's going in the right direction. I think it's serious what's happening now. Because what we're seeing now is that, in the first half of the 1990s, we had a very large increase in Norwegian competitive industry with a lot of new start-ups and a very good growth, and now we've seen a pretty strong decline in employment in industry, not least in the last few years. So the development there is going in the wrong direction. It is clear that it will be even more demanding to turn around when it takes a little longer to bring costs growth in Norway down to the level of our trading partners. This is serious, and we should contribute together to doing something about it, not least through budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e523	I can share much of what the Prime Minister is now expressing. I think he too must extend the industrial concepts to the Statistical Central Bureau. Then he will see that we have many new industrial and economic areas growing. Today we see that, for example. the lack of 12,000 new IT workers per year. years. We need a will for change in the Norwegian economy, which is necessary. But the point of income policy cooperation is that because we're getting new groups into the world of work, it's important to include more than the traditional groups within the LO. That's why the Arntzen Committee was so important, and therefore it's important that the Prime Minister be active and contribute quickly, like the previous government, and get back income policy cooperation, so that all groups, including those that are traditionally close to the Workers' Party, are involved in a responsible arrangement. What's dramatic about today's situation is that it's the LO that is sending signals to the other organizations that they've set up within responsible frameworks for once, and that the LO is the first to break out. Here it's important quickly, when the year's paycheck is over, to come back to a collaboration that includes everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e528	We are engaged in broad cooperation with different organisations also on the labour market, because we realize that it can provide a better and wider anchoring of income policy cooperation. We were pleased that there was such broad support for the Arntzen Committee, which provided the framework for the further development of income. We're sorry you couldn't keep those frames in the year's settlement. But I'm glad when you first had to go beyond the limits, that the crack didn't get bigger than it was. I'm also glad that the arrow is pointing in the right direction, because you have a two-year contract period, and because this year the supplements are also set for the next year, you can see that you get a further reduction in your salary growth next year. But 4.2 pst. is still clear about what is assumed to be the wage growth of our neighbours and the ones we are dealing with, and it is serious. How serious it is, depends on how it goes with other elements of the Norwegian economy, on the one hand, we control elements ourselves, such as budgetary policy, and, on the other, things we do not control ourselves, such as oil and international market conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e535	Let's move on to the next – and last – main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e538	My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. The parental plan has now been in implementation for two years, with the paradoxical result that there have been fewer sick homes in municipalities. Never before have I received so many enquiries from the despondent relatives who are not allowed to enter their severely needy nursing home. Even though one is 80, 90, or almost 100 years old, is partially blind, has an advanced Alzheimer's and lives alone, one today in many municipalities is not qualified for hospitalization in nursing homes. Is our new social minister familiar with such conditions in many municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e545	The initiative in the care of the elderly is within its third year. We are now working to deliver a message to the Stortinge on how the first two years have gone. We see that the rate of expansion has been very good, but there have been more nursing homes than there have been health homes. That's right. What we also see is that very many municipalities have come out of it well. Whether a nursing home works well or not depends on what kind of home care and home care for the rest of the municipality. We also see that the nursing homes have changed in character, that they have specialised in some fields to a much greater extent than before. So they have special wards for senile dementia, they have special wards for dying patients, they have general wards, and they have rehabilitation wards. All of this has meant that more than one person is also able to live longer outside the nursing home. I am also happy to see that it seems that the health status of people over 80 years of age has become somewhat better than what we had reason to fear, so that age as a criterion for getting a place in a nursing home I hope I will never be up to date again. But when the representative Alvheim points out that people with a significant disease also do not have a place in a nursing home, I think it's worrying, and we'll look into it and come back to it in the message we're presenting to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e556	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is good to make progress in the daily care and care of our nursing homes. But those who are in a nursing home, I'm not very worried about. These are the people on the outside of the hospital, the matter in this case is about. I find it totally unacceptable that a severely nursing person should be placed in a nursing home without a regular 24-hour shift. This is to place a person qualified for hospitalization without supervision and care. My follow-up question is about this: Who is it that checks today that the Husbank's demand for luck's follow-up with care and care to provide loan commitments for the construction of nursing homes is followed up in the municipalities? I have a certain impression that this is by no means followed up in a very large number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e563	Follow-up responsibility has been assigned to the county council in cooperation with the county board. The supervisory role has been strengthened during the period of the ageing plan. They follow up the nursing home period, but also ensure that the plans that the municipality itself makes are followed up in the way that has been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e568	The time for the oral Question Time is now over, and we go over to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e573	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Siri Frost Sterri to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Jørn L. Stang to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative, Dag Danielsen, to the Minister for Culture, has been transferred to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research to direct him. However, the question will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been away. At the request of the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, this question is moved and answered before question 24, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 14, from the representative of Mr Ludvigsen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him. Questions 18, 19 and 20, from the representatives of Brother Yngve Rahm, Lisbet Rughvedt and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed. Question 21, from the representative Vidar Kleppe to the Minister for Agriculture, will be preserved by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Questions 26 and 29, from the representatives of Shahbaz Tariq and John Dale respectively to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research, who has been removed. Questions 27 and 28, from the representative Inge Wohnung to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, are absent, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e606	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e620	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e626	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘In 1990 there was more than 50 pst. of all trucks loaded which crossed the border, Norwegian. In 1999, the corresponding proportion was 45 pst. Does the Council of State see a link between this negative development and the Norwegian charging system, and especially in this case with fuel prices, and what will the Council of State do in that case to help reverse this trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e635	Statistical central agency statistics on goods transport across borders show that the proportion of Norwegian registered lorries was 50,5 pst. in 1990. This figure is an average of cars that were registered. In 1998, the proportion of Norwegian lorries was 45.9 pst. In 1999, the proportion was 45.3 p.p., while the statistics for the first quarter of 2000 are 45.6 p.p. Norwegian cars. Thus, the statistics for the last few years do not seem to indicate any marked decline in the proportion of Norwegian lorries in cross-border traffic. Although the proportion of Norwegian lorries in cross-border traffic has fallen slightly, the number has increased by about 17 pst. from 1990 to 1999. In the same period, there has been a stronger growth in imports and exports of goods and services and in the total number of trucks crossing the border. The loss of market shares in individual areas is not abnormal in a situation of increased international trade and competition. The Government will consider the issue of the financial framework conditions for the truck industry in the context of the revised national budget for 2000, which will be submitted on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e644	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In order to clarify this question, does the Council of State see that a difference in the diesel price of NOK 2.50 to NOK 3.50 on the Swedish and Finnish sides of the Norwegian side will create different working conditions for the truck industry, and that Norwegian lorry industry will thus lose out in tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e651	There are rules that determine how much diesel can be brought across the border – there is a limit of 200 litres per. truck. In addition to that, the trucks transporting within Norway must relate to Norwegian fuel prices and fuel charges, and there should in principle not be any distortion of competition between transport within the same geographical area. So you can raise the question as to whether the introduction of diesel goes beyond the 200 liters that are allowed. This means that there is a need for control. This control effort has been intensified. In the revised national budget, the government will assess different aspects of the competitive situation of truck industry. In this context, we will consider the issue of the diesel tax, and we will consider issues related to the legal quantity of diesel introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e658	I thank the Council once again for the answer. In its taxes – i.e. the Council of State – does the Council also consider the number of jobs, when we now consider truck drivers in this case, but also the ring-effects to service companies such as car workshops, petrol stations, car sellers and many more that will be affected? Is he also thinking about the tax and tax credits that will disappear by depleting the truck industry? Will he also have in mind self-sufficiency in transport services in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e665	So now, as I said in my previous answer, given that you ignore the 200-litre limit that's allowed to be introduced, foreign-registered trucks and domestic-registered trucks have to be related to the same level of charges when they compete in Norway. This means that there is in principle no distortion of competition between Norwegian and other lorries in transport in Norway in addition to the 200 litres permitted to be introduced. So, as I said, the question is, is there enough control to tell you if there's an actual input that goes beyond the 200 liters? This is among the questions that we will come back to. Of course, the overall assessment will also include issues of both employment and activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e675	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘More locations, among others at Stord, are planning to establish a common kitchen for the hospital, municipal institutions and municipal home-based care. The Tax Directorate states that the supply of food to home care is subject to VAT, although this is part of the municipal care service. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend this legislation, so that no charge is an obstacle to the establishment of rational and effective solutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e684	In the question from the representative Sørfonn, reference is made to an opinion from the Tax Directorate on the charging conditions for food for home-based care. I do not know the background to this statement. It is therefore not natural for me to comment on this specific matter. However, I would like to say something about the general legislation in this area. The general rule is that VAT is payable on all sales of goods. However, the turnover of services is subject to taxation only if the service in question is mentioned in the Act. Furthermore, a general condition for charging is that turnover is carried out in industry. Public institutions that trade goods and services are taxable even if they cannot be considered to be engaged in business. The background of this rule is, for example, consideration of neutrality of the charging system and neutrality of competition vis-à-vis the private sector. Social services are not covered by the obligation to pay. However, pure supplies of goods are subject to excise duty if they are placed on the market. This means that the goods are delivered for consideration. The existence of turnover has to be specifically assessed on a case-by-case basis. I also find it necessary to clarify that an establishment which is liable for a charge will be entitled to a deduction from the in-depth levy on acquisitions for use in the establishment. In the case of chargeable food supplies traded at an approximate self-cost by municipal enterprises, the tax that the municipality has to calculate on food supplies will in many cases be offset by the right to deduct the goods acquired. This implies that the price to be paid by the recipient of the food supply will often be the same regardless of the local authority’s charging obligation. The government is working to change the VAT system so that goods and services are, in principle, treated equally. A derogation for social services has been proposed in the 1990 study by the Storvik Committee on the universal VAT obligation on the movement of services. The definition of an exemption for social services will be assessed in the context of the forthcoming VAT reform. The question of the obligation to charge food for home-based care will be addressed in the assessments that will be made in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e702	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to admit that I was only partially satisfied with it. The general rules for value added tax are good, and the definition of ‘reimbursement’ is also good, and when the Council of State says that there will be no specific increase in costs due to the possibility of deducting from an inward value added tax, it is far from correct, but one of the problems is the bureaucracy in this. If you have services where something is subject to VAT and something is free of VAT, it takes a rather intensive administrative extra effort to do so, and the bureaucracy itself may be hampered by effective solutions. I notice that the Council of State will evaluate this in particular with the freedom of VAT for social services, and I hope that through it there are possibilities so that this can be done in a good and safe way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e709	The size has been subject on several occasions to the competitive relationship between public and private production in relation to the VAT rules. Of course, the views of the Stortinge have been expressed in these kinds of assessments. At the same time, as I referred to in my first answer, we are now going to have a broad review of the VAT, and then we will also assess the type of issues that the representative is dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e714	I interpret the entire way the statements from the government council positively, and that this is the will to do something. What was specifically mentioned was the competitive relationship between the public and private sectors. I don't think it's going to bother the council so much here. I would rather focus my search on one of the flagships that this government has also lifted, i.e. improving efficiency and renewing the public sector. And here, there must be an excellent way to accommodate a local hospital, which is close to the municipal institutions, where they can have a common kitchen where they can also take care of those who are part of the municipal home-based care service. It is clear that there is a high potential for rationalisation and efficiency in this. I have from the Council of State's response expectations that this will find a good solution when things get on the table, so that the kitchen can be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e719	Question 5 will be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e725	I have this question for the Minister of Culture: «The order of decorating materials for municipal and county cultural buildings was almost halved in 1999. A majority of the Culture Committee prayed at the beginning of the Budget. S. No 2 that the scheme will be stepped up again. [[1999 - 2000]] The funds have mostly been devoted to decorating schools, thus helping children and young people to meet art in everyday life. The system has also given artists assignments where they live, so it is a contribution to allowing artists to live in the district. Will the Council of State take the initiative to step up the scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e734	The appropriation for the decoration of public buildings is capped. 322 Artwork, craftsmanship and design, entry 50 Decoration of public buildings. This also applies in addition to municipal and municipal buildings, to state buildings and to the purchasing system for the decoration of residential buildings and older state buildings. With effect from the 1998 budget year, the arrangements for the decoration of State-owned buildings were amended so as to incorporate decorative materials into the cost framework of each construction project. This explains mainly the large reduction in the provision of the item from the 1998 level. With regard to the allocation for the decoration of municipal and municipal buildings, it was reduced by 2 million in the previous government's draft budget for the 1999 budget. due to tight budgetary arrangements. The size joined this. But I have noticed that a majority of the committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, the Right and the Left Party, of the Budget-Inst. S. No 2 for 1999-2000 wanted the scheme to be stepped up. I would like to point out that the commitment mandate for this item has increased from up to 6.3 million. SEK in 1999 to up to SEK 8.1 million. NOK 2000 The increase in the mandate also means that the Ornamental Fund for Public Construction has been given the opportunity to increase the activity of embellishment of municipal and municipal buildings. The scheme is of great importance for the dissemination of art to a large number of people, including children and young people. Important areas of activity in recent years have been school construction, but also cultural buildings, municipal buildings, town halls and construction in the health and social sectors. The country’s regional artists’ centres are an active party in the realisation of the decoration projects. That is why I regard this decoration scheme as an important artistic policy instrument. Taking these factors into account, it is natural that the extent of the allocation to the scheme for the decoration of municipal and municipal buildings is assessed in the 2001 budget line, but this is a budgetary issue that I cannot, of course, express any commitment at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e745	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that the Minister of Culture also shares the view that this is an incredibly important cultural policy instrument, even if it is relatively small sums. The committee received a lot of concerns last year when the scheme was halved, and there were many who feared that this would go beyond the decoration of municipal and county buildings. Now it's like the Council of State refers to an increase in the supervisory authority, and it's positive, but it's also that a supervisory authority leads to borrowing from next year's government budget. There are many effects of such a system, and one is that children and young people get to experience art in everyday life. We tell you that children and young people are worth so much, you are worth so much that we want you to have real art in everyday life. The second is that there is a system that leads to artists being commissioned. Does the Council of State see the importance of maintaining schemes that give artists missions around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e754	I share with the representative Valle's emphasis on the importance of getting art into the spaces where people live in everyday life, and not least to children and young people. In addition, Norwegian visual artists have limited opportunities to get their work done, and the market is relatively small. A public space decoration mission is therefore an important artistic policy instrument. In addition, the decorating of public spaces facilitates the experience of wide groups of the population in everyday life. As a result, the size of the state-enrichment appropriations is an important art policy instrument. It is therefore an important task in the long term to facilitate the making available of this art, but I am asking for understanding that I cannot make concrete promises regarding the 2001 budget, here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e759	It is clear that I fully understand that the Council of State cannot promise gold and green forests here and now, but it is also such that the government appropriations mean a great deal also for municipal and county municipal appropriations. They're triggering a lot of millions of municipal and county appropriations. The fact that the state maintains such a size of the decoration scheme is also an important signal to municipalities and county councils that this is an important system to which we must stick. It is then worrying, I think, that signals of a slowing down of the scheme, that was in the budget, are now coming at the same time as a strangling of the municipalities and county municipalities. I just want to encourage the Council of State to fight like a lioness for this scheme to escalate, as the committee majority asked, and that it is part of getting the cultural budget up to a proper level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e766	I have said that one of my most important tasks as Minister of Culture will be to fight to give priority to cultural issues, both in this room and around the municipality of Norway. So I get to take the call to my chest and just say that I'm going to fight, if not like a lioness, so at least as best I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e774	I have the following questions for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘Since 1993, the number of unretired persons has increased alarmingly. This development has occurred despite the fact that in 1991 the Storting strengthened the criteria for admitting disability where the medical criteria were to be given greater emphasis. In recent years, social security law may seem to have led to a more liberal approach to diffuse disease concepts such as fibromyalgia. What will the Council of State do to dampen the strong increase in the number of disabled people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e783	In order to limit the increase in access to new disability pensioners at the end of the 1980s, the medical conditions for disability pension were tightened in 1991. This was based on the assumption that the acquisition ability is permanently reduced by at least half and that the reduction is caused substantially by disease. Furthermore, provision was made for rules on the requirements to be imposed on disease and on the reduced ability to acquire. Regulations stipulated that the disease should have led to permanent disability. When assessing whether the reduction in purchasing power is substantially due to disease, the labour market situation should be disregarded. Furthermore, in the event of undiagnosed suffering, a broad medical-professional agreement was required in assessing whether the conditions for disability pension had been met. In 1994 the Social Security Court issued a statement of principle in a fibromyalgia case. The Court of First Instance held, inter alia, that: the reason why there was not sufficient legal support to require a permanent disease. In 1995, the law clarified the medical conditions for entitlement to disability pension. It was statutory that a permanent medical condition is required and that this must be the main cause of the reduced acquisition capacity. Special treatment of disorders ‘without objective findings’ was not continued in the law. The aim of the amendment was to clarify any question of doubt and to stop liberalisation which could otherwise have followed the ruling of the Social Security Court the year before. After a decline from the early 1990s, there has been a significant increase in the number of new unemployees since 1997 and in particular in the last two years, despite improved labour market conditions and the fact that it has become easier for disabled people and others with health problems to obtain and maintain work. On the initiative of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in the light of the significant increase, the Swedish National Agency for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions has carried out a study on the adequacy of treatment in cases of disability pension. However, preliminary results from a pilot study in the Quality Control of Disadvantages in the Social Security Agency do not indicate a significant systemic quality defect. The study indicated errors in only a relatively small proportion of the decisions, but at the same time showed that there was different assessment in a slightly larger part of the cases. This is linked to the fact that there is a great deal of discretion in these decision-making processes. With regard to developments in the field of disability, the situation can be summarised as follows: The development of age groups suggests continued growth in the number of young people up to approx. 2010; Some of the growth will occur in the age group over 50, which has a relatively high risk of inadequacy.More people go directly from sickness benefit to disability pension. Recreation appears to be tried for an increasingly small proportion of the new disability pensioners. And an increasing proportion of those posted from re-employment receive disability pension within one year.The proportion of the population who become disabled is increasing most in the 18-45 age group. New workers under the age of 40 are increasingly being tried. According to a questionnaire in the Social Security Act, some liberalisation of practices has taken place as a result of the adaptation to social security claims, in particular the «fibromyalgia certificate» and the amendment of the legislation in 1995, when the special treatment of suffering without objective findings was removed. The last two years have seen a decrease in the number of proceedings. Remainder reduction has contributed to increased access.There are large geographical variations in new access and the number of disability pensioners. The government believes that the increasing default rate is worrying. This is particularly true of the increase among young people. A sample led by County Councillor Matz Sandman has been mandated to identify the reasons for the increase in sick leave and the number of new disability pensioners and to assess and propose measures to mitigate these developments. The committee will give its opinion in mid-September this year, and the investigation will then be sent to wide consultation. Therefore, I do not think it appropriate to propose far-reaching changes to the disability pension scheme, but I am already going to implement administrative measures in the current legislation that can help to dampen growth. I will come back to the current measures in relation to the revised national budget for 2000. Finally, let me say that the key prerequisite for more people to stay longer in work is an inclusive working life, where there is also room for people with impaired health. The ageing composition of the population suggests that we will have a shortage of labour in the future. If we are to meet the challenges, for example: in the field of care and care, it is important that more workers within, inter alia: this sector may remain longer in the labour market. There is therefore a high level of responsibility for municipalities and other employers through good senior policy and the organisation of work to facilitate the work of older workers with health problems. Everyone's going to make a profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e824	It was reassuring to hear the Social Minister's answer to my question. It is quite clear that the department is very observant of the developments that are now taking place. A separate report prepared by the Rikstrygdeverket itself, ‘The development of the disability pension scheme in the 1990s — a change in practice’, shows that the Social Security Court has put forward a practice that is far more libe-ral compared to objective medical diagnosis than has been the case in the past. That's bad enough. However, it is also stated in this report that the case handlers of the Rikstrygdeverket have gradually adjusted their practice in relation to the decisions of the Social Security Court, and I find that very worrying. My first follow-up question will then be: Does the Minister of Social Affairs find this development suspicious in relation to the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e829	I find any deviation from the law objectionable, and especially within this area, for rightly enough, this is with disability a benefit that is very useful to many, but at the same time it is a benefit that parks people outside the labour market and deprives them of quite a number of opportunities for the rest of their lives. That is why, in the revised budget, we propose that we start with a new quality assurance work within the Swedish Social Security Agency, where the treatment of disability cases by the Social Security Agency should be carefully reviewed, and a more consistent practice should be established that is consistent with the provisions of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e834	I thank you again for the answer, and I am reassured by it. In the case of particularly disadvantaged young people, on whom the Minister of Social Affairs was involved in his first post, we have a special category. Unfortunately, there are young people with special, difficult back disorders that the Norwegian health care system today does not have the skills to cure, and they often end up being ill at an age of less than 30. There is good treatment abroad, but it is not approved by the Rikstrygdeverket. Has this special patient group been a topic after discussing these matters in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e841	One of the reasons why it is important to follow up on the unskilled, whether they are in the process of becoming it or they have already become it, is to see whether new forms of treatment can actually lead to them being able to recover. I don't know exactly the suffering Alvheim pointed out, but I want to take his information back to the department, and we want to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e849	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘NFS meets the criteria for support for the operation of humanitarian organisations. [[Norwegian Federation for Slight Synthesis]] What will the Council of State do to ensure that the organisation is supported, so that it is treated in a non-discriminatory manner with other organisations working to safeguard the interests of disabled persons?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e858	The representative Danielsen claims that the Norwegian Federation of Favourable Syndicates ‘complies with the criteria for support for the operation of humanitarian organisations’. As explained in the letter of the then Minister of Social Affairs of 28 October 1999 to the Enlarged Group of the Progressive Party, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health does not have a general system of support for the operation of humanitarian organisations. I am also not aware of any state aid scheme for such a purpose. But I am aware that the Ministry of Justice has approved the association as a lottery organisation under the Lottery Act. What the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has is an appropriation for the coup d'état of the State budget. 673 to 75 grant to organisations with disabilities. The purpose of the appropriations is described in the 2000 budget proposal as follows: ‘The purpose of the appropriations is to strengthen the ability of organisations with disabilities to carry out policy-making activities and to provide services to their own members. The activities of disabled people’s organisations are central to ensuring user involvement in the development of measures and services and to promoting the interests of people with disabilities in society.’;» As indicated in the budget proposal, the funds are allocated by a name appointed by the Ministry. The Ministry has provided guidelines for the distribution. The first indent of the criteria for an organisation to be recognised as eligible under this scheme is: ‘The organisation must be disabled and disabled, or of relatives of people with disabilities who have difficulty in caring for their own interests. Disability must conflict with the individual's assumptions and with the requirements of the environment and society for function in areas which are essential for the establishment and maintenance of human independence and social life.» Norsk För Svalsynte applied for grants under this scheme for 1998. The application was rejected by the distribution panel. The title of the division stated that it ‘does not consider the association to cover the first indent of the criteria’. Connectedly complained to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health about the decision of the denominator. The Ministry maintained its decision. In its reply, the Ministry stressed that, in its application, the NFS target population was 400000 people, i.e. Nearly 1/10 of the population. This is such a large group that one must be able to assume that most will function fairly normally using glasses and other commonly available aids. The association complained on 29 September 1999 to the Ombudsman of Stortinget for the administration of the department's decision. There were also questions about the stability of the members of the distribution panel. The matter is still before the Ombudsman, and I therefore do not think it appropriate to comment on it further before the Ombudsman’s opinion is available. I aim that we will normally base the Ombudsman's opinion on our further work on the matter. The association has also applied for aid for 1999 and 2000. The application for 1999 was rejected by the name and by the Ministry as a Board of Appeal because it did not contain the necessary information. I understand that the connection has accepted this decision, the department is at least not informed of anything else. The distribution topic has also rejected the application for 2000. The Ministry has recently received a complaint about the rejection. This is usually sent for assessment in the distribution topic, and I will not go into it here until the denominator has stated itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e883	I thank the Minister for the answer. I record that she does not wish to give an opinion until the matter has been settled by the Stortinges Ombudsman for the administration. What I would like to do then is allow me to come back to the matter later if the support is not in order. The point here is that the Norwegian Federation of Weak Synths represents a large group of people who today do not get the help and support I think they are entitled to and for which they need. I say thank you so much.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e893	‘According to figures from the Cancer Register, around 50 people are diagnosed annually with asbestos cancer, in substance acquired through work; [[professional disease]] Does the Council of State consider it reasonable that the period of proceedings should be such as to enable it to determine a public benefit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e900	As regards the procedure period, in 1997 the Ministry amended the law so that, without prejudice to professional secrecy, the Register of Cancer may send a notification to the Rikstrygdverket of cases for which there is reason to believe that there is a substantial professional need. This has led to an improvement in the knowledge of the rights of persons who may have had work-related cancer and an increase in social security claims. Although the number of demands entering the social security system has increased, the length of the procedure for this type of case is not very long. On the contrary, this is a type of matter which the social security system prioritises to have completed quickly. One problem may be that the cases are not reported earlier because they themselves are not aware that the disease can be occupational. This is a question that primarily needs to be addressed by the occupational health service. I would like to mention that the Directorate of Labour has recommended health studies of exposed workers even after they have left work. In the case of compensation for men and women from social security to persons injured in employment, there is no benefit intended to cover an economic loss. The performance shall compensate for the risks and disadvantages experienced by a injured person, to the extent possible. You could call it some kind of "unresponsive substitute". Substitution is therefore intended to be a benefit for the injured person as long as he or she lives. So the benefit falls away from the time that the victim dies. In principle, compensation is paid on an ongoing basis in the future and the payment ceases in the event of death. However, if the victim so wishes, the compensation may be paid as a lump sum. That is to say, the future value of the benefit is paid ‘once and for all’ according to specific guidelines. Regardless of the choice of means of payment, it is not intended that the benefit should be due to the survivors, they do not have a right to it. Therefore, if a injured person dies before he or she has been granted compensation and has also chosen to have it paid as a lump sum, the benefit is granted until the time of death. That is, the survivors, or the deceased, are not entitled to a lump sum. If the injured person has received compensation as a lump sum, what may be left of the benefit in the event of a subsequent death will not be recovered. The compensation has already been paid ‘once for all’ based, inter alia, on: average life expectancy. The fact that all or part of the compensation may be due to the survivors in such cases is therefore a result of the fact that the victim has previously received the benefit as a lump sum. However, I would like to assess whether there is anything that can be done about the actual payment of this benefit. This applies in particular to situations that may occur by, for example: Asbestos cancer, where it is entitled to human replacement. The starting point for such an assessment will be that the replacement is a personal benefit to the injured person in order to improve the life situation, in addition to the purely economic loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e922	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was a clear explanation of the situation today and the rules of popular peace. So the situation that can arise from today's legislation is that two people who are both authorized men's replacements can be treated quite differently depending on whether or not you have pulled a sign on the paper that gives you the right to pay. In the NRK program Puls, an example was presented where two people had both signed for payment. One gets the payout a few days before he dies, the other falls from, and there's no payout. The fact that you can get a one-off allowance means that in some cases, even in relation to the survivors, you get funds available, in other cases not. I would therefore like to ask: one thing is that the legislation is as it is today, but does the Council of State see that there may be a need here to change the legislation because it gives this kind of expression that I have described?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e931	I had the pleasure of seeing the representative, Ballo, and hearing his answer in the TV show. I didn't know about this sort of thing before, until this came up – I have a relatively short speed as a social minister. I think our surprise was about equal to that it could be like this, so I'm going to look further on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e939	‘The law on popular security contains separate regulations on the reimbursement of air ambulance transport costs. Emergency medical air ambulance missions are covered by popular concern. Does the Council of State consider that the regulations also provide a basis for the coverage of the costs of popular protection when a more prudent transport to hospital is absolutely necessary than that which can be done with other means of transport?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e946	The responsibility for the air ambulance service is enshrined in the Hospital Act and the People's Security Act. Under the hospital law, the government is responsible for the planning, expansion and operation of the air ambulance service. Planning responsibilities shall be carried out in cooperation with the counties and the service shall be included in the respective health plan of the county. According to the People's Security Act, if the airline or helicopter company has an agreement with the social security system, the social security benefits provided by the people's pension are granted by means of an air ambulance. The Ministry may provide detailed rules on benefits. The Ministry has provided for the coverage of air ambulance transport costs on the basis of this provision. The regulation specifies that in the event of a disease or injury requiring such rapid and effective medical assistance that the use of an ambulance/boat or other more time-consuming means of transport may endanger the life or health of the member, the costs of transporting an ambulance are covered. The same applies where a more gentle transport to a hospital is absolutely necessary than that which can be done with other means of transport. However, the provision clearly states that transfers between health institutions should be exempted. It also regulates transfers between health institutions. It clarifies that public health should not cover the costs of transferring patients between health institutions unless the transfer is for emergency medical reasons. This means that people’s money should cover expenditure only when transfers between health institutions are made for emergency medical reasons. I can inform you that the Riksrevision has recently carried out a review of, among other things. the air ambulance area. The National Audit Office states that the costs of the air ambulance transport of patients between health institutions should not be covered by the public interest unless this is done for emergency medical reasons. The National Auditor has requested a statement from the National Auditor's Office on why these types of tasks have been covered by popular concern until now. It has never been assumed that the counties will pay in full for the return operations. The average total cost of an air ambulance operation amounts to NOK 25 000. The corresponding cost for car ambulances is approx. NOK 2000 The country shall continue to pay for the determined costs, i.e.: the costs of preparedness and health professionals. The counties shall only pay at a technical hourly rate of approximately NOK 4500, i.e.: one fifth of the costs. This was among other things: the background to the proposal by the Government of Bondevik in the 2000 budget to tighten up the practices of the social security system, so that county municipalities wishing to use the aircraft for return operations have to cover the costs themselves. Savings were estimated at 5 million. kr. The size had no comments on this, and the budget was adopted on this basis. That's what's now being followed up. I can otherwise inform you that the department will evaluate the scheme. We aim to return to the Stortinget with an interim evaluation in the context of the 2001 State budget. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is currently working on a major emergency medical emergency response message, including the air ambulance service in Norway. The background material for the part of the notification concerning the air ambulance service is NOU 1998: 8 Air ambulance service in Norway. The message will include: address the issue of return operations. The purpose of the notification is to be submitted to the Storting within the month of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e967	I take note of the Council's response, which I find very disappointing. It is historically the fact that some of the journeys we are talking about in the case of return services have been covered by the Reichstrygdeverket completely indisputably and via passenger services on scheduled flights. So we've been asked by the Rikstrøgdeverket about residual capacity in the air ambulance in order to take some of those transports over to the air ambulance, and then we've been most willing to assist in this way, so that the Rikstrøgdeverket already has significant savings on it. I think that the entire presentation provided by the department in this case is historyless, because the law allows it to be covered for reasons other than purely emergency medicine, as stated in Section 2 of the Hospital Act, and so cooperation agreements have been concluded which have been extended far in order to take part of the return transport. In my view, it seems completely unreasonable that it should be covered by the various states, but this also makes it reasonable to change the law here in order to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e972	Ambulance transport is a county responsibility. For example, Finnmark County has an ambulance budget of 40 million. kr. In order to cover some of the costs of using air ambulance services also for non-acute cases, with the discovery decided by Stortinget, the municipality of Finnmark costs between 800000 and 1,2 million. kr. If you see this in connection with the large ambulance budget you have in the Finnish state municipality, it says something about this not being a very big matter for the county. In addition, I think it is important that we follow up the budgets adopted in the Storting – which the representative Ballo has also voted in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e981	Does the representative, Mr Ballo, want the word for supplementary questions? He has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e984	When the various members of the Social Committee were to look afterwards at the reason for this change in practice by the Ministry, it required a rather detailed reading of a two-page description of the air ambulance service. I think, at least I'll recognize it on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, that as the production at that time was from the Department, it was not possible to capture the consequences of the budget change. I note that the department later says that you have to be loyal to the Storting decision. But what I think is the case here is that the department and government – the previous government and now the current government – have given a presentation of this matter that in many ways leads the Stortinge behind the light. It was based on cooperation agreements between the Ministry, the Rikstrygdeverket and the various counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e991	I have explained as well as I could this matter, both in letters to several representatives of big business and now from Stortingen's pulpit, and I feel that I have presented the matter as best I can. I would like to repeat that we come back with an evaluation of this matter in the state budget for 2001, and that in reply letters to a number of doctors and hospital directors in the three northernmost states have said that if they want it, I would like to meet them on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1001	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The flight offer in the international region around Evenes is too poor and is not acceptable. A regular aerodrome which Harstad/Narvik Airport may not have a lower route within the national area than the aerodromes have. From Evenes to Tromsø, there is a noon plane and an evening plane, to Bodø a morning plane and a late evening plane. The other way is the offer even worse. The connections to and from Finnmark and Helgeland are very bad. What will the Council of State do to improve relations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1010	The flight offer to and from Harstad/Narvik Airport Evenes has been assessed in the Ministry of Transport on several occasions in recent years, with background to local and regional wishes for improvement in the flight route offer. State purchases air route services on a tendering basis where the standard transport situation in an area is unsatisfactory, so-called public service obligation, FOT. In my opinion, nothing recent has occurred which suggests that the State should purchase air route services on a tender to and from Evenes. This assessment is based on several factors. Today there are two flights on a commercial basis from Evenes to both Bodø and Tromsø respectively. Furthermore, a good and efficient quick boat service is established between Harstad and Tromsø, with two daily departures each way. The State purchases air route services between Narvik and Bodø. There are also good correspondences on routes from Evenes and South to Helgeland. All in all, therefore, today’s existing collective offers from the Harstad/Narvik region provide good travel opportunities. Finally, I would also like to mention that a small company named Kato Air for a period operated a quality good route offer on a commercial basis, based at Harstad/Narvik Airport Evenes, with two tours daily morning and afternoon to both Tromsø and Bodø. The route offer was closed after a period because it was not used to a sufficient extent, which indicates that today’s offer is adequate in relation to the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1023	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that offers have been evaluated for a long time, precisely because users in the most popular region in North Norway are not satisfied with the route offer. I am also aware that the department has claimed, among other things. in reply to the municipality of Harstad as late as April this year, that the transport offer is good enough, despite a request from the rapporteurs in Harstad, Alstahaug, Stjørdal, Brønnøy and Hammerfest. Many nationwide institutions do not have the opportunity and are subject to extremely high costs due to too poor an offer. So I'm going to be allowed to ask the supplementary question: Don't make this impression on the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1032	Of course, in assessing whether it is appropriate to enter and purchase air route services, the Ministry provides information from the municipalities, county municipalities and user groups concerned. Of course, we always receive signals from users, but we have to make an overall assessment of whether it is appropriate to go in and buy air route services and then go away from operations on a commercial basis. It is this overall assessment that has provisionally concluded that it is not appropriate to enter and purchase air route services on those routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1037	I then have to ask what assessments are needed to ensure that from Stokmarknes to Bodø there are six daily trips/returns. From the Westphalia, there are routes across Evenes to Narvik, which from its small aerodrome have three daily journeys/return routes. What is it that allows these routes to enter the FOT system, but that Evens as the base aerodrome can't get an equally good offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1042	The representative of Østberg mentions examples of other offers in the region, and this is, as the representative of Østberg says, offers that have been established under the FOT scheme. It is, as I say, a total assessment that underlies whether to go in and buy services, and in this context I just have to repeat that we have not yet seen reason to go in and buy services in relation to Harstad/Evenes despite having purchased services on the routes to which the representative of Østberg refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1050	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «During the treatment of St.prp. No 64 provided for the majority of the Committee on Transport that the State's contribution to the construction of a new road to the Tjeldbergodden would follow the rules for grants to large district road projects at that time. [[1997-98]] The majority did not consider it reasonable that the grant should be covered by the national régime of the county, cf. Inner. [[1997-98]] S. No 229 Can the Council of State confirm that the Ministry will follow up the clear assumption of the Storting in the case in the proposal for the 2001 government budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1059	State grants for road construction of the Tent Goods are provided for during the period 1998-2001. This is apparent from the Ministry of Transport's letter of 18 November 1997 to the municipalities of More and Romesdal and South-Trøndelag, and is in line with the majority opinion of the Committee on Transport at the time of the examination of the Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1998-2007. Storing assumptions for the treatment of St.prp. No 64 for 1997-98 was used as a basis for allocating funds to the project in both 1999 and 2000. I assume that the assumptions of the Storting will also be followed up in the draft budget for 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1068	I thank you for the answer – a positive response, and also an expected response from the Storting’s previous handling of the case. Based on that treatment, the question should really be unnecessary to travel today, because I take it as a matter of course that clear leaders from Stortinget are followed up by the department and the government. I understand that around the counties there is an ongoing consultation on proposals for the 2001 budget for transport, and, according to the County rapporteur in More and Romesdal, the opinion is that the directorate is still of the opinion that the reimbursement to Møre and Romesdal for the advance of the road to the Tent Goods should be covered by the national charts of the county, despite the fact that the issue was clarified in Stortinget. But now I perceive that Storting's intentions are being followed up and all doubts are cleared out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1078	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Oslo City Council has decided to implement the Fjordbyen project, which will contribute to promoting human-water contact, an urban development plan whereby large parts of port activities will be moved to other ports outside the city. How will the Council of State contribute to the State's ability to become an active driver in order to implement what Oslo City Council has adopted?'
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1087	Oslo port is Norway’s largest port of transhipment of parcels and is of great importance for the transport of goods to and from all of Norway. For the treatment of St.meld. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport, cf. Inner. S. No 254 for 1996-97, Stortinget concluded that Oslo port, together with seven other ports, was to be classified as national ports in view of their importance for transport. My responsibility as the Minister responsible for port policy is to help the national ports fulfil the important role they have in a national transport context, while at the same time ensuring that the municipal wishes are properly served within the framework of the Port and Water Law. Therefore, the wish of the municipalities of Oslo to use port areas for purposes other than port activities cannot be seen independently of the port and transport situation in the region as a whole. The Ministry of Fisheries appointed on 24 April 1998 a sample to assess future port structure and port cooperation in the Oslo region. The committee’s position is printed as NOU 1999:24, Port structure in the Oslofjord region. The sample found that there should still be container handling in Oslo port, but that part of it can be met by improving the efficiency of the land use in the port and laying a roof on the development. The sample concluded that the growth of port activities should be distributed among the ports in the region, thereby reducing the environmental problems in each of the ports concerned for the management of container traffic. Future port developments should take place within the framework of inter-municipal port cooperation. In the municipal government decision of 19 January 2000, the municipality of Oslo assumes that it wishes to free up a maximum part of the port areas for urban development, and the municipality states, among other things. the desire to enter into cooperation with the State, county and relevant municipalities in order to arrive at regional port solutions. The implementation of the decisions of the City Council of Oslo under the provisions of the Port and Water Waters Act on the use of the funds of the port fund for port purposes is primarily the responsibility of the Municipality of Oslo. However, the Ministry of Fisheries has taken note of the municipality’s opinion on cooperation in this matter. In this context, I would like to point out that inter-municipal port cooperation is established elsewhere in the country and that some of these cooperations have been extended recently. Intermunicipal port cooperation opens up the possibility of establishing regional port solutions supporting the use of maritime transport as an environmentally friendly mode of transport. I would therefore like to follow up the invitation from the Municipality of Oslo for a dialogue, and have great faith that we can jointly find a solution that takes care of port activities and urban development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1105	I thank the Council of State for the answer – but one of the core issues is that it is difficult to combine full container operations and urban development. The vision of opening the country's capital to fjord is a vision for the future. It is fully in line with the trend we are now seeing across Europe and in other parts of the world. It implies the realization of one of the main ideas of the Oslo Urban Government Urban Ecology Programme, namely to promote human-water contact. And Fjordbyen opens up great opportunities in that way. Once we have completed the medieval town and a new opera building, we will be able to have a whole new town with a full opening to the fjord, with docks and boating grounds, a guest harbour with its facilities, restaurants and cafes, commercial buildings and shops. You also have to bear in mind that Oslo is the gateway for hundreds of thousands of tourists. State Secretary Bergli has said that she sees it as a goal to go against the city council. Does the Council of State agree with its Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1114	I do not believe that Secretary of State Bergli has stated that there is a desire to go against the Municipality of Oslo, but the State Secretary has explained the restrictions on the use of the port funds. Of course, I agree with these statements. Otherwise, I will repeat what I said in my main reply: it is actually a national task to ensure that coastal transport and port activities can also be carried out in Oslo, as in other cities. But I firmly believe that constructive cooperation between the fisheries authorities, in this case, and the Municipality of Oslo, can help to find solutions that are to live with for all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1121	There is nothing to suggest that you have to have container traffic in the Oslo centre, but it would be a great advantage if you could get the container business out of the center. There's competition all over Oslo Earth to get this traffic. Larvik, Grenland, Drammen, Moss and Fredrikstad have, among other things, said they were interested. Everyone has space and capacity, and the transhipment of containers on trailers in Oslo port before shipping to Alnabru is very expensive. I have been informed that the price of sending a container from New York to Alnabru is actually 30 pst. higher if it goes via Oslo port than if it goes e.g. via Larvik port and from there by railway to Alnabru. There is nothing to suggest that we should have this container traffic in Oslo port. I would like to receive a confirmation from the Council of State that the state will now be a driver to implement what Minister of State Sylvia Brustad says is important, namely local autonomy and local decision-making.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1128	Of course, the state will always be a driving force for local democracy to be as living as possible, but it is actually so that some disciplines are of national importance. I think it is exciting that more ports in the area around Oslo want to cooperate with more activity added to these ports. I want to repeat what I said in my main reply: I think it should be possible to find practical solutions to both transport needs and port needs while at the same time the vision of the future in Oslo port can be realized.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1139	This question, from Svein Ludvigsen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Social Affairs who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1142	I have a question to put to him – to me it is not so important whether it is the Minister for Fisheries or the Minister for Social Affairs, just the answer is positive. My question is: «Fischers who become pregnant before the age of 60 or during the period between the age of 60 and 67 shall not be paid a fisherman's pension to which they have paid an additional premium because of the coordination provisions with the right of citizens' rights. Fishermen who are not disabled receive the fishing allowance and are able to maintain professional activity. This gives the fisherman’s pension a distorted social profile that affects a relatively small group of fishermen. Will the Council of State ensure that the fishing allowance, which is intended to be a retirement pension, does not discriminate against workers rather than workers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1151	As other pension schemes in our public social security system, the fishing pension has been coordinated with the pensions of the people since 1967, and before that with the former disability benefit. All our regulated supplementary pension schemes, the pension scheme for fishermen, forest workers and seafarers, as well as the contractual pension scheme, are fully coordinated with the disability pension of the people. On several occasions, the Norwegian Fisheries Team has raised questions about the abolition of the coordination of fishing pensions with the disability pension of the population, including: in a meeting with me on 4 April this year. The issue was most recently assessed by the Stortinget in 1993, when some changes were made to the fishing pension, including: the retirement age was reduced from 62 to 60 years and benefits were increased. The size agreed at the time that it would be difficult to ease the coordination provisions especially for fishing pensions. The pension scheme for fishermen was adapted to the population’s fears in 1967. The aim of the fishing pension is to meet the pension needs of older fishermen aged between 60 and 67 who are not covered by the age and disability pension of the population. The fishing profession is demanding, and there is therefore an understanding that most fishermen need early retirement before age 67, so that older fishermen have the opportunity to step down. The fishing pension is a collective and cooperative pension scheme with significant co-financing through the turnover tax on fish. In the past, the scheme was also partly financed by the export charge on fish, and the current pension fund is largely built up by the export charge. In the past, the Member’s premium was a relatively small part of the funding. However, the membership fee has increased markedly since the closure of the 1993 export tax and the improvements in the 1994 system. In 1994 the Member’s premium increased from DKK 970 in 1993 to DKK 1500 in 1994, currently amounting to DKK 2880. The pension payment is significantly greater than the individual’s contributions to the scheme. The pension currently amounts to SEK 75 120 per year. According to the Fisheries Guarantee Fund, there are currently 65 fishermen who have earned entitlements in the premium for fishermen but who do not receive a fishing pension because of coordination with the disability pension of the population. In addition, 142 persons receive a reduced fishing allowance because they receive a classified disability pension. A total of nearly 1,800 fishermen receive a fishing pension and in 1999 pension expenditure was well over 90 million. kr. Without coordination with the disability pension, expenditure would increase by 7 million. kr. These are the costs that fishermen's pension can bear. The problem is the need for equality in relation to other state-guaranteed pension schemes that are coordinated in the same way. In addition, the fishing pension has a special access point to the maritime pension, and there are certain advantages in bringing together vesting time in the two schemes. The issue of abolishing the coordination of fishing pensions cannot therefore be assessed in isolation, but must be seen in conjunction with our overall social security system. In this context, it will be difficult to abolish the coordination provisions for the fishing pension. I can therefore give no promise about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1174	I am very disappointed that the Council of State is so negative to reconsider this, because, as the Council of State was also involved, this system is such that it discriminates against the weakest, namely those who become destitute. There is a relatively small group in question, but for that reason one should not be negative. It's not right, as the Council of State says, that the arrangement is solidarity. It is directly unsolvable. I'm going to give the Council of State and the President an example of this: a fisherman who is 60 years old, but who is so fresh and agitated that he can almost make a full annual income, maybe $200,000-300,000, will get his fisherman's pension of 1.6 G paid from 60 to 67 years, while a fisherman who gets sick and who has to pay attention to disability pension, maybe $100,000 a year, won't get any of what he's paid. Then we can't talk about the arrangement being solidarity. Then we have to realize that this is discriminatory. I ask the Council of State once again: does not the Council of State consider this scheme to be discriminatory and unsolvable?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1183	In a joint arrangement, I add that everyone is involved in paying into it, and then those who need it get paid pensions. Now this is a system of descent, as has been pointed out here, so for those who are dissatisfied from the past, it will not apply because they have already stepped down.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1188	I hear what the Council of State says, and I can only assert that the Council of State and I have a different view of what is solidarity, and what is stepping down. I'm noticing that what we're seeing now is that the weakest groups -- the few, and it's referred to 65 people, it's talking about seven million. kr – no payments are made, while the person who can be in more or less full employment can be paid 1,6 G, 100 000 kr per. years. The Council of State must realize that this is directly unsolvable. And when we talk about so few people and so little financial framework, I ask that the Council of State be willing to reconsider this, preferably in consultation with the Minister of Fisheries, so that this group can get a little more solidarity – and then I put my reference to solidarity to the foundation rather than to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1195	The complexity of this is not the extra 7 million that it would have led to if we had followed the proposal of the representative Ludvigsen, which is that all the other pension schemes are also coordinated. And if we are to relax on one, it will have a significant effect on many other schemes. Therefore, it is difficult to grasp this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1203	‘There is considerable pressure on the coastal zone and a political priority task to ensure better access to it by the public. The Coastal Directorate has several attractive open-air areas that are no longer used for their original purpose. The adopted disposal instructions should provide a good basis for the free transfer of properties for outdoor purposes. This work seems to have stopped. Will the Council of State contribute to the progress of transfer work and the safeguarding of valuable open-air areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1210	The Coastal Agency is currently responsible for the management of a number of coastal land properties, most of which are related to the fireworks service. The disposal of the properties of the Coastal Works shall in principle be carried out in accordance with the instructions of the State on the disposal of real estate. In this respect, it is stated that, as a general rule, disposal shall be effected after publication and on the basis of market prices. Thus, proposals for selling at a sub-price or disposal as a gift are to be submitted to the Stortinget. Structural changes within the fireworks service have resulted in some properties no longer having any value for use in the Coastal Works, and the Government has in St.meld. No 33 for 1996-97, the assessment of the closure of the lighthouse watch, laid down the following procedure and conditions for the disposal of lighthouses: 1st@item: inlistbox Fees will be collected.2. Current state, county or municipal institutions are contacted for possible transfer, preferably at tariff.3. If these are not interested, contacting non-profit associations and ultimately consider sales to private persons.4. Any transfer of first instalments will require maintenance. In the examination of that forecast, Stortinget ended up doing so at the Innst. S. No 186 for 1996-97. For information, it may be mentioned that the last few years have been disposed of for the first seven years. In addition, it is decided that the Filtvet guy will be sold in 2000. The rate of this guy is set at 3.5 million. NOK, but Hurum Municipality will take over the station for NOK 350000. The reason for this is that the municipality should establish a maritime cultural centre on the lighthouse, and also make the area around the installation available to local and local residents. In connection with the sale of the Filtvet Firstment to Hurum Municipality, the Ministry of Fisheries will introduce a materialised clause on use for non-profit purposes. Otherwise, it is announced in St. Prp. No 1 for 1999-2000 for the Ministry of Fisheries that during 2000 there will be a large-scale notification of the fireworks service. In addition to addressing areas such as manning, security, maintenance and administrative responsibilities, the notification will address issues related to the transfer and disposal of different lighthouses. Of course, an important element of the assessments to be made is to facilitate public access to the properties where this is of interest and is feasible. The government will therefore come back to Stortinget with a detailed assessment of the issue raised by the representative of Storing Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1236	It is positive that the Storting will be given a statement, as the Council of State now promises. I guess I'm familiar with St.meld. No 33 for 1996-97 and the criteria outlined for the disposal of properties, but there is also a 1997 disposal instruction stating that when there is to be a transition from one State operator to another, this should be possible free of charge. It is an experience for those working in open-air areas that, while cooperation between the Defence and the Directorate for Nature Management is working well, there are a number of delays between this Directorate and the Coastal Directorate. My follow-up question will be about it in the follow-up that we are promised, as well as a review of how this works between the Coastal Directorate and the Directorate for Nature Management, in conjunction with how other states, for example. The defence has practised the policy on the disposal of open-air property.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1245	Of course, the issue of the transfer of first instalments to other public institutions will be part of the communication promoted by the Storting. I want to underline one more thing, and that is that in addition to disposing of properties, transferring them to other agencies, private or public, we place special emphasis on these, which, after all, are cultural monuments, have a maintenance obligation on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1252	Government responses have been largely concentrated on quay properties, and it is such that a substantial part of the properties that the directorate has are related to fire. But these are also other properties, and there have been isolated cases where it has been a question of transferring these properties to the Ministry of the Environment of the Directorate for Nature Management, so that they could be used for outdoor purposes in general. I just want to make sure that one in the review that is announced here, does not narrow this down to just first-times, but takes along the total property portfolio that one has, and that may be of interest to the purposes in which I have been engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1259	The message that will be provided will mainly relate to the lighthouse service. But I assume that a reasonable approach to this is that the conclusions drawn there are also used to address similar issues for other properties of the Coastal Plant where this is natural, if no other considerations would indicate that conditions are too different.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1267	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: «The herd of king crabs has largely destroyed Varangerfjord for fishing with yarn, as the fish get the yarns full of crabs with damaged yarns as a result. Today, only very limited research is carried out by royal crabs. In the fisheries negotiations with Russia last year, researchers in the Russian delegation proposed a catch quota of 300,000 crabs, which the Norwegian delegation did not accept. Why was the Russian proposal not followed up, and will Norway in future listen to Russian quota proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1276	The royal crab population is currently managed by Norway and Russia through the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission. The previous Murmansk Commission meeting in November 1999 discussed the issue of quota for royal crabs and agreed to set a quota of 75 000 crabs for 2000. I have been informed that last autumn Russian scientists went out to Norwegian fishing press in advance of the Murmansk meeting and signalled a desire for quota levels for royal crabs in the order of magnitude mentioned by the representative Bastisen in his question. However, I would like to make it clear that this was not an official Russian proposal to the Norwegian authorities. On the contrary, in the Commission meeting Norway proposed an increase in the quota, to which the Russians at that time were absolutely negative. Furthermore, it is important to be clear that in the negotiations between Norway and Russia, it is the negotiators who, through their mandates, have the power to discuss the level of allowances and negotiate a total quota for royal crabs, not the researchers. Of course, I cannot explain here what the parties to such bilateral negotiations have discussed. However, I can answer what I consider to be the real question of the representative of Bastisen, namely whether the Norwegian authorities want to increase the quota for royal crabs. I can then inform you that we have actually addressed this through a formal request to the Russian authorities in February this year. The issue will be addressed by the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, which aims at an extraordinary meeting already in June. I can also inform you that the Ministry of Fisheries will send out an invitation to meet with interested parties to discuss all relevant issues in relation to the administration of royal crabs. The meeting shall be part of the process leading to a scheme for future Norwegian administration of royal crabs. The discussion at this meeting will be a new input as a background for the extraordinary meeting of the Commission in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1289	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I must admit that my question could have been a little different, but we got to the point. And that's what it's all about: Is it willing to increase the extraction of royal crabs? I have an additional question, and it goes on that the Russians in the 1960s put out crabs in the White Sea. Was there, then, a request from Russia? Was it accepted by Norway as a neighbouring country that they should put out this crab, which does not belong in the Barents Sea, and which has now spread down the Norwegian coast, has destroyed Varangerfjord totally for net fishing and spreads further down the coast? This is a problem. My question is, as I said, was this accepted by Norway? Is there any agreement that we accepted this alien element in Norwegian waters?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1298	I'm not aware that you had previous discussions with Norway until you put out royal crabs 30 years ago. However, what I have said in previous answers in the Question Time is that this is the situation, and as we today assess biodiversity, we would never have allowed this kind of alien organism in the type of biotopes that the Barents Sea is. On the question from the representative Bastesen about the willingness to increase the quotas, I answer yes from the Norwegian side. We see that this has created a significant problem, and we see that this crab is moving west at a rate that is very alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1305	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was like I was afraid. I do not understand the subjection that we are constantly going to show to Russia, which has introduced a new element in the Barents Sea that destroys fjords after fjords and takes the nutrient base away from the coastal fishermen. And then we're not going to reap from this. It can be converted from a nuisance to a resource. People can live well by fishing king crabs. The Ministry of the Environment has made a proposal to eradicate crabs, which is probably unrealistic. If you're going to do something like this, you have to start a big fish. The reason why the Ministry of the Environment proposed this is that the crab has a parasite that can attack codfish, for example. How does the Council of State address such a question? It is obvious that Norway has a special position here when the crabs are exposed to Norwegian interests, and in worst cases can be characterised as environmental crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1316	I can assure the representative Bastesen that Norway does not feel any subservience within the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. We're two equal parties. But we have come to an agreement on a certain extraction of crab, and we intend to stick to what we have agreed with the Russians, until something else is agreed. It would be very unfortunate if one of the parties to the agreement would open up a practice where the content of the agreement was not followed. I agree with the concern expressed by the Bastisen regarding the spread of this population. I've said that in the past. I think, like him, that it's not going to be eradicated, but we're going to do what we can to make sure that this isn't going to be a bigger biological experiment than it appears today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1326	I have a new question for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The newspaper Fiskeren, 28 April 2000, states that the spawning stock of Norwegian-Arctic cod has been reduced by 70 pst. last year. This is apparent from a note received by the Ministry of Fisheries from the Institute of Marine Research. Today, the tax pattern is largely concentrated on juvenile fish and must be characterised as unwise. Does this situation concern the Council of State, and what measures are planned to reverse developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1335	Of course, Norwegian fishing authorities are very concerned about the cod stock in the Barents Sea. The latest figures from the Marine Research Institute show that there is reason to believe that spawning populations will increase until 2002 and 2003. The worrying thing is that the recruitment of the population has failed in the last two years. Should recruitment fail this year too, we have a very serious situation, in which the relatively good year classes from 1994 and 1996 must last three years longer than under normal conditions. The high level of taxation and the pattern of taxation, which now appears to target cod three and four years old, are not beneficial to the population. In addition, we may be in danger of approaching a colder period in the Arctic seas. In June of this year, Norway and Russia shall hold an extraordinary meeting of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. For this meeting, new stock assessments and advice from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES, will be available for Norwegian-Arctic cod and hay. At the Commission’s last year’s meeting, a level of cod quota of 390,000 tonnes was agreed for 2000. According to the stock projections underlying the 2000 counselling, this means that during the course of 2000 the spawning population will increase from 275 000 to approx. 350000 tonnes. This is still below the recommended level of 500000 tonnes. There is also agreement to build up the spawning population to over 500000 tonnes and to further reduce fish mortality over the next few years. The Permanent Committee on Management and Control under the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission has been entrusted with preparing, in advance of the next Commission meeting, a proposal for a framework for the coordination of various regulatory technical measures to improve the pattern of taxation. I would also like to remind you that since 1997, there have been strong reductions in the total quota for Norwegian-Arctic cod. In total, reductions of 460000 tonnes have been made over the last three years. The last key results indicate that further cuts in the quota may be required. Otherwise, it is not as it is said here, that the spawning stock of Norwegian Arctic cod is reduced by 70 pst. last year. On the other hand, an index for this file is observed which is 70 pst. lower. This means that the absolute levels of spawning stock cannot be read directly from these indices. Here I would like to refer to the meeting that is going on in the Arctic Fisheries Working Group, under the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. The work here will form the basis for the stock analysis and the revised advice that will be available at the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1352	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have to say with Petter Dass: «Should the cod fail us, what did we have»? That's the big problem. If the cod population in the Barents Sea is reduced so that it goes beyond the coastal settlement, we're out to drive. We have growing populations of seals, we have growing populations of whales, and we have strongly overfished – I would call it – on small fish in the Barents Sea. It must be obvious that an attack must be carried out where it is possible to attack. The reduction in small fish fishing is, of course, the making of a power cap, as well as a reduction in marine mammals, because if we fish down the cod stock at a low level and continue to maintain the same growth in the marine mammals, we are facing a disaster in line with what happened in Newfoundland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1366	I agree with both Petter Dass and the representative of Bastesen that we depend on the cod population. That's how it has been, and that's how it's going to be in the future. I also agree with what is said that we should attack where it is possible to attack. It is clearly in the Norwegian interest to have an improved tax pattern on this important population. But at the same time, the tax pattern depends on several things. Among other things, the pattern of taxation depends on the strength of the different classes of the year. When we have two strong annual classes of juvenile fish in the stock available for fishing, we will inevitably get an increased pressure on these stocks. But I want to repeat what I said in my main answer: this should be reviewed at the next meeting of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1375	The previous Minister for Fisheries reduced a sample to evaluate the situation already in sight. That Commission has – to say the least – boiled in the cabbage. There could probably have been recommendations if the work had been followed up. Central researchers who have done a good job in the whales were put on the clearing job, and it was an evaluation of what is really going on in the research community — and at all stock assessment. Will the Minister for Fisheries possibly blow the lives of the group that was disabled, and perhaps get to do the job that was started, which I so rudely said boiled out in the cabbage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1382	As I mentioned in my main response, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea will review the data on cod stocks as well as the new data that you have. I have full confidence that this environment has the necessary competence to ensure that we get the best possible scientific advice. Otherwise, I will always be prepared to discuss possible improvements in methodology with the researchers who are responsible for having this implemented today. And I'm sure that the same environment will have great benefit and interest in discussing this with anyone who has competence and insight in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1389	Questions 18, 19 and 20, from the representatives of Brother Yngve Rahm, Lisbet Rughvedt and Per Roar Bredvold respectively to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1395	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, to answer the following questions: ‘The Kyoto Protocol provides for flexible implementation of each country’s emission obligations. Both the Kyoto Protocol and the Storting have established that these should be complementary to national measures. What strategy and what national measures has the Government put in place to meet our emissions obligations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1404	The government proposes that Norway should actively use the so-called Kyoto mechanisms, but we understand that their use should be a complement to national measures. The operation of the word ‘addition’ is one of the themes of the international negotiations. Like the Bondevik government, we do not want a numerical requirement for the use of the Kyoto mechanisms to be imposed. The government is working to further develop national climate action in order to achieve more cost-effective measures at home, in addition to those already realised by existing instruments. In particular, we're busy putting in place a national quota system. The length of time allowed for the quota committee to set up 10 days ago. The Government will follow up the timing in the light of the signals given by the Storting’s processing of the Energy Communication, the views expressed through the consultation process and the development of the EEA territory. We aim to return to Stortinget with this matter early next year. The Kyoto mechanism regulatory framework will be important for the design of the allowance system. This will be negotiated for decisions at the Sixth Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC to be held in The Hague in November. It may therefore be appropriate to await its outcome, as the EU Commission also proposes in its work on the allowance system. Using the existing instruments in the field of climate change, such as the CO2 tax, the final treatment tax on waste, direct regulation – especially in the waste sector – and the agreement with the aluminium industry, we have already achieved reductions in emissions compared to what would have been achieved without these instruments. The State Pollution Control Action Analysis, presented in February, shows that there is room for significant national emission reductions to moderate costs. We expect that Norwegian business with a rational quota system will want to realise cheap measures at home, and that it will show great creativity and come up with solutions that we do not see today. The Government will further initiate the creation of a new programme for the development of gas power plants clean-up technologies and intensified renewable energy deployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1419	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It wasn't that much new. During the debate we had in Stortingen on gas power, the centre parties called for a concrete definition of the areas in which we had to expect to take the national measures. When the Workers' Party then – I hope that the Council of State has modified this somewhat after the Workers' Party came into government, it seems this way – added that Norway should be able to compensate approximately 100 pst. for emissions, inter alia: with reference to the construction of gas power stations, there are many industries, industries, etc. which are concerned about the possible increased burden that they must bear as a result of the release of others. Does the Council have any signals to industries or industries in Norway about where these extra compensations need to be taken if we are to meet our emission requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1426	I do not think I have any new information in addition to what emerged from my reply. I might refer in particular to the State Pollution Control Action Analysis, which is currently going through opportunities for significant national emission reductions to moderate costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1431	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. She said in her first response that there was a process in progress to define what lies in flexible implementation mechanisms and also national measures. But it is well beyond doubt that when we talk about ‘addition’, it really means that the main measures to meet our Kyoto commitments must be taken using national instruments. Have the Council of State considered the time aspect here, because it was not very uplifting in view of the progress of that process when we are actually going to be able to document the results of action taken in Norway in 2005? Does the Council have any views as to whether this timetable will hold? And when will you come back to concrete new measures, which are clearly needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1438	As far as instruments other than those included in a national quota system are concerned, it is of course the case that when the Government finds that it is able to propose instruments that can promote climate change, it is proposed to do so on the basis of an overall assessment. Of course, as far as the timetable is concerned, you will work as quickly as possible. But the most important thing must be to put in place a system that will work, and then one must in a way balance the use of time against being able to get to the system. I am sure that the representative is aware that establishing such a national system, and also adapted to a possible international system, is a demanding task.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1448	: I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Oslo Racing Festival is planning a car race in Oslo from 30 June to 2 July 2000 in the area from Oslo S to Gamlebyen. The Old Oslo Urban Committee has been strongly opposed to the event because of the associated noise problems. In 1999, the Riksantikvar was very negative about similar plans. Does the Council of State consider that the Old Town with medieval ruins and dwellings is suitable for driving?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1457	Regarding the relationship with the medieval ruins and the Riksantikvarn's position in the matter, I would like to state the following: Following an application from the Oslo Racing Festival, the Riksantikvaren granted a derogation from the Culture Memory Act for the implementation of the race by decision of 13 April this year. The Riksantikvaren lay among others emphasis on the fact that the additional loads that the driving will cause on cultural memories do not give rise to a refusal to do so on the basis of the Cultural Memory Act and that the application is a temporary one-off measure. The Riksantikvar has made arrangements for the derogation in order to prevent damage to the medieval ruins of the area. The Oslo Medieval Association has appealed against the decision of the Riksantikvaren to the Ministry. The complaint is being processed, and I therefore do not want to comment now on the relationship with the cultural memory values in the area. With regard to the noise problems associated with the driving, I would like to point out that short-term events of this nature are not dealt with under the pollution law. In principle, this should be addressed by municipal authorities as a local problem, and the Old Oslo Urban Committee has expressed a negative opinion on whether they will follow the Oslo Racing Festival race for residents in the district. The sample considers that noise emitted by the racing cars and hired helicopters as well as diversion of traffic in the residential streets will cause the occupants to suffer too much. Furthermore, if recommended noise limits are exceeded, the Urban Committee will assess whether there is a basis for intervention and cessation of activities based on the Local Health Service Act. However, it should be known to the representative that any decision based on the Local Health Service Act does not fall within the scope of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1470	I thank the Council of State for the answer and understand that we must look at appeals in the department. In its response to the Oslo Racing Festival application, the Riksantikvaren has stated that there are a number of problems related to wind-up driving in an ancient memory area. It is also in the nature of the matter. However, when one has initially authorised the car race, assuming that there is a one-time measure and in a situation where the area is already marked by work, I would like to ask whether it was made clear to the applicants in the first round that one will answer no to a new application, that this must be explicitly said to be a one-time measure, and that one cannot expect permission next year. I believe that I have registered that the Oslo Racing Festival plans this as an annual company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1477	I am not aware of whether it has been made clear to the applicants that they cannot expect permission for a new race next year, but it seems that the representative is sitting with a letter from the Riksantikvaren in front of him and can therefore see what has been said by the Riksantikvaren. But in any case, I would say that any new application will have to be dealt with in accordance with the requirements of the Administrative Act. At least I do not intend to decide here and now on an application that may come at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1482	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. For us who are dedicated to Old Oslo with medieval park, water mirrors and the Medieval Museum, and who are pleased with the great effort that has been made, among other things. through the Environmental City of Old Oslo, it is a bit of a paradox and not so little of a downturn if the area is to become the arena for annual driving. After all, when the car race is up to date, it shows how neglected the area is – that is, it is still there as a construction site, even in the year when Oslo is 1000 years old. I want to ask the Council of State finally whether the Government will now work to get ahead of the work of making the Middle Ages a real way, including the question of the Middle Ages Museum. Can we expect that we will now get ahead of ourselves in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1491	I think I must be allowed to convey the wishes and views of investing in the Middle Ages, and in what way, to the minimum of environmental protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1499	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment a question which will therefore be answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘In Hedmark, 6 486 animals were shot during the last year’s elga. Hedmark thus became Norway’s largest electricity group. However, this area is also proposed for wolfesone, while the wolf population is also increasing. Does the Council of State see the seriousness of this conflict, and what will the Council of State do specifically to ensure that this industry and the natural experience will not be reduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1508	Major predators form an important part of the biodiversity of Norway. The deer are the natural and most important prey of the large predators. The Birds Act’s purpose paragraph states that game production can be harvested for the benefit of agricultural and outdoor activities within a framework in which species wealth in nature is preserved. I'm familiar with the calculations that show that the wolf in Hedmark takes a number of moose that account for the order of 3 pst. the number of persons taxed annually by hunting in the county. I am aware, however, that the impact of the wolf on the field industry is unevenly distributed, and that hunters with hunting grounds in areas where wolf families are involved are heavily affected. The Ministry has started discussions earlier this year, including: Norskog and the Norwegian Forest Association on these issues. This initiative will continue to work with the Ministry, with a view to contributing to solutions that all can live with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1517	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's the elk that's most important in the wolf's mattress. NINA researcher Erling Solberg says that elk is the wolf's main food. The wolf is an effective elk. Research shows that it prefers to take calves and older animals. Wolf is such an effective predator on elk that where there is a lot of wolf, one has to take this into account when determining the moose quotas, and thus it becomes less to hunt for. In Hedmark as in other counties, it is for hunters a separate era, that is, before and after the elk. This is one thing. In order to clarify the problem in Hedmark, the wolf's herrings will represent a loss in the form of fewer moose traps corresponding to an amount of approx. Twenty million. kr, calculated on the basis of 2000 animals and 60 kr per. kilos. These are big values. In addition, the small game hunters do not dare to use the field anymore for hunting, as they are afraid to lose their hunting dogs. Do the Councils see this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1528	I see it as having already confirmed in my main reply that the department saw the problem – on the one hand, that the number of elk taken by the wolf in Hedmark is in the order of 3 pst., but on the other hand that there is a wolf family first, the wolf can take so much moose that there is a problem in the areas concerned. There is also some reason why the Ministry has started discussions with Norskog and the Norwegian Forest Association to try to find a solution to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1535	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Norway’s Bondelag will require the state to compensate the landowners for elk and deer taken by predators, such as wolves. The same is true, for example. Torstein A. Opdahl in the Glommen Forest Geier Association in Hedmark. In my view, it is not possible to combine the wolf and an active use of the field. Doesn't the Council of State see this problem – I ask again – that it is impossible to combine such development with predators, elgae, buff and one with the other?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1544	I think I have to repeat the answer. It can be seen that there is a problem, and that is why you want to have these negotiations with Norskog and the Norwegian Forest Society. But if the representative with the question wants to get the Council of State to say that one sees this problem so that the answer is that we should remove the wolf, then the Council of State does not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1552	This question, from the representative Vidar Kleppe to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1555	I see the need to ask the Minister of Agriculture the following questions, which are happily answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘Bertin Ask will sell its agricultural property to Jan Røyland, this is supported unanimously by the County Agricultural Board of West Agder and Mandal Municipality. The Council of State will therefore take an initiative as soon as possible to waive its right of pre-emption. 99 BN 29 in the municipality of Mandal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1564	On 28 April this year, the Ministry decided to exercise the State’s right of pre-emption by acquiring girth from Jan Røyland. 99 BN 29 in Mandal municipality from Bertin Ask. In deciding on the case, the Ministry took the view that the property has a relatively modest resource base as its own use and that it would lead to significant investments to reestablish self-employment on the site. Therefore, maintaining the property for own use would be unreasonably and cost-effective. I refer in that context to St. pp. No 8 for 1992-93, Developed agriculture, where the need for more cost-effective agriculture is underlined. The same is underlined in St. ermeld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The Ministry further stressed in its decision that land seekers would be able to operate the concession property without any additional investment. One also noted that parts of and in recent years the entire concession property's cultivated land has entered into part of the operating base of his property for 22 years, and that he cannot compensate for the loss of this leased land with leased land near his operating centre. Housing considerations do not apply in this case. I'm pointing out that the population of the Mandal municipality is increasing. The decision of the Ministry promotes the objectives of the Law of the Land and the Law of the Concession and is in line with the rules in force for the determination of pre-emption cases. I therefore find no reason to reconsider the pre-purchase issue in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1582	I must say that I am quite surprised at the answer, also considering St. Report. No 19 which the Government has submitted, stating that the public procurement right is to be abolished. In the local treatment that has been in this case, representatives from the Workers' Party have also supported a voluntary agreement between two people, one who wants to sell and one who wants to buy, both in the county agricultural administration and in the municipality of Mandal. It is a disappointing answer, and I take note that the parties that the Workers' Party stands for do not apply in practice and not to the individual laborer who cultivates the earth and who will get something viable out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1587	I perceive that there was no question, but I will take with me the comments that the representative Kleppe made, back to the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1592	No, it wasn't a question; it was just a statement that the government stands for a completely different policy in practice from what they say they should do, and that they don't respect local decisions, whether it's in the county agricultural board or in the Mandal municipality. I take note of that, but it's sad and there's a bad policy in managing agricultural property. I can't help but notice that the department has taken this decision, although I would like to think of a completely different solution to this. This was why I did not have any follow-up questions to the Council of State, because she was reasonably clear in her rejection, namely that the Council of State would not take the initiative to disapprove of the State's right of pre-emption. 99 BN 29 in the municipality of Mandal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1600	Hopefully, to the satisfaction of the Minister of Justice, I allow myself to ask the professional council the following questions: ‘Some Iranian asylum seekers who convert to Christianity while in Norway appear to be subjected to imprisonment and torture when they return after rejection of the application. This is in addition to any other charges. Can the Council of State order that this be done, and does the Council of State consider that if there is any reason to doubt the position and action of the Iranian authorities in such circumstances, this should be an important reason for granting the asylum application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1609	The Ministry has extensive experience in applications for asylum from persons who convert from Islam to Christianity after they have come to Norway. In practice, it is not that a conversion will automatically receive asylum status or residence permits in Norway. An individual assessment of whether or not he or she is at risk of being persecuted on return to his or her country of origin is carried out. The assessment of the need for protection is in accordance with the normal principles applicable in all asylum cases. In recent years, several converts have been granted asylum or granted a residence permit on a different basis. However, many Iranian and Pakistani converts have been refused their application for asylum and have been returned to their country of origin. Infringements against these have not been reported. The Ministry's knowledge of the situation in Iran suggests that there is no reason to believe that those who are returned to the country are being persecuted. So it's not like converting itself provides a basis for persecution. However, if there is doubt as to whether a person will be subjected to persecution on return to his country of origin, he/she will be granted an asylum or residence permit in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1616	This is a very important fundamental question, because it's about whether we follow up when the asylum seekers return to the country they come from. I have information from various sources to which I have access, which says that people who have converted from Islam into Christian faith are being persecuted when they come home. I can also point out that the Pakistani imam Nehmat Ali Shah in the program «Thanks for Faith and Doubt» on NRK TV in the autumn of 1994 stated that «the one who turns the backs of Islamic society hurts the community and is going to pay for life». So that's the attitude towards a convert — to leave Islam, is to turn the backs of Muslim society. What does the Minister of Justice think about this statement from the imam?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1625	Any statement that does not accept religious freedom is a statement the Council of State cannot agree to. But with regard to the first part of the question, whether converts are being persecuted in Iran when they return, I maintain the answer I have already given, that our experience is that they are usually not, but that an individual assessment has to be made. I can add that the other Nordic countries have the same practice as Norway in terms of converters. In addition, Sweden actually has a more stringent practice than Norway with regard to the return of converts. Of course, we are following as best we can as far as developments in Iran and the treatment of converts are concerned, and are keeping ourselves constantly informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1632	I am concerned about this field and was also when we ourselves were sitting with the government, and I followed the Minister of Justice rather closely in these areas, because there are coming signals and there are reports from cooperating organisations that are in these countries, which can tell us that there are actually persecutions of people who convert – yes, they are at risk of life. Will the Council of State be receptive to information held by Christian organizations and others and evaluate it in dialogue with the parties involved? It is important that we in Norway are not far away and do not have the necessary overview. I am aware that there are many and good lines of communication in different fields. But anyway, it seems like things are happening that the official apparatus is not able to perceive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1639	The institution of asylum depends on the fact that we have as good information as possible about the individual situation and the country from which we are talking about fleeing. And then it is obvious to me that all the information that can contribute to better information on the situation in the country in question and on the asylum seekers for whom we are dealing with the individual cases is of the good. And to the extent that there is information from Christian organisations or others that can provide additional information to the department and the directorate in relation to their treatment of asylum applications, of course, we warmly welcome it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1647	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘Since the autumn of 1999, each police district has had to pay for its own analysis of drug issues. So the Kristiansand police are now taking drugs away, because it costs too much to take the necessary blood and urine tests from suspects. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the police districts get the necessary analyses on drug issues?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1656	It is right that the representative Tor Nymo addresses his question, that the police districts should pay from the current year for the analyses necessary for drug issues. In the past, the Ministry of Justice has paid for these analyses. From 2000 onwards, the budgetary means to cover these expenditures are allocated to the districts. The basis for the conversion of the financial instrument is the principle that the person requesting the service should also pay for it. Thus, until the turn of the year 1999-2000, police districts could incur expenses that they did not themselves have to cover. The change in drug analysis is reflected in the range of actions undertaken to modernise budget management in the EEA, in line with the principles laid down in the State Financial Regulation. I am concerned that the response to drugs must be maintained at a high level, and this is also an area which is a priority in the governance signals provided by the Department to the Police and Lone Court, and which also corresponds to the national attorney’s priorities in criminal proceedings. It must also be the police officers who are responsible for aligning the service with the overall priorities of the ministry and the national lawyer, and that this is done within the budgetary framework conditions provided by the Stortinget. Kristiansand police districts work well in many areas and have many skilled employees. I trust that the police chief will also give high priority to the fight against drugs in the future and that the necessary analyses will be carried out. However, it is the police chief who has to assess the overall allocation of budgetary resources in order to obtain overall the best possible police service in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1667	I thank you for your answer. There is no need to conceal that very many people are deeply concerned about the police's ability to defy serious crime. We have very well-trained and motivated police officers, but that's not enough. In recent years, the police have been given the responsibility to investigate more and more complex issues, and not least the Storting has made quality demands in this work. Adequate financial resources are also needed to obtain the necessary quality of the investigation. The Council of State may, on the basis of, inter alia, signals from: the police in Kristiansand, considering a review of the extra costs involved in the investigation in more serious cases, including: in drug issues where the cost of analysis, interpreting services, etc. is of a completely different size than a few years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1674	I see it as if the representative is asking for an assessment of the budgetary resources for the police action as such, and that the need has increased because the tasks have increased. In that case, I have to refer to the budgetary discussions that come at regular intervals in the Grand Duchy. With regard to the specific coverage of the costs of these analyses, I have to refer to my answer and say that the Ministry of Justice's assessment, which is also in line with the general budgetary principles which are gradually developing both in the state and in the municipality, is that it is better to give the person responsible, here the police district, total responsibility for the budget and to give priority to the budget within the limits given, instead of having earmarked funds. That's what we're talking about in that case. So there may be some very big issues in between, and that's why the Ministry of Justice has some central provisions to use for it. But that's not what it was about here in the Kristiansand police district, here it was about expenditure on individual analyses of drug samples, and such individual analyses are taken from many in every police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1683	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I reacted a little bit when, in his first answer, the Council of State stated that the reason for giving the police district the funds that had previously been centralized was – in a way it was implicit – to force the police chief to be more budget-responsible, not to be able to order tests, and that the department had a pot to pay from. I don't think the police have any desire to spend more money than is necessary to get a thorough investigation, and that's actually what this is all about. I'm afraid the transfer of these funds to the police districts will make the chief of police a different priority, and that we don't get the thorough investigation we need in such cases to have the necessary background material for proper treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1688	The point of my first answer was not to make the police officers more responsible with regard to the budget, i.e. I thought they were not trying to keep the budget framework, but the point was to give them the opportunity to prioritise within the overall framework that is actually to be used by the police. And then, if not in Kristiansand, it may be that in other districts you might have better use of the money that has gone for analysis, for other types of crime control than for precise analysis. It also turns out that there is a very large difference in police districts compared to how much they use for analysis. Kristiansand is among the districts that have been high in the use of analysis, and it may as well have different priorities and different ways of investigating matters, as if there are many more drugs in Kristiansand than in other districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1695	Then we go back to question 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1701	This question from Dag Danielsen to the Minister for Culture has been transferred to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research as the appropriate representative, but will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1704	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State: ‘A clear majority of Oslo City Council members, in the context of the consideration of ‘Strategy and Action Plan on Quality, Diversity and Tradition of Cultural Offer in Oslo’, have been involved in moving Viking ships on Bygdøy to the new medieval museum in Sørenga. Will the Council of State work to achieve this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1713	The Viking ships constitute, as I see it, an important part of the museum area on Bygdøy. There should therefore be serious reasons for moving the mouse from this area. Questions about the relocation of the Viking Ship House were raised in the NOU 1996:7 Museum. Disaster, memory, meeting city. The Viking Ship Museum is part of the Museum of Cultural History at the University of Oslo, and the University expressed in its opinion that they considered a move to be out of date and that they assessed the technical status of the ships and the other collections to be of such a nature that moving would involve risks that it was irresponsible to take. Despite the scepticism expressed by the university, I am well aware that the university is now setting up a working group such as this. shall assess the technical feasibility of moving the Viking ships. Should it be demonstrated that the relocation of Viking ships is technically feasible, I would like to stress the need for an impact assessment with particular emphasis on the cost and museum aspects of such a relocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1724	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is obvious that the technical aspects of the case must be investigated so that this is done in a proper manner, although the information I have indicates that it should be possible to do so. I also fully agree with the Council of State that the economic aspects of this matter should be examined. Otherwise, I thank you for being willing to look at this. And I hope you're willing to go on with it if these two assumptions are acceptable, because this will have an important attraction value for the new medieval museum at Sørenga. Historically, it will also have a more natural place there than on Bygdøy, where it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1733	I am very pleased with the consensus that is between me and the representative, Dag Danielsen, in this field. I can assure you that the Government will look at this in a comprehensive way, that we must also look at it from a museum professional perspective, and that we will not add up to a process that will lead to damage to irreplaceable cultural memories.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1740	We go to question 24.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1747	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs: ‘Some children’s and youth organisations have been exempted from State aid because the Distribution Committee does not approve the degree of democracy in the organisations. Organisations that have adapted to the new legislation, inter alia, by distinguishing the youth organisations from the parent organisations, have also been refused their application by reference to the statutes of the parent organisations. Does the Council of State consider that there is coverage for the Committee's decision on the basis of current legislation and the intentions of the Stortinget?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1756	The current system of grants to children’s and young people’s organisations is based on the suspension of the Stensrud Committee. The committee’s report was sent to the Children’s and Youth Organisations at the hearing before the Ministry of Children and Family presented proposals for a new regulatory framework for the Stortinget in St.meld. No 32 for 1996-97. The proposal was then examined by the Innst Family, Culture and Administrative Committee. S. No 250 for 1996-97. The Ministry of Children and Family then adopted a new regulation on the grant of voluntary organisations for children and young people on 1 July 1997. So this regulation is the result of a very thorough process in which the Storting itself played an active role. It is an important objective of the grant scheme to contribute to participation in society and to training in participation and democracy. This is reflected in the intended purpose, where it appears that the grant scheme will facilitate the participation of children and young people in the children’s and youth organisations. Organisations shall be secured and strengthened as participation and democracy venues and as children’s and young people’s instruments of participation in society. Grants shall also stimulate activity and contribute to organisational diversity. In order to ensure the objective of participation and democracy, organisations receiving support are required to have a democratic structure that ensures that all eligible members who have reached the age of 15 have full democratic rights and equal rights to be elected to the place of trust in the organisation. The size had no comment on this requirement when dealing with the Storing Message. For a transitional period, the regulation has provided for derogations from the requirements so that organisations should be able to adapt to the new rules. The possibilities for exemption are being tightened up and the regulation is fully applicable from the 2002 grant year. The system of grants to children’s and young people’s organisations is managed by the Divisional Committee, which is under the Ministry of Children’s and Family Affairs. In granting aid for 2000, the Distribution Committee has taken a decision that three organisations do not fulfil the democratic structure requirement and are therefore not eligible. The three organisations have filed an appeal against the refusal of the Distribution Committee, and the complaints are now pending in the Ministry. Therefore, I do not think it would be right for me to comment on the content of these complaints until they have been processed in the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1767	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am well aware that the case is subject to review procedures, but since a significant judgement has been exercised in this case, it must also be allowed to put a public searchlight on this judgement. And in this case, it is about independent democratic organisations that have made great efforts to adapt their organisation to the structure required by the legislation. There are today co-determination venues, as the Council of State underlines. It is true that these organisations still have ideological ties to their respective parent organisations, but I see that as positive, and there is no legal requirement, at least not to be placed in Group B, if not to have it. The fact that they have undergone a comprehensive process of becoming independent in relation to the parent organisation, which is in line with the legislation, should well be honoured rather than punished by forcing them into a streamlined A4 structure that is politically correct. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Council agree that it must be an important public task to stimulate such processes rather than punish them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1778	The President will ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1781	I am not afraid that such a complaint will come into a public searchlight, but I find it difficult to address the three issues that are now being dealt with in the department. Of course, organisations may not suffer too much, for example: a discriminatory view of women in adult organisations. At the same time, however, we must look at the legislation that we are all going to live by, and it is my responsibility that it be enforced. The Distribution Committee must also be used. It is true that in some cases – and here are the Christian organisations in majority – there is a formal commitment that youth organisations have included in their statutes that they end up with the principles of the adult organisation, but otherwise have full freedom to also change their statutes. We see that there is a stronger commitment among organisations that have both ideological and organisational ties to the adult organisation. I cannot go further than that, but I will come back to it when we have discussed the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1790	I thank you again for the answer. I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the complaint procedure, but in particular I do think that the Council of State went quite far in suggesting what has been the motive for shutting down some of the organisations, that it is a political judgement that has been exercised. I just want to remind the Council of State, Mr. Bekkemelm Orheim, of a unanimous opinion in the vote on the so-called voluntary declaration last year, of the committee of which the representative, Mr. Bekkemelm Orheim, was a member. They said the following: ‘The Committee would stress the importance of adapting state aid forms and control mechanisms to the various forms of voluntary activity. This is both to capture diversity, the need for financial support at all times and to ensure that control systems are not more comprehensive and bureaucratic than is strictly necessary.» This was rightly said in the context of the new regime that has come, but it has also been said that coordination was needed to ensure that there were as many equal rules across the ministerial borders as possible. Does not the Council of State not see that this decision is in breach of diversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1806	I want to say that I support that majority comment from the committee, but I can't go in and comment on any more of the three individual issues and just have to repeat the answer I gave. But of course we are concerned that we should not be more bureaucratic than necessary, but that we should enforce a regulation that the Storting itself has agreed to, and my responsibility is to make sure that it does. When it comes to the assessment of the three issues, we get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1816	I have this question to the Minister for Children and Family: ‘The Befring Committee proposes an authorisation system for child protection institutions in order to ensure professional and ethical requirements, as the Socialist Left has repeatedly suggested. It is unreasonable that it is more difficult to start a sausage shop than a private establishment for children and young people with severe problems and a vulnerable life situation. When many people know that child protection is in favour of an authorisation scheme, there is a good reason to do so now. Will the Council of State take the initiative in setting up an authorisation scheme as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1825	The representative, Mr Ågot Valle, addresses an important issue concerning a target group on which we need to have a political searchlight. This government is occupied by the weakest children. Children who, for various reasons, have to live in child protection institutions are among those who need us the most. It is also implicit that this government is concerned with the quality of the offer to these children. History has taught us that we need to avoid such institutions becoming closed organizations that the outside world does not get insight into. Then to the Befring Committee and any approval scheme for private institutions. It is correct that the Befring Committee in its recent setting has proposed an authorisation scheme for private institutions. Of course, the Ministry will carefully consider this proposal — like the other proposals and recommendations from the sample. Of course, I am concerned that we should ensure and strengthen the quality of public and private child protection institutions, and the ministry is continuously assessing the appropriate instruments for this. However, it is important that we ensure that institutions maintain a good professional standard all the time, not just at the moment they are established. The fact that the introduction of an authorisation system to date has not been considered an appropriate instrument is linked to the fact that an authorisation system is based on a prior assessment. I agree with the representative, Valle, that it is worrying, as mentioned in her question, if you can start an institution without making any specific demands on content and transparency. Respect for the users of these services requires that we are at all times willing to assess instruments that ensure quality and legal certainty. Unfortunately, we have seen from the media that some institutions are not always operated as we should expect. If we can find good solutions that ensure that an approval system becomes real and not a sleeping cushion, I am willing to review this issue again. We know that the kids this is about may have major behavioral problems, and some people may have made big headway in the community. With the emergence we have had of private child protection institutions, I see a danger that the municipality – because you feel that you have tried everything – sends children to expensive institutions just to get a breathing hole. It is then important to clarify that it is a public responsibility to ensure that there is always a professional basis for such placement. However, in the autumn of 1999, a legislative change imposed a greater responsibility on the county council for private institutions entered into force. The amendment of the law states that, in order to make use of a private institution, the county council – and the municipality – must examine whether the institution operates in accordance with the law and regulations, i.e. that it operates properly. This provision presupposes that the county council – and the municipality – continuously monitor the activities of the institution and ensures that the institution has a professionally good offer to the child in question before the placement takes place. This responsibility is therefore not limited to a prior assessment, as an approval system could have been. With the support of the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, a project has also been carried out in all county municipalities in 1998-1999 to identify all private institutions used by the county. The aim is to close down those institutions which do not pursue professional and legal security objectives. The result is now in the form of an obligatory cooperation agreement. The agreement lays down a number of conditions which relate to content, quality and professional standards. Without such a cooperation agreement, an institution will not be used. The Ministry considers that such a cooperation agreement operates in many ways as a form of authorisation mechanism and that it respects the objective of ensuring the quality and legal certainty of the paediatric population located in private institutions. Thus, although there is currently no authorisation system for institutions, there are no rules and arrangements to ensure that institutions are properly operated so that children and young people living in private institutions are given the best possible care and treatment. But, of course, I will carefully consider what new measures can be taken to do this even better. Then an authorisation system can be a possible tool, and then I will come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1846	I thank you for your answer. That was a good answer, and I perceive it so that the Council of State is now drifting on this question. It is a long step both in relation to what the Workers' Party has said earlier, and in relation to what previous government councils have said. I fully agree that an approval system is not a segregated system to achieve good quality, but it is one important prerequisite for getting good quality and preventing anyone from opening up a child protection institution, as it is today. Anyone can actually do that, and as long as the county councils are given the private solutions because they don't have enough space on their own, you can risk young people being placed in an institution that isn't good enough, as long as we don't have this authorisation scheme. I remember that, for example. kindergartens have an authorisation scheme. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether she sees any fundamental reasons not to deal with this matter very, very quickly and not wait until the Befring committee has been out at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1855	I am very pleased that the representative Ågot Valle is satisfied with the answer I gave. In the work we do in this field, at least I'm concerned that we're going to get a good quality of institutions. Then we can't be conservative in form, we have to use every opportunity to give the kids the best possible offer. And if an approval system can be involved and contribute to it, of course, I'll be open to it. When it comes to the procedure, I ask for an understanding that I have to get back to it. The Befring committee presented its report last week, and I feel that I need to spend a little more time looking at the whole report. But I can assure the representative that this government is committed to making an offer that is best available in this field, and then we will consider possibly returning to an approval system separately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1864	I thank you again for the answer. The reason why I challenge the Council of State to try to see this slightly detached from the Befring Committee is that this is a proposal that has been up to discussion over and over again. So now the Befring committee comes and suggests it. In the past, it has been supported by the Children’s Ombudsman, it has been supported by the Joint Organisation for Child Protection Educators, Sosionists and Protective Caregivers, i.e. those who have knowledge of the situation in the field, and also the support of Saved Barna. So there shouldn't be any reason why this can't be seen in isolation and done quickly, because these kids who are at risk of being misplaced, and who may be subjected to abuse because they are placed in an institution that isn't good enough, don't have one day to lose. That's why there's one thing that's very urgent, next to getting a real quality of what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1871	I just want to repeat the answer I gave instead. I can't really say anything more. Of course, I want to look at the possibilities of taking out individual parts of the Befring committee report, but I think the most appropriate thing now is to get a good review even of this, and see if there can also be different things that you can come back to the Storting before going out on a wide consultation round. There may be things that are so obvious that it may require decisions quickly, if that may be possible, but I ask for understanding that I will come back to a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1881	This question, from Shahbaz Tariq to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1884	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘The test period for the new CRL subject ends in the current school year. Since the introduction of the CRL subject in 1997, protests have flowed. Teacher organisations have spoken out against the new subject. So far, parents have demonstrated against the subject several times. The bishop of Oslo has appealed to the authorities to take these protests seriously. What will the Council of State do with the subject, so that students from religious minorities feel fair about religious freedom in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1893	The idea behind the CRL subject is that the students should be together across religious and life views when working on religious and ethical topics. In the past, the students went to their own rooms when they were going to work on these questions, which little promoted tolerance and respect across the boundaries of faith and life. The aim of the subject has therefore been to be open and to contribute to understanding, respect and dialogue across the limits of faith and life, and to promote understanding and tolerance on religious and moral issues. The trade is an ordinary school subject and should not provide training for faith but provide knowledge of faith and outlook. No religion or view of life shall be presented as better or more true than others, and no religion or view of life shall be discriminated against. Religion shall be presented on the basis of its peculiarity. In this subject, the students are meant to be better acquainted with their own beliefs and to learn about other religions and the way they live, so that they can be helped to live with different faiths. Since Christianity has had a special position in our country, it is the Christian knowledge that has been given the greatest place in the CRL field. There is too large a room for local action in the organisation of the teaching of the subject. Furthermore, deviations from the main elements of the curriculum are open when training in the subject is still suitable to achieve the common objectives of the subject and the objectives of the main stage. In addition, students have the right to exemption from ‘parts of the individual school education they experience from their own religion or from their own view of life as the practice of another religion or association with other views of life’. The majority has asked for an evaluation of the subject and the right to exemption. The evaluation of the subject has been abandoned to the Norwegian Research Council. I have been informed by the evaluation will be completed by 15 October this year. The evaluation will make it clear if the intentions behind the subject are realised. Furthermore, the evaluation could provide an indication of the need for change. I will therefore await the evaluation of the subject before considering any need for changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1904	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I mean, the Christian purpose paragraph violates the principles of an inclusive school. It seems exclusive when one religion is preferred to others. The Christian purpose paragraph must therefore be removed. The CRL in school is still perceived as a Christian subject. Many teachers teach in the field as before, even though the guidance emphasizes that all religions and views of life are to be presented in the same way. This is becoming increasingly important for children to gain an understanding of the cultural diversity of our society. We must not act in such a way that it becomes a we and de-thinking vis-à-vis minorities, where the majority manages the right values to which the majority should draw minorities. I believe that the KRL subject should be replaced by a neutral religious and ethical discipline. Until this happens, full exemption must be granted, with a full alternative to the CRL subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1911	I noticed that in the supplementary question there is an attempt to draw conclusions from the evaluation. As I said in the main reply, the evaluation of the subject will be completed in October this year. It is therefore important to stress that the evaluation of the subject is intended to identify the need for change. I don't think it would be right for me to try to advance the results of the evaluation right now. The issue addressed in the supplementary question will be a natural part of the evaluation. In any case, it is important for the Government to respect our international commitments in this area. In this context, I also think it is important to remember that the Training Act § 2-4 emphasises that the KRL subject should be an ordinary school subject, and that education in the subject should not be a public service. Then I have to agree with the representative that we must not add up to a we and de-thinking in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1940	These questions fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1946	This question, from the representative John Dale to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be answered by the Minister for Children and Family Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Church, Education and Research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1949	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Church, Education and Research the following questions to be answered by another Council of State: ‘The media and communication course is intended to start up the upcoming fall, but because time is short, it may be difficult to prepare the implementation in a fully-fledged way. There is also reason to fear that media literacy in the AA field of study is becoming harmful. What kind of continuing education plans do the KUF have for the teachers who will be teaching in the new direction of study, and can the Council of State do well to ensure that the new basic course does not replace but comes in addition to a further commitment to the media in the general field of study?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1958	During the examination of the budget on 10 December 1998, the Stortinget Ministry asked to establish a basic course in media and communication. The establishment of new curricula is a comprehensive process involving both relevant industries and organisations. Although the ministry has had maximum pressure on this process, this work will not be completed before once in the summer. This is what the Ministry has informed Stortinget about in the past. At present, the Ministry's draft curriculum for consultation with the relevant bodies, with a deadline of 26 May. It is the county that is responsible for establishing the offer in schools. As far as the department is aware today, almost half of the county councils will offer the new basic course in the autumn of 2000. In the light of the current draft curriculum, the Ministry started work on continuing training for teachers in the field of education in basic education and communication in the first week of April. A working group consisting of professionals from the various disciplines covered by the curriculum has assessed the necessary training measures. They have given advice to the Ministry on the content and extent of continuing training. In the light of the advice given, the Ministry will, in a short time, determine the content and extent of the training and thereafter ensure that the necessary measures are implemented promptly. The county councils will be informed as soon as the decision on the content and extent of the training is taken. The second part of the question by the representative Dale relates to the relationship between the new direction of study of media and communication and the media currently located in the directions of study of the general, economic and administrative subjects. The Ministry has not yet taken a decision on this matter. Such a decision will only be taken when the secondary education syllabus I and secondary education II are ready for media and communication. Whether there is a need for two different training courses in the two directions of study, or whether a training course is to be developed with modules that can be used both places, it is too early to take a stand. What is clear is that the system we have today in the field of general, economic and administrative education will continue until the final decisions on curricula in the direction of media and communication are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1967	I thank the Council of State for your answer. I asked a two-way question to the Council of State, and I am very pleased with the answer I received to the first of the questions I raised. When it comes to the second question, which is clearly the most important one, I understand that the turmoil that is taking place in this area, and which arises from the fact that the situation is unexplained, will still prevail. I'm actually sorry about that, because I think there's a lot of good arguments to suggest that there's going to be some kind of media in the general field of study. One argument I would particularly like to make is that the general course of study will be able to give students a comprehensive background for future journalism education and work, a consideration that the basic course in media and communication does not follow to the same degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1976	Although it may now be tempting for the Council of State to try an answer, I think I should be a little careful since the field does not belong to this Council of State's field to daily. But I refer to my answer and I also feel the need to say that it won't be so that what we're now adding is going to have a retrospective effect, because the students who are starting a course are going to be able to continue with what they've initially started on. The Department will work closely on this. And that representative was now concerned about his follow-up question, I know that the Minister of Education will follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1981	As a result, we have completed the handling of case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-10.ana.ud84e1990	There is no record available.
