ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e22	It is a pleasure to recommend the ratification of ILO Convention No. 182 of June 1999 on the prohibition and immediate abolition of the worst forms of child labour. An overall committee is behind this. What's bad is that such a convention is necessary. Article 3 of the Convention defines the worst forms of child labour. The Convention is available as Appendix 1 to St.prp. No 79, and I quote from Article 3: ‘For the purposes of this Convention, the term ‘worst forms of child labour’ shall include: a. all forms of slavery or relationships and procedures related to slavery, such as the sale and trade of children, indebtedness, vigor and forced or compulsory work, including forced or compulsory recruitment of children for use in armed conflict; use, generation or provision of children for prostitution, for the production of pornography or for pornography, c. use, generation or provision of children for illegal acts, in particular for the production and trafficking of drugs, as defined in the relevant international agreements, d. work which, by reason of its nature or the circumstances in which it is carried out, may be detrimental to the health, safety or morals of the child.» The term ‘children’ after the Convention shall mean all under 18 years of age. This means that changes need to be made to the Safeguards Act. In Ot.prp. No 61 for 1999-2000 on the Act amending the Law on Home Security and the Law on Obligations of Protection, proposes the necessary amendments. Certain changes to the criminal law must also be made. In Ot.prp. No 28 for 1999-2000 on the law amending the criminal law, etc. [[sexual offences]] proposals were put forward, involving a more stringent ban on the possession of child pornography. In addition to a general ban on the production and transfer of child pornography to others, it is proposed here to make it a criminal offence to persuade a few under 18 years of age to be pictured as part of the commercial production of images with sexual content and to criminalise the production of such productions where some under 18 years of age are depicted. The size has already dealt with this. Implementation of the Convention is not expected to have an administrative or economic impact of importance. Per. 15 countries ratified the Convention. A rapid ratification is an important signal internationally. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e60	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e74	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e88	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e102	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e116	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e130	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e139	: St. pp. No 52 for 1999-2000, about NSB Gardermobanen AS, and follow-up of NOU 1999:28 The Gardermo project deals with two cases. One is the story of the Gardermo project, both track and airport, the other is about the future of the flight. Let me start with the story, that is. follow-up of NOU 1999:28. The background to the case is that in May 1998, the Bondevik government appointed a selection to carry out a broad review of the development of the Gardermoban and Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Work should cover both the planning phase and the deployment phase, and should focus on decision-making processes, responsibilities, organisation of work, financial estimates, cost management, quality procedures and information flows. Particular attention should be paid to environmental aspects. The committee presented its report in September last year. The majority of the Committee, all except the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, believe that there is a lack of and insufficient planning of the Gardermoban. In particular, the problems associated with winter operations and the consideration of groundwater indicate that there have also been some misassessments in aerodrome planning. The deviations between the cost estimates for the Gardermoban presented to Stortinget and the final cost figures are unacceptable. Putting the sample down was both important and correct. It is essential that we learn from the mistakes that have been made. The evaluation committee produced a report of around 350 pages. We know that the exceedances have been large. No matter how one rains, they're in the billions class. We also know how much interest there has been in the problems with, among other things. Rome Sports. Therefore, it is a bit surprising and a little worrying that the Government considers it sufficient to limit the main conclusions of the sample and its own assessment of these questions to six and a half pages. The Labour Party says in its own note that they will not ‘detail the problems that have taken place, but now sees it as the most important thing that in later development projects one has learned from the miscircumcisions taken during the Gardermout construction’. With the review provided by the Government of the evaluation team, I am far from reassured by the fact that errors cannot be made again. There are a number of important points in the conclusions of the evaluation team that should have been mentioned. However, the evaluation team’s report has already been part of the basis for the treatment of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The decision has been taken to set up a separate investigation commission to carry out a broad review of the investigation, planning, design and development of new main aerodromes in the east and the Gardermoban. The same majority of the Committee noted that ‘Possible constitutional consequences... will be assessed when the Stortinget receives this review report from the Committee of Inquiry’. Since the matter will be dealt with in Stortinget later, I will now only go into some important points. The evaluation committee concludes that the organisation of development as an AS has been at the limit of the formally acceptable but that the organisational form is still to be recommended. The evaluation committee recommends that the quality of transport economic research should be strengthened, and the Committee asks the Government to provide an assessment of this need in the national transport plan. The evaluation committee also points to a problem related to any payment for the use of publicly funded infrastructure, for example: road tax in the railway sector. The majority, all except the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, promote proposals and ask the Government to provide an assessment of how to organise the production and pricing of services exploiting fixed installations, with particular emphasis on the railway sector. From the Christian People's Party we think this is interesting to be evaluated. Among other things, it will provide the NSB with a better negotiating situation and greater opportunity to influence the priorities of the railway network if payment for the use of the road is an important part of the railway network’s revenue base. For us, however, it is totally inappropriate to introduce such a road tax without at the same time strengthening the NSB accordingly. The evaluation committee also points to the risk of strategic budgeting. Many who are part of the process before final decision in Stortinget have an interest in the realisation of the project they are working on. It is critical that the department does not actually mention this issue in the proposition. So to the NSB Gardermobanen AS. The cost evolution of the NSB Gardermobanen AS has been a long and expensive story. The investments initially estimated at 4 600 million. NOK 8,249 million. kr. In addition, investments in trains, operational arrangements and deficits in the first two years of operation are included. A majority – all except the Workers' Party and SV – believe that the exceedances show that planning has not been good enough. Unfortunately, operating costs are also greater than planned. This is linked, for example, to: operation of IT systems, increased maintenance costs and increased number of service staff. In addition, the estimates for the market share of the air train were very optimistic. An overall committee assumes that the company will continue to work to reduce both the maintenance costs and the operating costs, also related to the IT systems. The majority consider that there is reason to ask questions by the fact that there is a guarantee period of two years for materials with an estimated life span of at least 20 years. The fact that an accepted shorter warranty period to have the train sets developed and delivered faster does not seem to be a very good explanation. One of the reasons for increased operating costs is that the air train is required to have service staff on all departures. The company planned departures without service staff in departures with a few travellers. If the Ministry has indicated that such a crew would not be approved, it is critical that they have presented at the same time estimates of the operating costs of the Storting where such a low crew has been part of the basis. The Ministry proposes in its proposal that the infrastructure, including the terminal on OSL, be transferred to the Railway Agency and that the Railway Agency take over the guarantee liability relating to owners of dwellings in Hellerud. This ends up with an overall committee. The majority, all except the Right, also joins the NSB BA taking over the terminal at Oslo S. However, an overall committee requests that the Ministry of Transport of the Ministry of Transport of the National Transport Plan assess the transfer of stations owned by NSA BA to the Railway Agency. At the same time as the infrastructure is transferred to the Railway Agency, it is proposed to cancel liabilities to the NSB Gardermobanen AS of 6 711 million. kr, and that NSB BA shoots in at 669 million. kr in equity of Flytoget AS. This is supported by the majority, all except the Advance Party. So to the future organisation of the Flytrain. The Government has proposed that the Fly train remain a State owned company 100 pst. owned by NSB BA. From the center sides, we're not going to hide that we've been in doubt if this is the right solution. We are very concerned that the Aerodrome should have a free and independent role, with the possibility of its own development. The majority, all except the Workers' Party and SV, also emphasise that the flight must be an integral part of the aerodrome and flight – and not part of the general collective offer in the Oslo region. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have therefore long assessed whether we should propose that the company be made a state owned company, placed directly under the Ministry of Transport. When we finally land on the government's proposal, there are a number of assumptions. These are set out in majority comments together with the Workers' Party. It is important that the assumptions are followed up. I assume, of course, that majority comments and Roman number decisions are taken seriously. The majority have argued that Flytogen AS is granted a very high degree of autonomy and freedom for its development. The organisation of ownership must not prevent the air train from being placed on the market as a stand-alone offer. The organisation as a subsidiary must also not prevent the Fly train from making its arrangements based on what serves the Fly train, regardless of what it means for the NSB group. The majority have assumed that any surplus on the flight train will be made visible. This is not least important in view of the large-scale cancellation of debts that have been carried out and that people are most concerned about — and have strong opinions about. The majority assume that the Aerodrome is free to assess offers from suppliers within the NSB group for offers from other suppliers and also assumes that the Airtrain has the freedom to assess any group contracts against other offers. We decide today to cancel a debt of NOK 6.7 billion. If there is a surplus on the Fly train, the base of the investments is the State. In the case of the centre lots, it is essential that any surplus be able to reduce the cost of the development. The majority, the central parties and the Workers' Party have therefore assumed that the Ministry has facilitated this before the transactions relating to the cancellation of debt and the creation of equity are carried out. The same majority have proposed that the Flytrain be organised as a subsidiary of NSB BA with a high degree of freedom, in line with the comments, and that the organisation be reviewed in two years’ time. The Christian People's Party is very concerned with railway policy. We want a strong and viable NSB with very good train offers – train offers that with frequency, punctuality, comfort and not least top service should lead to people even stronger than now prioritizing trains over their own car, or even planes. This is important for both road safety and the environment. The Christian People's Party therefore points to the positive mutual competition between a more independent flight and NSB BA's other offers, so that the overall train offer is getting better and better. Christian People's Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e200	The size proposition we are dealing with today is both about valuations, proposals for balance sheets and proposals for the reorganisation of the NSB Gardermoban, and about the follow-up to the so-called Mudsk Committee, which was tasked with evaluating the planning and implementation of both the Gardermoban and Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Let me start with the last, i.e. evaluation of the Gardermo project, in this context mainly limited to the Gardermoban. In my opinion, the majority of the Committee on Transport – SV and the Workers’ Party are not involved – go far in drawing conclusions from the Mudsk Committee in its evaluation report. This is remarkable because the same parties in the control committee and in the Stortinget were not able to draw any conclusions on the Gardermo project recently and therefore decided to set up a new investigation commission. Let me quote what the Centre Parties, the Advance Party and the Right said in the vote of the Control Committee: ‘These members refer to the fact that it has not been possible, either through the hearings or in the work of the Committee, to obtain satisfactory answers to essential questions relevant to the assessment of responsibilities and causality.’; Further: ‘These members therefore consider that there will be a need for further examination of this matter in addition to the work already revealed by the work of the Committee and the consultations carried out in this respect.’.» In the position we have today before the Committee on Transport, on the other hand, the same parties go a long way towards drawing conclusions. They say, among other things:\t\t You ‘The majority consider such an organisation of the decision-making process to be the basis for large-scale development projects.’ They also say, ‘Together with the large exceedances associated with the deployment of the infrastructure, this shows that the entire Gardermobane project has been too poorly planned.’ What we've witnessed in the last few weeks in connection with the expansion of the main airport and the Gardermoban is a political game. While the bourgeois parties in the control committee were unable to do anything, and thus the mandate of the Bondevik government gave the Mydske Committee by setting up a new commission, the same parties in the transport committee are therefore clear in several areas as regards what should have been done differently. So one believes today that the calculations that were made prior to the extension decisions were too poor. However, I think that today's majority should read the letter of former Minister of Transport Dørum, who was in the central government – and I just underline what government he was in – wrote to the National Audit Office on 13 March 1998: ‘In the view of the Ministry of Transport, the Stortinget was given sufficient and relevant information on the basis of the Government’s recommendation on the development of Gardermoen and Gardermobanen.’ Timely by a wise man! The center parties should listen more to Odd Einar Dørum. The working party does not want to minimize in any way the errors that have been made during the construction of the Gardermoban. Things have happened that clearly should not have happened. The most important thing we can do now is learn from these mistakes. Moreover, since the decision to build the Gardermoban was taken in 1992, several assumptions have changed. There is a big point made by the majority that there is a smaller proportion of air passengers driving trains than what was planned. Yes, it is. But then we have to be aware at the same time that the calculations at that time were based on the fact that there were no express buses going to and from the Gardermo. In retrospect, one departed from this principle and allowed express buses – with the blessing of the Storting. The result of that is that one has a total collective share of beyond 60 pst, at the lower edge of 40 pst. on trains and about 20 pst. on a bus. It is quite certain that if there had not been buses to Gardermoen, many of these had 20 pst. instead of train taken. The joy of today's situation is that Gardermoen is world-class in terms of the share that travels collectively to and from the airport. Then to the future of the Fly train and the Gardermoban. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we now ensure a high socio-economic return on the significant investments that have really been made, and that we stick to the ambitious objective of maximising the use of trains and other collective means of transport to and from Gardermoen. In order to achieve this, large parts of the liabilities of the NSB Gardermobanen AS have to be written off. The majority of the population agrees with this. In addition, I see it as crucial that the majority today determines that the flight train should be 100 pst. NSB. The flight will then become a subsidiary of the NSB group. But at the same time, the majority, which is made up of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, believe that the Flytrain should be guaranteed a high degree of freedom and seaworthiness. The flight train is special and shall also be special in the future. The organisation will be reviewed in two years' time. There is also a majority for the Gardermoban infrastructure to be transferred to the Railway Station and thus included as part of the other national network. That's good. At the same time, it is essential that the Gardermoban has a top technical standard, so that the flight train keeps the timetable – every 10 minutes in both directions. In order to achieve this, the Fly train and NSB’s regular trains using the Gardermoban have to pay a fee of 81 million. kr annually to the Railway Agency. This shall be done to ensure funds for the operation and maintenance of the track. The share of NSB’s ordinary trains shall pay to the Railway Works of these 81 million. SEK, hereinafter referred to as 19 million. kr per year, while the NSB paid SEK 31 million. kr for its 1999 trains. I would like to point out here what the majority of people said in the budget procedure before Christmas, and as the majority of the committee repeats today, about ticket prices and train offers. The fee to be paid by the NSB for maintenance on the Gardermoban will be paid to the seventh and last of the travellers in the form of more expensive tickets. So far, everything sounds fine. The problem is that many have not improved the travel offer. This is especially the case on the Kongswingerbahn. I'm asking the Minister of Transport to notice what the majority of people here are saying. It's not to be misunderstood. The Ministry, together with the NSB, must find a solution for the Kongswingerbahn. It is not acceptable for travellers to pay for a product they do not receive. As long as people do not have a shorter travel period, they will not pay extra. By the fact that the fee payable by the NSB for the use of the Gardermoban is now down to 19 million. kr, it must be possible to sort this out in a simple and straightforward way. So finally, from the decision to build the Gardermoban in 1992, there have been many cuttings in the sea. Many have been the ones who have been alarmed by scandals and disasters. And a lot of problems have been. In retrospect, however, I am pleased that the bulk of the population for eight years was so far-sighted that they decided to build the track. One might imagine what the situation would have been like today without the Gardermoban. We are due to deal with Oslopackak 2 later today, where new double tracks west of Oslo and south of Oslo are included. Had not the Gardermobanen had been built, we also had to have built new double tracks north of Oslo. We will not, because that double track is already entirely from Eidsvoll – and thank you for that!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e258	The Progress Party will recall that we voted against Mr Gardermoen and Mr Gardermobanen in the Storing Session 1992-93. We will also refer to our proposals, Document No. 8:99 for 1997-98 and Document No 8:70 for 1998-99, and our comments in the setting of St.meld. No 31 for 1998-99. The Progress Party has consistently maintained that Gardermobanen AS should raise its capital from the private market. The extension of the track itself was in St.prp. No 90 for 1991-92 estimated at 4 600 million. kr. Now you can see that it has cost approx. 10 billion kroner to realize the flight train from Asker to Gardermoen. In addition to the costs of the connection track to Eidsvoll, the price tag is NOK 8.3 billion. The state has already given up a loan of NOK 1.7 billion, which the Progress Party voted against. The government is now proposing to cancel another NOK 6.7 billion of the debt. In this case, the party to the progress finds reason to criticise governance, progress and economics, as well as the overview and control of the project, and does not consider indebtedness as a solution for a proper assessment of the investments made at Gardermoen. If the Workers' Party still sees the Gardermoban as Norway's most profitable track, it is difficult to see the light at the end of the tunnel for the rest of the network. If there's a light there, it's probably an opposite train. By comparison, the Progress Party will refer to Stockholm's flowing new flights, Arlanda Express. Although it has fewer passengers and the company has not been paid off, it is nevertheless profitable. In Sweden, the Riksdagen did not agree to grant money for the construction of the flight from Stockholm Centre to Arlanda. Instead, private initiators managed to get a consortium of five companies to make up the necessary money. The development was implemented in accordance with the original budget of NOK 4.5 billion. On 25 November last year, Arlanda Express was put into operation. Arlanda Express and the Norwegian flight are strikingly similar if one ignores the ‘normal’ flight from Asker to Oslo S. The journey time from the centre to the aerodrome is approximately 20 minutes, and the distance is about 20 minutes. five miles. On the way, a few tunnels pass. The ticket costs the same as the Norwegian. The big difference is that one train is profitable, the other one is not. Arlanda Express expects to go into plus next year. Six months after the launch, Arlanda Express carries 13 pst. by travellers to and from the aerodrome. Next year, the proportion shall be up to 20 pst. By comparison, the Flytrain claims that they had a market share of 34 pst. last year. Today, Arlanda Express carries 7000 – 8000 passengers each day, and the number increases by 1000 per person. week. In 2001, they are expected to carry 4,2 million passengers, corresponding to 11000 – 12000 per. day, which will give an acceptable return on the capital invested. The flight carried 4,1 million passengers last year, and this year the target is 4,6 million. It is very close enough to remunerate an investment of approx. 10 billion kroner. In the view of the evaluation team, it may be entirely excluded that the Gardermoban, with or without the extension to Eidsvoll, can become an economically viable business project. If the government's proposal to cancel NOK 6.7 billion goes through in Stortinget, the Flytog is left with a loan of NOK 1.1 billion in addition to equity of SEK 700 million. kr. In the future, in other words, the airline only needs to pay a balance of DKK 1.8 billion to go with profits, while Arlanda Express has to pay for the entire investment of NOK 4.5 billion. The study by the evaluation team calls it done, and the food has been eaten! Well, the conclusion of the Progress Party is: Let's not eat anymore! The Gardermobanen AS is a limited liability company and should be set up accordingly. If the company is unable to serve its debts, the company is insolvent and obliged to report bankruptcy. Against this background, the Progress Party will vote against the proposal in the Proposition on additional grants to the Gardermobanen of public funds or debt cancellation. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Progress Party and the Right, which are included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e286	The representative Stensaker has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e289	Then is the judgment's day here, when – the evaluation time of the Workers' Party and former Wraith representative, later State Council, Sissel Rønbeck's statement that the Gardermoban would be Norway's most profitable railway project. It was then said that this would be a company-based economical project, and that the State would receive a return on invested capital of approx. 7.5 pst. In 1995, the Stortinget decided to extend the Gardermoban to Eidsvoll. The extension would cost NOK 1.4 billion and marginally weaken the business profitability of the Gardermoban. The development of the infrastructure would cost approx. 4.6 billion, but got a final sum of 7.5 billion. This does not give a true picture of the calculation, because in addition, NOK 1.5 billion is spent on material interest costs of DKK 1.2 billion, on land acquisition costs and on value added costs of approx. One billion kroner. So you're going to have a total total of about 1 billion dollars. NOK 11 billion. When one sees this sum and at the same time knows that the Flytrain is unable to operate in the vicinity of this debt, it underlines that the assumptions suggested by the Stortinge were beyond realism by the Labour Party Government in 1992. In addition, when one knows that, in my opinion, the Mystery report reveals that the necessary knowledge relating to calculation methods was available when the decision was taken, the credibility of those who did the calculation at the time would be zero. The use of these models would show that the Gardermoban was a bad project for the economy. Of course, why the available knowledge was not used may speculate on, but it is the other thing to reveal. I expect the recognition that the Gardermoban was a bad project, as it begins to report. Then we might not be able to hear that there were media fans, environmentalists and PR-minded politicians who caused chaos in the sports of Rome, and that it was the same politicians who later decided that buses should be allowed to drive to the airport, which is the real cause of the economic disaster. Because that's not true. The truth is that all exceedances in Norwegian traffic are being made like ripples at sea in relation to the Gardermoban. Then you can ask yourself if someone has stood up and taken responsibility for the biggest scandalous project in Norway's history in the field of transportation. To that the answer is so far no. In 1995, the Right warned against extending the route from Gardermoen to Eidsvoll because the Right believed that this part would weaken the project financially. No one would listen to it. The ministry wrote in strong pen the following: ‘The Ministry of Transport will point out that the extension of the Gardermoen-Eidsvoll route leads to a marginal deterioration in the economic performance of the enterprise. Overall, the return on the Oslo-Eidsvoll route is very good.» It must be permitted to say that, after this, the use of the word ‘good’ by the Ministry has acquired a very special meaning for me. So now the bill is on the table, even in part, for NOK 1.7 billion of the «marginal impairment» of the Gardermoban has already been written off by the majority. This, of course, contributes to the appearance of a somewhat thinner result, but it does not change the reality: this project was not near being profitable either. Right-wing target for the treatment of St.prp nr. 52 is the best way to ensure that the state – read: taxpayers – receives as much as possible for the investments made in the Gardermoen at the premises laid at that time. The objective of the Right is not primarily to strengthen the NSB BA, the Railway Agency or other actors, but to ensure that, in the future, a profitable flight will enter the state fund to cover the debt that we are depreciating today, i.e. to maximise the achievement of what is left of the objective underlying the original decision on the construction of the track. In that context, there are some relationships that we think will affect it. Of course, it is efficient operation, efficient maintenance and professional ownership of the Gardermobanen/Fly train. Right-wing accepts that the infrastructure is added to the Railway Agency, but would stress that regularity and punctuality are essential for the competitiveness of the Aerodrome and thereby for market shares and performance. It requires a high-quality infrastructure. In order to ensure such quality, the Gardermoban should have a special status in relation to the other railway system infrastructure. The right considers that it is best to ensure that the Gardermoban is rented back to Flytrain AS, which is responsible for the route on a long-term contract. In such an organisation, the Right believes that a best person will ensure that, for example: the road charge goes to the Gardermoban and the Fly train and not to the other railway station infrastructure. That is what is proposed in the vote on the motion for a resolution. On the right, it would point out that the forecasts for growth in air traffic include a greater proportion of holiday and leisure trips and that the airline has a lower market share in that market segment. This creates uncertainty about the revenues of the Airtrain and allows the future to face significant challenges for the profitability of the Airtrain. I repeat, therefore, that the Right objective is to make Flytoget AS a company that primarily aims to operate efficiently and efficiently. It requires effective ownership that is concerned with just profitability. The right considers that it is best to do so by adding the entire company to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and also suggests it. Through this, the Right would stress that this company should not be a support function for NSB BA but a company to operate the carriage of passengers to and from Gardermoen airport and then as an integral part of the aerodrome. Right-wing fears that another organisation will easily transform the Flytrain into a normal means of public transport, which is thus subject to completely different criteria than profitability. The right would stress that investments in the Gardermoban are initially to be paid in full by those travelling on the track. Therefore, the right considers that anyone who uses the Gardermoban road will pay for the route they use, in order to cover some of the costs incurred by the infrastructure to the large community. In the event of a derogation, the result may be that in the future the Flytrain will become a subsidy hatch for which the rest of Norway will have to pay. The right will further point out that one considers it unreasonable for a company to operate the Gardermoban to be in control of the station – in this context we are talking about the NSB, if that is the solution. This may give NSB BA a competitive advantage over other companies operating on the track. Therefore, the right part of the railway system’s view is that all stations along the main track, including the Oslo S air train terminal, are to be transferred to the railway station. On the right, we would point out that we are facing liberalisation of the railway, where the road will be opened up to other actors, and that NSA BA will have competition on the track. On the right, the Committee welcomes the fact that the Committee calls for this issue to be discussed in the context of the national transport plan. The right does not conceal that we also want the Flytog AS, when it is economically reasonable and justifiable, to be privatised and that any income from such a process should enter the state treasury – income to cover the expenses incurred by the big community, with the assumptions underlying it when we decided to build the track. It is also proposed by the right. With this, I address the proposals that the Right Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e336	The representative of Nilsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e339	Again, the Storting debated a matter of concern to the Gardermobana. Postponing the completion of Gardermobana, problems with leaks in Rome's sport, and matters relating to the economy of this project have been the repeaters in the debate on transportation of the existing landfill period. After one year of operation of the Flytrain, it has also been known that, in addition to the large overruns in the case of development costs, the operating costs are well above the original estimates and the market share of the flight is lower than expected. All the experience gained in retrospect shows that, at best, the leaders who were taken into account in the planning and implementation process must have been very optimistic. Or, in plain terms, the Gardermobane project has been too badly planned. I expect that the investigation commission that Stortinget has seen down will provide us with answers to many of the questions that might be asked about the planning work. We need answers to the questions in order to learn from what has happened. Of course, we can also say that once the Gardermobana is there, this is a good offer for passengers. But as politicians, we can't just put a line on what's happened in advance, when we see today that most of the institutions that were at the root of the expansion are proving to be wrong. The NSB Gardermobanen AS is currently in a situation where the operating costs are higher than expected, and the revenues are lower than expected, so that the Gardermobana goes under, even if the loan debt is held out. When the situation is like that, I don't see that we have so many options, except to erase the debt. Given that the expansion of Gardermobana is financed by the state having contributed the NSB Gardermobana AS capital in the form of ordinary loans and responsible loans, I do not think it would be a good solution to let Gardermobana go bankrupt. The hopeless economic situation in Gardermobana would have been well visible in bankruptcy, but the state would not have been covered by any of the loans given to Gardermobana. On the contrary, bankruptcy would cost not only economic but also poor reputation. This would not have been the fly train lit. The centre party will therefore support the proposal for the cancellation of debts. But I have to add that I understand the reactions of a lot of people around the country when one of these travel projects with a pen stroke can erase $6.7 billion in debt, without affecting inflation. At the same time, for example: many areas of toll companies with poor finances and road users have to live with increasingly high toll rates in order for toll companies not to go bankrupt. Even with the cancellation of the flight's debts, it turns out, as I've already mentioned, that the flight will not be left with excess in the next few years with the operating costs that are today. The Committee has been aware that the flight train is working to reduce operating costs. Experience from one year of operation of the Flytrain shows that the basic work on the operating side has not been well enough. Access to operational experience from high-speed rail in other countries should provide a basis for better estimates of maintenance costs. Together with the rest of the Committee, the Centre Party is committed to transferring the infrastructure of the NSB Gardermobanen AS to the Railway Agency and to entering into a mandatory agreement on operational and maintenance arrangements. High speed is a premonition of the Fly train. This requires good maintenance. In the proposal, it is proposed that the Fly train be continued as a State-owned operating company, 100 pst. owned by NSB BA. The centre party supports this, but on the condition that the Fly train, within this organisation, is given a great deal of autonomy and ability to develop. The flight train must, for example: be able to market itself as a stand-alone offer and must be able to make its priorities based on the benefits of the Flytrain. It is important to have a controller that is busy by what makes the flight train the best. Given the massive cancellation of debt that we will adopt later this evening, it is important that any excess in the Flytrain be visible in the future. An organisation of the Fly train as the plural has outlined in the setting, I think I can make the Fly train a company and also make the Fly train a spearhead for all rail operations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e362	We're talking about history and future framework conditions, a story that by many along the way is described as a scandal, a word I'm going to be careful to take in my mouth. I'm afraid of inflation, and that the value of such strong expressions will be devalued. But when we clean up $6.7 billion in debt, it is serious – very serious! It is also amazing in these revised budgetary times to listen to workers’ party representatives when they consider these to be the only crowns, the only billions of loans, which do not affect the sacred budget balance. But to have said that, an airport on the Gardermo would be a real scandal without a community service. We already have too many cars on the roads in the capital, and the aim must be to increase the collective share. I respond to the fact that the representative Kofoed-Larsen quotes all parties, except the Workers' Party and SV, as part of the criticism of the plan. Either she hasn't read the setting, or she conceals reality, because that sentence was part of a much longer point, where there were other things like that. We in SV couldn't be on. There can be no doubt that there was insufficient planning work behind the Gardermobane project, and that they were working under both time pressure and under economic conditions, as well as under pressure. It would cost no more than customers being able to pay down the investments. Exceedances of costs, environmental problems and damage to sentences are both serious. When the Gardermo project — after a number of selections, national audit and open hearings — was examined in the control committee, SV was prepared to conclude. The majority would review and could not draw any conclusions. The fact that they now – after setting up a review committee – conclude in this setting on several points is just an expression of their lack of consistency. How can they conclude in the Committee on Transport when their party colleagues in the Committee on Control could not draw a single conclusion, but would turn all the stones, no matter how many had turned the same stones before? Therefore, I have to say that the representation that came from the representative Kofoed-Larsen is on the side of reality and obscures it. I think the majority is pathetic, but for the Gardermoban and the NSB, it's sad. They will re-examine all archives, all correspondence and records and try to remember what has happened at meetings, who has said what to whom in which calls and on the telephone. Time and forces shall be used on the past and not on future challenges. I am also, like the representative Myrli, a little surprised to see that the majority of the committee notes that the share of passengers in the flight is lower than intended, while they will not take in as a mitigating circumstance that the assumptions have changed. When the Gardermoban was adopted, it was a prerequisite that there should not be parallel buses. This assumption was changed by us – by the Stortinget – and the result is that the collective share, the sum of trains and buses, is significantly higher than the intended collective share. What you should have examined is the memory of the big business representatives and their ability to read documents, including documents that have been in this room before. The air train is a quality service. It goes fast, it goes often, it's punctual, and it's convenient. What worries me is the price-market ratio, the fear that the train trip is priced so high that some people choose the train away. I will continue to maintain that we have the aim of getting a maximum share of the passengers to take the train. We in SV support the acquisition of the Gardermoban, the infrastructure, by the Railway Agency, and become part of the other rail system in Norway. But then I have another concern. The majority say yes to the road fare for passenger transport on the Gardermoban, which is now part of the railway station's regular network. The justification is the requirement for a higher standard of operation and maintenance. It is a new principle for the railway undertaking’s journey path. I am afraid that it can open up the possibility of introducing it on other routes, because there is also not the same maintenance and operating standard on the Raumaban as on the bankways. Then we put the bill on the ticket prices, and that won't strengthen the competitiveness of the railway compared to the road. With regard to operating costs: If the Storting had the ability to make decisions, and not only to determine for eternity – and of course also for the Government – perhaps something could have been done with VAT, investment tax, material and a number of such things as the Stortinget has long wanted to get an investigation and give an answer to, but that has always been exposed and seems to be in the department forever. It could also have improved the operating costs both for the Gardermoban and for NSB BA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e384	The President is a little uncertain as to whether the representative of Myrvoll should make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e388	Well, he might think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e393	The representative of Myrvoll then addressed the proposal to which he referred a little reluctantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e396	Let me start by stating a fact. The Gardermo project is one of the largest land-based projects in Norway over time. For the Left, it is important to clarify that we want the best possible collective offer for travellers to and from Oslo Airport, and in this way the Flytrain is the starting point of today's collective service. In addition, the extension of the Gardermoban has provided a better infrastructure and thus a better provision for all those travelling by train in this region. As large cost overruns as have occurred in this project, not only in the construction of the infrastructure, but also in the fact that planned operating costs have increased monthly, shows that the Gardermoban has been too badly planned. In addition, the Flytog has less market share than one had in mind when the Stortinget decided to expand the Gardermoban. Left supports the proposal that the NSB Gardermoban transfer its infrastructure to the Railway Agency and that it be included as an ordinary part of the State railway network. For the Left, however, it is important that a binding agreement be reached between the Fly train and the Railway Agency to ensure that the track remains a high standard. Good operational and maintenance arrangements for the Gardermoban are essential for the flight train to appear as a safe and effective means of delivery. The train is part of the accommodation system of the aerodrome. An essential requirement for the Left to support the Government’s proposal that the Airtrain should be a State-owned operating company owned by NSB BA is that the Airtrain become highly autonomous and free of development. The flight must be capable of being marketed as a stand-alone offer and must be free to carry out its operations on the basis of what constitutes the Fly train, regardless of what it has to say to the NSB group. Now, when the Storting deletes NOK 6.7 billion of the debt of the NSB Gardermobanen AS, it's important for the Left that future surpluses can be used to reduce these costs. The organisation shall be reviewed in two years' time. We will then be given an answer as to whether the organisation works in line with the statements made by the majority at Stortinget. The left will, based on the experience gained at the time, consider whether the proposed organisation is the best for the Fly train, or whether there are other ways in which you might be better off. The two alternatives you see today are, first of all, a state-owned company, placed under the Ministry of Transport – this will allow the Stortinget to assess the use of any future surplus. – and the second is privatisation, as the Progress Party and the Right propose in their proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would like to make it clear that the Left must enter in order to privatise the Fly train, and thus open up to competition on the track, the infrastructure must be significantly better than today. This requires substantial investment by the State. It may be exciting to see whether the Progress Party and the Right are willing to give priority to this, in strong competition with many other good purposes. The Bondevik government brings down a selection that would lead to a wide review of the extension of the Gardermoban and Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Everything suggests a lack of adequate and inadequate planning. The deviation between the cost estimates presented to the Stortinget at the time of the extension decision and the final cost figures are unacceptable. To the left, it is important that a lesson is learned from the errors that have been made, and that the selection has been presented with regard to both planning and organisation. The entire Committee points to the need to strengthen transport economic research and asks the Government to submit an assessment of this in connection with the national transport plan. In the view of the Left, it is important to strengthen external quality assurance by all major investments. This was also a priority of the Bondevik government by putting in place stricter governance requirements for all investments with a cost framework of more than 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e426	In St. prp. No 52 for 1999-2000, the Ministry of Transport presents a valuation and final balance sheet proposal for the NSB Gardermobanen AS and comments and proposals for further follow-up to the NOU 1999:28 Gardermo project. A key point for the Government in the evaluation and final balance sheet proposals for NSB Gardermobanen AS has been to arrive at an economic and organisational mechanism that can contribute to strengthening the whole railway sector in order to achieve the objective of increasing market shares for public transport. A major emphasis has therefore been placed on providing a framework to maintain the objective of maximising socio-economic returns on invested capital, inter alia. by requiring a high proportion of air passengers to travel by train to and from the aerodrome. At the same time, emphasis has been placed on maintaining the decision that the investments undertaken in the Gardermoban could be financed by users under realistic economic conditions. I also believe that the Government has, through its arrangements, placed emphasis on maintaining the Gardermoban as a spearhead within the NSB, as a service-friendly company that operates efficiently and rationally. Based on the organisational model chosen for the State rail transport in the sharing of the management company NSB in December 1996, with an organisational distinction between the road and traffic activities, the Government has found it most appropriate that this principle also be followed for the NSB Gardermobanen AS. In my opinion, this will be the most tidy organisational solution, while providing the flight train with foreseeable operating conditions, which is important when setting up a new train carrier. On the basis of the independent assessments made by the NSB Gardermobanen AS" value, the Government proposes that the flight train be established with a value of the capital employed equivalent to 1714 million. kr. This implies the need to grant a grant for the amortisation of loans of 6 711.5 million. kr. In addition, there is an equity contribution to the Flytrain of 669.5 million. kr and the granting by the State of a temporary loan of 1 118,6 million. kr. The organisation with the Flytrain as 100 pst. owned subsidiary of NSB BA, and thus part of the NSB group, is proposed to be maintained. In return for the cancellation of the State loan to NSB Gardermobanen AS, the State takes over the ownership of the infrastructure at the Railway Agency. In this way, the State railway network is strengthened in favour of total rail transport and public transport. I am pleased to note that the majority of the Committee on Transport supports the main lines of the Government's proposal for a new organisational structure for the NSB Gardermobanen AS. The proposal for the balance sheet of the flight train has recorded 424 million. kr linked to a pre-emptive period of 30 years in the schedule context of the Gardermoban. The fact that operators had to pay for the use of the Gardermoban was an important principle of the Enlargement’s extension decision, and it would therefore be fundamentally wrong to deviate from it as long as it is the ability to pay by the companies. It is therefore proposed that the payment scheme for the use of the Gardermoban should be maintained within a realistic economic framework. The Gardermoban is a high-speed rail, and it is therefore important to ensure a high standard on this track. In order to ensure this important element, it is envisaged that it is as the operators, i.e. The flight train and the NSB, paying for the use of the path, shall go to the operation and maintenance of the Gardermoban. At the same time, binding contracts are entered into between the Railway Agency and operators, including the Flytrain, which contain financial incentives for both parties. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Transport is in favour of the Flytogen AS being organised as a subsidiary of 100 pst. owned by NSB BA, but with a high degree of freedom and independence that is more detailed in the Inner East. S. No 237 and that this organisation will be reviewed in two years’ time. In this context, it will include, inter alia: having regard to the fact that any operating surplus, irrespective of its size, must be able to incur a reduction in costs. In line with the Act on limited liability companies and the State’s rail transport company, the NSB BA’s responsibility is to manage the assets of the group, including to ensure that the company operates in accordance with law and regulation, and that the activities are properly organised. The Governing Board of NSB BA is elected by the Minister for Transport as a general meeting. In the management of the NSB group, it is important that the Board of Directors of the Group has confidence in the management of ownership exercised. As a general meeting of the NSB group, I am adding to a management of ownership that contributes to the achievement of the state's objectives of ownership, while managing the state's capital as best as possible within the legal and regulatory framework that is in force at all times. In line with the treatment of St.meld. No 19 and Innst. S. No 138 for 1998-99 on the activities of NSB BA are key management tools in the overall follow-up of the NSB group. At the same time, I would like to show that the amount of dividends the State that owns can withdraw from the NSB group is regulated by the Accounting Act. With regard to the proposal that the organisation of the Flytrain should be reviewed in two years' time, I find it natural that this should be done in the context of the notification of the NSB group’s activities in the autumn of 2002. The right proposes that the Gardermoban infrastructure be leased back to the Flytrain. Such a scheme would mean that an operator would then give full control over one of the country's main rail links. I am surprised that the Right Members do not find this problematic in terms of competition. In my opinion, a lease-back scheme could lead to a lower return on the lost capital on the track, both in terms of achieving the highest possible level of public transport and in terms of obtaining revenue from operators in the form of payments for the use of the track. In addition, this would be a mechanism that would require an unnecessary amount of resources for administration, while at the same time being unfair to the other actors in the railway sector, not least in relation to the outside world and transport customers. With regard to the follow-up to the recommendations of the Mudsk Committee, I have taken note of the comments of the Committee on Transport. These are comments that I will follow up. In several areas, action has already been taken in line with the recommendations of the Mudsk Committee. In this respect, I would also like to refer to the review in Yellow Book 2000, which mentions measures for better quality assurance and the management of uncertainties in large public projects. The majority have proposed that an assessment be made of how to organise the production and pricing of services exploiting fixed installations, with particular emphasis on rail transport. As shown in St. prp. No 52, the Transport Economic Institute has carried out calculations of the road charge for rail transport. The study carried out by the Department of Transport Economics carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Transport includes a general assessment of the methodology and design of the road tax. The report also includes an interpretation of the content of the EU railway package. The Ministry of Transport will come back to this in greater detail in the context of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e470	Traffic to and from Oslo Airport Gardermoen was predicted to crash completely when the flight had not started when the airport was put into operation. This didn't happen. Therefore, it seems to me that projects are started by overestimating the importance of the projects and underestimating the costs. Your councillor Moe Gustavsen agreed with his party trap Sissel Rønbeck, who was the case rapporteur on the construction of the Gardermoen, in what she said, that the Gardermobanen would be Norway's most profitable railway project with a return of 8 p.m.? In case the answer is yes, are there more such railway developments at the level stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e477	On the direct question of whether I agree with the fact that the NSB Gardermoban today appears to be the most profitable railway project in existence, with a return of 8 p.m., the world of reality has shown that that is not the case. That is not the interesting question that I expect the Commission to address. The question is what was the background for making these assessments at an earlier date. I expect you to come back to that, and I am sure that the representative Steinsaker will come back later. What is the main point of the Gardermoban, also in relation to the statements that have been made earlier by my party colleagues in this way, is that the Gardermoban has contributed and contributes to the Oslo Main Airport being among the main airports in the world that have the absolute highest collective share. We're going to be proud of that, and we're going to see to it that it's going to continue, and I'm absolutely sure it's going to continue in its new form of organization as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e484	The Council of State stated that he had registered that the majority of the Committee supported the main line of the Government's proposals. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that the Flytrain be given a special position. We have also made that clear in our remarks, including in the majority remarks, and our option was actually, along with a possible majority, to take the flight train out of the NSB. I was therefore somewhat in doubt about the position of the Council of State when he kept his speech, and I have a question: will the Council of State follow up on it as a majority of the Committee has a Roman number of proposals and majority comments on? I'm going to quote the Roman numerals' suggestion. It says: ‘The flight train AS is organised as a subsidiary 100 pst. owned by NSB BA with a high degree of freedom and independence in line with what is outlined in the Innst. S. No 237 [[1999 - 2000]] It is quite essential that we can be sure that this is being followed up, so that we can stand for that setting, as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e494	I'm going to have to repeat some of what I said in my main post, and I'm quoting the following section: ‘I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Transport is in favour of the Flytogen AS being organised as a subsidiary 100 pst. owned by NSB BA, but with a high degree of freedom and independence that is more detailed in the Inner East. S. No 237’ – the position we are discussing today – ‘and that this organisation will be reviewed in two years’ time’. So I say in clear order that I will follow it up. What I further reasoned on was that I also take for granted that this proposal incorporates the fact that that freedom should be as great as it is advised in the current law on shares, to which of course the Flytog AS must relate. Regarding the issue of evaluation of this organisation, I also later said in my post that I saw it as natural to come back to this in connection with the NSB BA’s 2002 business plan, and that is about. two more years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e506	It could have been a good thing to refer to history, but the current Council of State has no responsibility for it, so we're going to have to take that in a different context. The representative Ringstad, however, was interested in an important point in his post, and I thought I would ask the Council of State as well. We have had a discussion in this house in various committees about North Hordlandsbrua, which was a transportation project that broke considerably. It may be very much to criticize that project, but as the Council of State is sure to be aware, it was the toll payers who had to pay everything. There are a lot of such projects in Norway where there has been no mention of the state coming in and helping with the funding, but where, therefore, the tolls are increased. It's not very important. But around Norway, you wonder why these costs on the Gardermoban, they have to take the state, while in the rest of Norway you have to pay it out of your own wallet. But my main question doesn't go there, it goes on the following: if we agree that we have to try to get the most back of the resources that have been laid down in the Gardermoban, that the company makes sure to pay the most back to the community through the Treasury for the investments that have been made, then my question to the Council of State is very simple: does he agree that the primary objective of the flight is that the expenditure that has been and the investments that have been made should society try to get back? Will he have that goal in mind when he goes to the general meeting? I am also fully aware of the limitations of the Share Act and the Group Act relating to this, but that is an important question for me. Is he concerned that society will get this money back, and that they will not disappear in the NSB system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e516	I am particularly concerned that we are now providing the Flytrain with a basis that is both such that the company should have the necessary incentives to operate at the highest level of financial soundness and at the best possible economic performance, while having an important role in the accommodation service for the Gardermoen. As far as the economic aspects are concerned, it is obvious that the result of the Flytrain – which I expect will be in plus, as we have foreseen, after approx. four years — shall be clearly visible and that it will also be in the consolidated financial statements of the NSB in such a way that profits from the NSB can also be deducted by the authorities through such indirect action. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the success of the flight cannot only be measured by how large the plus results are, it is also an important goal to ensure a high collective share to the airport, both for environmental reasons and because I am absolutely sure that it is a good accommodation service that serves the travelers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e523	In the centre part, we are concerned that the operational and maintenance arrangements should be at the top of all routes. But high speed, which is one of the Fly train's greatest advantages, sets special requirements for maintenance in my view. Fast travel, good regularity and good service are crucial to keep the market part of the Fly train at bay and preferably increased. The Council of State was in its article on the theme of operation and maintenance, but did not say so much about it. But at least he established that the Fly train is a high-speed train, and that therefore it is important to ensure good standards. I would like to ask the State Council to elaborate on its assessments of operation and maintenance as a decisive basis for the further successful development of the Flytrain. And I want to ask: does the Council of State see that the Fly train, at high speed and the important function that the Fly train has as a link between the capital and the main aerodrome, needs to be ensured an optimal operating and maintenance system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e532	I would like to answer yes to the closing questions asked by the representative Ringstad. It is very important that the flight train can be guaranteed the best conditions in order to have the highest possible regularity, speed and comfort. This presupposes that I have to sign the contract that has to be concluded between the Fly train and the Railway Agency. It is absolutely necessary that the flight train be offered such a prerequisite that it can be exactly the option I myself described in my response to the representative Nilsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e537	I must say that we are concerned about the framework conditions for rail operations in Norway. This applies not least on the fee side, in the case of VAT, investment tax, etc. Unfortunately, I have not received any help from the Right and Advance Party, which is otherwise largely opposed to fees, to work with that matter. And then I would like to ask the Council of State: does he expect that he will be allowed by the Ministry of Finance to implement some reforms a little quickly, so that these charges absolutely will not affect railway operations – that we will have some changes, some reforms in the near future? Then we proceed to the next charge: the road charge for passenger transport, which is now being introduced on a route within the railway network. The Council sees it as one exception, so that it is not appropriate to impose a road charge for the carriage of passengers on other routes on the basis of the type of justification that there are different requirements for standard maintenance, operation, etc., because there is a difference between the Rauma and bankways, for example. There are in a way five priorities for railway lines in Norway for the rest of the railway network. But does the Council of State view this as one exception, so you don't have to fear that this will spread? If it is time – it may not be – I would like to know if the Council of State is concerned about whether the ticket price on the flight can lead to the rejection of customers, that the potential could be even greater if you had a more reasonable price.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e548	With regard to the issue of charges, there is reason to consider certain aspects, not least in the case of investment charges, which may distort competition in the railway's favour. I want to look into this and possibly come back to the ways in which the representative Myrvoll knows you will come back to the question of fees. In the case of road tax, a higher road tax is a zero, for it is really what is basically right to say here, correctly in this context based on two factors: firstly, it has been a prerequisite for the construction of this infrastructure that it should be financed by the user. Then you can discuss to what extent you do it after what is likely to happen later this evening. The other is a higher quality than the rest of the network, and thus it can be said that this has given relevance to a specific charging for the flight. In the case of NSB BA, it is also appropriate here to charge a road charge on the basis that, otherwise, an undesirable distortion of competition can occur. But when this turns out to be the price of tickets, there has to be a match between the price you pay and the product you get. And as the committee pointed out earlier, this isn't the case in every context, and we're working on it. With regard to the price of the air train, it is important that you have an alert eye here so that the price does not seem negative, while providing a necessary commercial basis. It is to strive for such a pricing we have chosen to propose the equity with which this company is set up. I hope and believe this is the right basis for finding this balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e562	The decision to build the Gardermoen airport with a railway-based accommodation system was taken by Stortinget on 8 October 1992. It was built on St. pp. No 90 on the development and financing of the main Oslo area aerodrome on the Gardermoen and associated accommodation system. It's said to be right. ‘that the Gardermobane shall ensure as high a collective share as possible and above 50 %.’;» Further: ‘The expansion of the Gardermoban is a profitable investment with an estimated real return on investment of 8%.’ The decision on the extension was taken by the votes of the Workers' Party and the Right. The proposal of the Progress Party was that a new main aerodrome be based on private development, financing and operation. During all these years, the Progress Party has maintained that Gardermobanen AS is a limited liability company and is to be treated accordingly. We have on every occasion come and ask for more money, voted that the Gardermobanen AS must go in the private market and comply with it. If the other parties had listened to the Advancement Party, they would not have been in the aggravated situation that has arisen today. Everything that could go wrong seems to have turned on. Why has that happened? Sissel Rønbecks spoke in the 1992 debate on transport, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The proposed Gardermoen high-speed rail will be the most profitable railway project we can imagine so far in Norway.’ There was no lack of good wisdom in the debate at that time. Even a collective share up to 60 pst. Mr Rønbeck, rapporteur on the matter at the time, thought it possible. Today we are facing the situation that Gardermobanen AS has become Norway's most expensive transport project. We've been witnessing a lot of strange over-traffics lately, but the Gardermobanen takes the jam cake. The Gardermoban was calculated at NOK 4.6 billion in 1992, and has since increased to NOK 10 billion. The trail Gardermoen-Eidsvoll has already been reduced to the Railway Agency, a cost of SEK 1.6 billion. A two-year operating deficit shall also be covered by the taxpayers at the NSB Gardermobanen AS. And now the billions run so fast that the public has for the longest time given up to follow. What other ASs in this country get such gift packages? The Progress Party has always considered that an AS, whether State or private, should be treated equally. From the very beginning, there has been reason to criticise the management, follow-up of progress and economics, overview and control of the Gardermobanen AS project. Nor does the Progress Party regard debt restructuring as a solution for a proper assessment of the investments made on the Gardermobanen AS. For the posterity, it is best that the Gardermobanen AS is bankrupt, and that completely other actors take over. Now the whole company continues to be part of the NSB. Not even substituting it under the Ministry as a State-owned AS will be assessed by the Centre Parties. No then, they follow the Workers' Party and leave it still under the NSB, and so I do not think, unfortunately, that the last chapter of the «story» of the Gardermobanen AS is written. So a little to the representative Myrvoll, who said that he had not received any drag help from either the Right Party or the Advance Party when it came to charges. With regard to the investment fee, we have always been in favour of removing it, but we have not agreed that it should only apply to the NSB. We go in order for it to be removed for everyone, because we want equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e601	We've got a great connection between Oslo and Gardermoen, the most modern that exists. But at what cost? – That’s what I’m a little concerned about. If this had been a private expansion, everyone in the board and the management would have to go by day. More than double the cost compared to the estimate had never been accepted. I am afraid that if it had been a private trader who had been doing this here, he would have used both the VAT money and more to manage everything in the box. And then he had been put in, because it's unconditional imprisonment for using the VAT money. I'm just drawing it out as an apropos. There has been said mass in this hall about the Rome sport, which among entrepreneurs was called the pearl gate because of the merit during the big seal exercise. We're talking about billions. The price tag has now become more than 10 billion kroner in total. I wonder if people are aware of how much money this is. I'll try to illustrate. A week ago I was in Tromsø at the representative meeting of the Norwegian Råfisk team, which is the largest sale team we have in Norway for bottom fish. The total turnover of Norway’s raw fish teams at first hand was NOK 6.5 billion. It includes 30 pst. landings from Russia. In order to reach over DKK 10 billion, the entire fishing fleet fishing for bottom fish between Vevang in the south and the Russian border in the north plus the Russian fleet must therefore work free for 11⁄2 years! They have to drive the lake 11⁄2 years. It includes operations, it includes profits, it includes salary for crew — all costs. 11⁄2 years of work free of charge to pay the formidable bill to transport people between Oslo and Gardermoen! But that's not enough. The funny thing is that the windshield in the Ministry of Finance has found out that the activity of the coastal population is creating inflation, while deleting this debt of DKK 10 billion does not create inflation. We're going to give up 6.7 billion – a total of 7.3 billion kroner is going to be injected into today. There won't be any inflation of it. No, it's hidden in a proposition, it's not even supposed to be in the state budget. It just has to be tricked aside, because that doesn't mean anything in the national economy. I think that's very remarkable. But the matter is that the money has already been used. Food is eaten and drunk. The activity has been there and has already created inflation. I remember the previous revised budget, when cabinet questions were asked in the hall, because then it was a business cycle fee that was on the table because we had such a high activity. It was this whole area. And that's what I'm concerned about, that all the activity, big investment down here, you're going to do, but if there's a know-how or a tunnel or another transportation project out in the districts, it's going to be inflation. I assume that the Minister for Transport in the next budget will provide a similar sum of 10 billion kroner to clear all tolls so that people can drive around without paying tolls. It would be a suitable patch on the wound. I'm not against having a good railway, we're going to have the best connections and the best communication possible, but we're going to have something left that creates the values in the district and creates the basis for this wealth. 11⁄2 years of free work – notice that! People in the districts must be allowed to make the same demands as people in the agglomerations. I have a prayer, if I may: make sure to repair the sentence injuries that are along the treadmill of the Gardermoban. There's a lot of people who haven't got a real deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e622	The President would point out that there is no Blueruss employee in the Ministry of Finance, and would ask the representative of Bastesen in the continuation not to refer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e625	A unanimous Committee on Transport states in the setting that we need to learn from the mistakes made in the process of the Gardermo project. We have something to learn from all of this. This debate clearly shows that this is the case. We are now in a situation where Stortinget has appointed a commission to investigate what has happened. Then I have to say that I find it a little strange that the parties that have been most strongly involved in the control committee are the ones that are now the longest to draw conclusions in this position. The working party and SV determine in the setting that we do not see any special need to get another sample to review this case. But once such a commission has been reduced, I think it is very impeccable to draw the best conclusions on this matter before this Commission submits its report. When I have asked for the floor in this case, it is primarily to point out what opportunities and what good offers this course actually gives the population. Although it has cost us, we have received a rail offer for the new main aerodrome with short transport time, high regularity and good comfort. This is an important value in itself. We know that the travellers make strict demands on transport, and if we had not managed to give this offer, I am convinced that the collective share would have been considerably lower than we see today. And we know that it would have had consequences in terms of significantly higher car traffic on a route that is already heavily loaded today. In addition, the construction of the track has resulted in significantly shorter travel time between Oslo and Lillestrom for many of the rail passengers. There's a situation that I'd like to believe Lillestrøm's inhabitants are very pleased with. And more importantly, we've got a high-capacity and high-quality route, with double tracks on the entire route between Oslo and Eidsvoll. Like the representative Myrli, I would like to point out that later today we are going to deal with the toll section of the Oslopack 2, and we know what costs it will have to build new double tracks between Asker and Ski. The construction of the Gardermoban allows us to release corresponding expansion northwards. It's not impossible at all that we had to find room for corresponding investments north of the capital, which we now see must find its solution to the east and west. I'm not saying this to apologize or to hide the large exceedances we've seen on this project. But after hearing the debate here today, I think it might be nice to remember why some of us would actually have the Gardermoban in their time. The flight train and the Gardermoban are today, together with the new tiltogens, the leading symbols of the new NSB, an NSB with a modern train offer that can compete with private car and aircraft, with high speed, good safety and good comfort. I would warn against underestimating the significance of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e640	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e644	The expansion of the Gardermobanen is financed by the fact that the State has provided the NSB Gardermobanen AS with capital in the form of ordinary loans and subordinated loans. After the opening of Rome’s sport on 22 August 1999, most of the NSB BA’s trains also run through Rome’s sport. When the Rome sport was put into service, travelers with NSB BA’s trains received more expensive tickets, because NSB BA’s trains should also be involved in paying down the NSB Gardermobanen AS’ debt, in line with the Stortinget assumption. This has hit passengers on the Kongswingerbahn and in particular the commuters who have no alternative if they are to use trains to and from work in Oslo. The commuters on Kongsvingerbanen have received a surcharge on the ticket price of 250 kroner without having received any benefits. The passengers on Kongsvingerbanen have neither requested nor required the train to pass through the sport of Rome. It's actually the NSB itself that has decided to run it like this. A prerequisite for NSB BA's train to use the Rome sport was that trains should have a significantly shorter journey time. I record that many of the trains have not had any shorter travel time in spite of the fact that they use the Rome sport. The commuters on this track have also not got a better train. Nevertheless, ticket prices have increased significantly. Thus, the assumption is no longer present. Of course, we politicians must take some of the blame for this development, but not all of it. The government proposed and Stortinget joins today to reduce the road tax. The NSB shall pay to drive on the Gardermoban, but the road charge will not be completely removed. If we had to remove the road tax on all NSB BA's trains, we would have had to do it for the flight trains on the Gardermoban. This was not an economic opportunity to do it. With the vast majority of people in the budget before Christmas, and with what the majority say today, there should be hope for the commuters on the Kongswingerban. The commuters on Kongsvingerbanen have not had a shorter travel time, nor a better train, and it is not fair that the commuters should pay for something they do not enjoy. I expect this extra charge to be removed. I'm optimistic about orientation, and I hope this can happen quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e657	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3778]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e671	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e685	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e694	The proposition we're dealing with now contains a lot of things. Several of these are to be debated and voted on tomorrow in the context of the financial position of the revised national budget. That's why I just want to comment on a few points in this compound proposition. The first point concerns the helicopter safety on the Norwegian continental shelf. The Ministry now briefs on the establishment of a public body to assess the organisation of responsibilities and roles of the authorities with regard to the helicopter operations on the Norwegian continental shelf, and further on the development of concrete objectives and measures to promote aviation safety. This is a matter which has been dealt with in the past both in the Committee and in the Stortinget, and a unanimous committee now assumes that this work is a high priority, and that concrete proposals are presented to the Stortinget as soon as possible. The next point I want to comment on concerns the new financial system of the Aviation Agency, which is also a matter of information for the Stortinget. The National Auditorate took part in Document No. 1 for 1999-2000 on the introduction of a new financial system in the Aviation Administration. The case was set for observation. A unanimous committee has noted the significant costs of conversion to this economic system, not least in relation to several of our state enterprises and states. The Committee questions whether it has not been possible or is possible to develop a State competence to assist States in this work. Technological developments are moving rapidly. It means that both the economy and the management systems must change in less than too long, and I am convinced that the new round will come. The third point concerns toll financing of the sub-project on a new Rv 546 Luftarøy-Hundvåkøy in Hordaland. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the Right, also underlined in the Budgetary Section. S. No 13 for 1999-2000, i.e. the 2000 budget, that it could be opened up here so that the interpretation of these masses could be financed by tolls. The same majority are pleased that the Ministry is following up the majority's recommendation that the interpretation of these surplus masses in fillings between the two islands can be covered with tolls. I find it strange that the rest of the committee cannot join such an arrangement, and in particular I find it a little strange that the Central Party does not support the majority's remark. The fourth point that I want to touch on concerns the aggregation of items on the road budget. Item 31, Racial protection premium, is now proposed for inclusion in the ordinary national road tax allocations as from the 2000 state budget. In the case of item 32, Landing of fixed decks on highways is now included in the chapter. 1320 item 30, which is national road investment. The reason for this conversion is that fixed coverage on highways is an activity of national road investment in line with a number of other measures. The Ministry of Transport underlines that the objective of solid cover on all national roads by 2003 is well under way. I would like to stress that the installation of a fixed deck may not be so wise if the substructure on these roads is too poor. This is why there are many measures that need to be taken before black cover can be provided. We have examples in this country of states that have progressed reasonably quickly in this way, as we see today the results of, with considerable wear on these roads. With regard to item 31, Racial Protection Grants, a unanimous committee emphasises the desire to have an overall review in the annual budgets with an overview of racial protection efforts made each year. The members of the Committee from the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left insist that racial protection should be a separate item. I think it's wise that now it's not going to be a separate post, because what we've already noticed after the central government put forward its racial protection plan is that it's created enormous expectations, not least that there's going to be extra funds here. Finally, I'd like to mention the cap. 1370, relating to purchases of postal services. Here is a unanimous committee which, like the Post Office, is concerned that the requirements for the services imposed on society in the Post Office concession must be in line with the government's willingness to pay for these services. When this item is now reduced in revision, the Committee stresses that the Ministry has to come back to this in connection with the presentation of the Communication on the activities of the Post Norway BA, which comes in autumn 2000. There the Committee points out that it may be possible to find a model for the purchase of postal services by the State, which has similarities with the one we have for the government's purchase of services from NSB BA. I want to say that it is unfortunate when we change the state's purchase of services in the middle of a fiscal year. Therefore, we have to get a scheme that gives much greater predictability, otherwise I'll probably believe that in the long term, if it continues, the service offer from service providers will have to be changed as the state changes its assumptions for public purchases. With these words I would recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e724	In St. pp. No 60 for 1999-2000, which contains a number of cases, is also the award of the four new mobile concessions. The party considered initially that these should be offered on a regular basis. Following the auctioning of licences in the United Kingdom – and this was done throughout the EEA – it turned out that the interest was considerably greater than previously foreseen. In the United Kingdom, a total of DKK 320 billion was allocated to licences, in Germany more is expected, and Denmark will now also use the same principle, and they are assumed to take in about DKK 20 billion. In Norway, it has been calculated that, in the event of a call within the EEA territory, about 10 billion DKK is a realistic sum to be received at an auction on these four mobile concessions. The government would have a grant concession of NOK 100 million per year. Paragraph as well as an annual frequency charge, which will certainly increase every year. Now this grant concession has reached 200 million. kr per. Paragraph in the conciliation. The Progress Party has come to the conclusion that by auctioning away these four licences into the new system and also allowing integration into the existing system, there would be a good incentive for increased competition and low prices for consumers. The Progress Party believes that it will be more predictable for the builders that we use the auction principle. The Progress Party has therefore proposed that the four new mobile concessions – UMTS – be awarded by auction. The proposal will not be presented here, but it will be presented during the debate of the Committee on Budgets and taken up there. I would like to mention from other points of view that the Progress Party is opposed to reducing the allocation to the Railway Agency by 30 million. kr. The Labour Party and the Right have here the majority that is responsible for the 30 million reduction. kr. Here you also say that the tiltogens are to be exempted, so it is likely to affect the commuters, which are once again industrious users of the local traffic and intercity railways. The Progress Party has always argued in its collective effort that near-traffic and intercity railways need to be modernised and become more efficient, and will therefore maintain the 30 million. kr this time. So I'll mention that constantly when you propose reductions, it's road maintenance and road development it's going to go beyond. There is no sense of urgency when this item is to be reduced. The Stoltenberg government would reduce maintenance. The laying of fixed decks on gravel roads would reduce by a whole of 50 pst. And the county roads they also went on. I would like to remind you that the state's expenditure on operating, maintaining and investing in new roads is not more than about NOK 10 billion per year. years, while the state now takes in about 40 billion kroner per year. year from the drivers. In fact, car owners are making more contributions to the treasury than are taxes on income and wealth. Finally, I just want to correct an incurrency in post 31, during the merging of posts. The Progress Party shall be associated with the Centre instead of with the Workers' Party, Right and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e745	The government’s proposal for a revised national budget did not respond in any way to the expectations that had been pre-constructed. Perhaps this applies in particular to trade, which our proposition deals with, where sometimes the cigaretteing was very high while the Workers' Party was in opposition. Former Spokesman for the Workers' Party, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, drove one race after another towards the centre parties for the lifting break and the lack of follow-up of appropriations for transport. In the Christian People's Party, we had therefore expected the Workers' Party in the revised national budget to give some small – I repeat small – signals of a future uplift for the transport sector. What the government presented really means is cut in a lot of areas of transportation, and it can therefore, in my opinion, in the light of previous statements, be seen as nothing but a proper retreat. The biggest cut hit the purchase of unprofitable postal services. However, national road investment, land cover on gravel roads, county road investment and railway investment were also affected. The winter that lies behind us has led to considerable extra costs for the operation of the road network in several parts of the country. Both the West and North Norway have had unusually large amounts of snow. Of course, it has also cost a lot of money. Winter and spring have also been characterised by a high oil price. There have been consequences, including: in the form of an increased price for ferry fuel. The extra costs for the operation of the ferries are estimated at 145 million. NOK and the extra cost of operating the road network to NOK 195 million. kr. The government proposes to compensate for most of these extra expenses. But the problem, seen from the Christian People's Party, is the containment, which affects a number of other important purposes of transportation. National road investments are proposed to be reduced by 130 million. SEK, of which 110 million. kr is intended for use, maintenance and ferries. The available means for the laying of fixed decks on highways are halved. Rightly, the government writes that the target of fixed cover on all national roads is fixed by 2003, but when they cut 50 out of 100 million. kr in the middle of the year, it must necessarily have an impact on the activity this year. This particularly affects districts, which initially have very small pre-existing frameworks. Additives for county road purposes were severely cut, with 102 million. kr. It also has to have consequences for the activity. When the government party so quickly runs away from its promises, it is in return for the Christian People's Party to be pleased that the centre parties together Right and the Progress Party are correcting some of the dramatic cuts in terms of the revised national budget. The centre batches have found containment and ensured that it is possible to increase the funds for road maintenance by 80 million. kr. For us, it is absolutely essential that this should be done, among other things. shall ensure sufficient resources to ensure that there is no risk of weakening the ferry service. The proposition suggests that it is possible to save money by reducing something on the ferry service where it is based on traffic. It could mean cutting first or last ferry. We will, on the part of the Christian People's Party, strongly warn against this. Those parts of the country which are dependent on ferries shall not be deprived of their communication capability over larger parts of the day than is already the case. For the Christian People's Party, the aim is to expand ferry services in the evening and night to increase well-being and facilitate larger housing and labour market regions, which are, of course, one of the main objectives of the national transport plan. The Christian People's Party has also helped to ensure that some of the cuts in the funds for fixed cover on highways are returned. In addition, we have obtained a majority to return some of the cuts in the grant to county roads. Unfortunately, we didn't get a majority to return the $30 million. kr The working party has cut off heavily needed railway investment. The proposal concerns a number of toll projects. In the review of several of them it is mentioned that exceedances in excess of 10 pst. shall be covered by the State, in line with the standard agreement. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are in doubt whether such a point in the standard agreement is a fraud. If you look at the matter that the Stortinget has just debated, the Gardermo project, it points to the possibility of strategic budgeting. There can be no doubt that this point in the standard agreement could give rise to the same possibility in the road sector. We should therefore have liked to see this particular point of the standard agreement assessed, in the context of the national transport plan. Racism is a high priority area in the transportation of the Christian People's Party. We are afraid that efforts can be weakened if racial protection is not passed on as a separate line in the budget. Quite rightly, funds under other items are also used for measures with racial protection effects, but there is no need to be any contradiction between this and having a record for real racial protection measures. Of course, we must avoid funds going beyond this item to actions where other motivations underlie the desire for development. We are once again experiencing that the Workers' Party, with the support of the Right Party and the Advance Party – and SV, and I am particularly surprised by this – is drawing an entry into the budget for transport, which is particularly important for District Norway. There are few racial protection projects in the central eastern region, and then it might be wise to hide the lack of effort in this important area of District Norway in the regular national road maps. Similarly, if not continued as a separate item, the effort for fixed decks on national roads will also become less visible. We are going to follow closely, by the Christian People's Party, the information that comes in the budget proposal for the autumn, and in the national transport plan, to see if the progress on racial protection and on putting solid cover on national roads is in place. Finally, I would like to take a brief visit to the Aviation Agency. The proposal proposes an increase of 80 million in the operating performance of the Aviation Agency. kr by increasing the leverage of the regulatory fund. It goes on to say that the Ministry assumes that the reduction will not have an impact on the planned investments of the Aviation Agency in 2000. Later, information from the Swedish Aviation Agency has come out that this could have a major impact on the planned upgrading of regional airports. I would therefore ask the Minister for Transport to comment on this in his statement later. The Christian People's Party did not find any means of compensating for this post, but I can promise that we will come back to the matter in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan and the 2001 budget. For the Christian People's Party, upgrading regional airports is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e789	It is the case that very many of the issues mentioned in this proposition are dealt with tomorrow in the context of the revised national budget, so this is a debate that is kind of divided into two. Nevertheless, I will comment on some of the things that are inside this proposition that will also be taken up tomorrow. The first thing that really surprises me is the cut that the representative Sahl was on, on the short-range network. I record what it says, that you think it should have no meaning in the year 2000. I think this is probably money that will in the long term also be included in the Aviation Agency's financing plans, and that it will therefore have consequences if they are not reintroduced into the 2000 budget. The right is against this, precisely because of the fact that the Aviation Agency has been critical for a long time in terms of funding. There have been significant investments, and I think this in many ways disrupts the long-term plans of the Aviation Agency. This is also added to the fact that the majority refused to become AS, which would enable them to borrow the money. So now you take the money from them, so the Air Force action space gets significantly weakened, you ask me. When it comes to reducing road investment, it is not surprising that the Right is negative to it and in the revised national budget goes in to bring back the money that the Government is proposing to cut. But there's one area there that surprises me a lot, and it actually has a little bit to do with the debate on the Gardermoban that we had earlier this evening. So here we find that the ferry passengers in Norway, the collective passengers on the ferries, are suddenly going to get a 5 pst prize jump. – the same group that also received a prize jump in the state budget for 2000 about. 4 pst., so this total is approaching 10 pst. increase. At the same time, I heard in the discussion around the Gardermoban that very many people were concerned that there was no need for an increase in the train price for the public passengers. The context here is not quite good. One group must therefore be given considerable support, while others must not receive it. For large parts of Coast Norway, in fact, this is the only collective offering they have. When it comes to the gravel road package, the story is that I'm smiling a little bit. It is well that this gravel road package was originally a budgetary settlement between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in its time. So we, remembering a little bit, see how long the promises last. As far as these toll projects are concerned, there is unanimity in the committee, so there is no special reason to comment, because what it says is nice and pleasant for many areas. So there's this thing about racial protection grants. I can understand that some people think it's okay to have a separate post on the state budget, but it has an obvious disadvantage, namely the representative of Sahl when it came to tactical budgeting. There is also a tactical priority here, namely by not prioritizing a single racial security project within the county because it points to a post on the state budget. In my opinion, it must be quite clear that, of course, the county should also give priority to projects where racial protection is a problem. Of course, the county must give priority to the projects that they consider to be the most important, based on the resources they have. And you ask me, it's absurd that you should then pull out all the racial protection projects and not prioritize them because that's the government's task. I think we're getting a better priority than what's being done now, and can comfort the representative Sahl that the Right should also make sure that the districts don't get bad out of this where the racial security problem exists. So it's a little fun, and it's diesel compensation for express buses from Finnmark to Oslo. It's a little funny because it's actually the current Minister of Finance who was the most eager spokesman to introduce this. It is true that when you enter the door of the Ministry of Finance, most of them change character, and it is only to record that it has also been done by former faction leader and vice-leader in the Committee on Transport, when he has now changed his job to become Minister of Finance. As far as the railway is concerned, we've underlined that we're in on that 30 million cut. the amount of NOK to be paid by the Government. But we have strongly underlined, and also sent a letter about it, that we assume that this should not in any way weaken the safety of the railway. We've got confirmation of that, and that's why we agree that it can be done this way. I could say a lot about the UMTS license and the auction to the Progress Party, but we can come back to that tomorrow. But of course it's also a payment page about this. It is that they should be auctioned – we should have a coverage in this country – that is, it is the State that has to pay for the coverage of those areas of District Norway where these auctioneers will not expand, and it can be very expensive for the Norwegian State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e810	As the committee leader was in the room, there are many of the individual issues mentioned in St.prp. No 60, which is closely related to re-priorities and additional promises on the state budget for 2000, as found in the Innst. S. No 220 for 1999-2000 and also mentioned there. To many of the matters in St. Prp. No 60 doesn't have any central part special notes. I would therefore just like to comment on some of the issues and individual matters. In the revised national budget, the Government has proposed some changes in the field of transport. Some of the changes are redisposable, but the proposal also involves real cuts in the transport sector. And it's worth noting that the Workers' Party in the Governmental Position at first conditions reduces the licenses to the transport area. Just like that, there's a strong contrast to the statement that this batch came into opposition. I am very pleased that the Centre Party together with the other Centre Parties, the Right Party and the Progress Party have been helping to prevent at least some of the cuts proposed in the revision. Road traffic permits – as I believe most people know – are at a level that leads to a steady increase in the demand for maintenance, and on the investment side the funds are so small that more installations do not operate effectively. This will cost more plants. Few resources combined with increases in fuel prices have led to dramatic reductions in ferries being assessed by several states. If such reductions had been achieved, there would have been a significant reduction in the provision of transport in several districts. Eighty million. kr more for operation and maintenance, as a multiple goes in for, probably gives room to maintain the ferry service, at least in conjunction with a taxi service, which is also applicable. In the budget procedure in autumn 1998, a separate entry for racial protection was created. Obviously, here I and Oddvard Nilsen disagreed with the assessment of such an item. It has been developed an own racial protection plan, and in that plan it is well documented how extensive the hold for racial protection funds is. Geography in the country varies greatly from part of the country to part of the country. It also appears again in the scope of racial protection projects from state to state. The western states and parts of North Norway have the main gravity of the razed road. In my view, if we really mean to take the racial protection problem seriously, there has to be a willingness to allow funds and bet on the racial protection project. On the other hand, new construction and increased road capacity shall be covered by the normal framework. When a multiplicity concludes that the race protection item from the 2001 State budget is to be incorporated into the ordinary national roadside concessions, the race protection project must compete with other good road projects. I understand that this is both the Right Party and the Working Party I think is the right one, but I think it's unfortunate. The speed protection is so important that this area needs to be visible as far as possible. People who are dependent on constantly passing rascal distances, are quick to believe that the Storting is showing the will to allow concrete means for such a purpose. I would also like to comment to the extent that the post for investments in the line under the railway works. The Government's proposal involves reducing investment by 30 million. kr. The centre party believes the investment platform within the railway area is extensive. In particular, it is important to maintain investment related to increased security. So we're not the same thing as the proposed reduction. Finally, I will agree with the views expressed by Jan Sahl and Oddvard Nilsen when it comes to the Aviation Administration. I will not repeat what Sahl and Nilsen have already said, but I will also join in the call to the State Council to comment on the situation in the Swedish Aviation Agency. Based on what's come out in the media, it's so absolute in its place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e831	I'm going to start by barking, and the first red line in the margin is right next to the Air Force and the 80 million. kr. I have to admit that I am extremely sceptical of the signals that have come about which investment project could be affected by the increased operating result of 80 million. kr, which will result in a long-term reduction in investment. There have been signs that it could go beyond the technical operational standard on the short-haul network, which I believe is one of the most important priority areas in aviation. I am a little surprised that no one in the committee would point out that this should not be reduced, and that SV remained alone in the setting. We were open to change the comment if it was necessary to bring others, but no one wanted it. Then I'll blush on. It was not surprising that the representative of Nilsen and Right would not cut the road appropriations. It is perhaps more surprising that we in SV also said no this time. The reason for this is, first of all, that it has been proposed to cut off subsidies for county road purposes and to put solid cover on national roads, cut that is very district-friendly in its profile – and that is in the districts you have the biggest investment needs because you have a very bad cause. Furthermore, there is a reduction in national road investment, and then the Ministry is unable to specify and specify where the reductions are to be taken. I think it's very daring of us to be involved in reductions when we don't know what it's going to happen. I can help assess reductions when I know the consequences of them. When I don't know, I'm incredibly skeptical. So there's one thing that's a little bit interesting. That's when the majority of the committee gives a clear signal for starting up Midtun-Hop. After we gave this setting, I received a document from the chairmanship in Bergen, which sent the following questions to the administration: ‘The Presidency asks the Council to provide a professional assessment of the new road projects and cross-projects necessary if the new Midtun-Hop road project is to be built.’ The following reply was received on 12 May from the Councillor in Bergen: ‘Estimated plant start for Hop-Midtun is in the summer of 2000, with completion of the plant in 2002. The proposal for an action programme for the National Transport Plan, for the period 2000-2002, proposed by the State Road Authority Hordaland to use 60 million. kr. for the development of the cross on Poultry singers, and 50 million. kr. up to 4 lanes on the Sealine in 2002.’;» This means there's an extra cost of 110 million. kr for the necessary projects resulting from Midtun-Hop. There's one thing that has been reacted to before in Stortinget, and that's that you don't know the final sum of the project you're going for, because the one project you're saying yes to brings new investments. I feel that here we are on such a question again, where you say yes to start a project where the result is that new projects have to be built as a result of the first project. I have to say I had hoped that the majority might be a little bit more skeptical about giving a clear signal when you know that in previous projects you have criticised that you say yes, and then you don't get everything on the table when you say yes. I just want to make the other parties aware of the supplementary bill that is very likely to come. Then we have this matter about the racial security post. Then I just have to tell the representative Ringstad that it is not just the Workers' Party and the Right who want to remove it. That's going to be SV, too. The reason why we want to remove it is because it is not enough as a racial protection item. It's too small, it's too puzzled. But when it comes as a consequence that states do not want to give priority to racial protection in their projects, because they hope to get from a national post that does not fall within the county framework, this is going to be totally wrong. Either such an item had to be large enough to meet the need for investment for racial protection, or it has to go away. Since you want to remove earring, I would like to point out that this is a ringing. I think it's better to put it into the framework, because when you create the borders for the states, you have to take into account the racial protection needs that are there. This item did not at all function on the basis of what should be the intentions of it. I didn't finish, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e856	In the left hand side, you're happy that you've found room to add 80 million. kr in order to avoid a reduction in the supply of ferries, which would affect those who live and operate along our coast. They would be reduced in order to carry goods. The signal was that this would particularly affect the early paths and the late paths. That is to say, there were some islands in Norway that might have a longer closure period. It is also necessary to ensure better maintenance. Most people who comment on the road network and infrastructure want more resources for operation and maintenance. The aim of the fixed-cover item is, as the Government has also written, that this should be completed by 2003. I am very pleased that the government has said so. One's done adding a little bit to that, but one's going to be $30 million. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. When it comes to racial protection, I want to say from the left's point of view that it's got its own racial protection plan, that's to make the projects visible. I note that the representative of Nilsen is talking about the fact that it can involve tactical priorities on the part of the county. That father sees one, but it can also mean, as one has seen a lot of examples, that a person has used racial protection for the wrong thing. By getting your own plan, a separate post, one would somehow prioritize these projects, and the left was also willing to prioritize more means of racial protection. I am very pleased that the matter of toll financing and advance of a new road at Stokkajuvet on Row 542 has come. Planters are ready. It was actually high time the case came to the Storting, so that one could get rational operation there. Then I want to raise a matter where maybe the left also sits in a glass house, and I admit it. There are several who have been involved, both the representative of Nilsen, the representative of Sahl and the representative of Ringstad. It concerns the Aviation Agency. I think it's a shame that we haven't found room to add the 80 million. kr. That means it's 250 million. I share the concerns of the representative, Mr Nilsen, about what it can say. I think that we in the majority here in Stortinget who are involved in this, should also take inwards that there might be something to say for investments on the short-haul network and further operations at some airports. So I'm sorry for the organisation in the Aviation Agency – and there is also the Left in the glasshouse. How should an air carrier be organised in the future? I also want to get a signal from the Council of State about it. The matter has been returned to the Government. But one might have to look at this again to secure the investments there. So there's a lot of basic questions. I know that the Swedish Aviation Agency's board has discussed and will return to the autumn to bet on hotel operations in the vicinity of the airports. Is it then a public administration task to build hotels in the vicinity of airports? That means we in the Left should be up to the private business to assess the need for. We know that the areas, the area, around our airports may be expropriated and regulated for other purposes, one has paid a low price for it, and then one has to go out and compete on this market and maybe launch a risk project in competition with others. I stand here with a notice from Bergen's Official Journal that goes to the hotel business at Flesland. It also raises a number of problems related to the local self-government. When one has regulated an area so that one has a security zone – and we don't want business development too close to an airport – then one can also use those areas and leave them there and not go into competition with the business community, but perhaps allow the municipal councillors in their municipal plans and regulatory plans to decide a little on how to use the land. I want to get some feedback from the Council of State on this, because there are some basic issues that we want to address. In the Left, we consider taking this up as a matter of our own before the Board of the Aviation Agency continues with its plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e875	St. pp. No 60, On some matters in the Ministry of Transport, have been submitted in parallel with the revised National Budget 2000 and St.prp. No 61. It follows, of course, that all the appropriations have been dealt with collectively by the Financial Committee at Innst S. No. 220. Let me start by saying that for me, as Minister of Transport, it would be in isolation desirable to avoid proposals for cuts in the budget for transport in the context of the revised 2000 national budget. This is not least with regard to road budget cuts and the railway works budget. Of course, I am aware that there are major underlying needs in many areas of the transport sector, such as road transport. in relation to maintenance. At the same time, the country is served by a budgetary policy that facilitates a continuing high level of employment. Based on the current economic outlook, the Government has come to the conclusion that it is desirable to maintain the tightness of the 2000 budget adopted before Christmas. Due to a significant increase in the expenditure on the State budget, it has been necessary to propose comprehensive cuts. In this context, therefore, the budget for transport has had to play its part. I note that it is the majority of the Government's proposal to increase the operating performance of the Aviation Agency by 80 million. kr. In this context, I would like to make it clear that the overall objectives of the aviation policy are fixed and that this also applies to the investments of the Aviation Agency. Proposals for future investments in the Aviation Agency will thus have to be dealt with in the annual budgets in the usual way. In the context of the proposal presented here, we have made it clear, also by letter to the Committee, that the investments adopted for 2000 will be fixed. However, this could have consequences for recent years. We will come back to that in the 2001 budget. As for the question of whether it will affect regional airports, I would say that it will not hit them in particular. I know that in this context you have referred to media lookups, which we have also gone a little behind in the seams. It turns out that the Assistant Director of Aviation has not expressed himself in such a way, but more so has been added to it. With regard to the organisation of the Aviation Agency, I will also come back to this. Let me just say at this point that, to date, the matter is, in my opinion, marked by the fact that no good suggestions have been presented. In this context, we will also come back to the activities of the Aviation Agency, as the representative Vihovde was involved. As can be seen from St.prp. No 60, the road budget for 2000 is tight. There is a need for additional funding for ferry operations and operation of the road network with a total of 340 million. kr. In the proposal, it is proposed to be covered by redisposals from other areas of the road budget. In addition, a net reduction in the road budget of 73.5 million has been proposed. kr as part of the Government's fiscal stance. The majority increase of a total of 120 million. kr will be applied in the areas indicated by the Storting. In connection with the various specific veggies presented in St.prp. No 60, I am pleased with the support that Stortinget has given by the majority not proposing changes to the Government's proposal. I would like to stress that racial protection, regardless of whether this is still a separate item or not, must be at least as focused as before. For railway purposes, I would like to highlight the importance of a high degree of focus on safety. This is the background to the Government’s proposal to increase the budget of the State Railway Authority by 1.5 million. to ensure that this is supervised, inter alia, by: can strengthen the manning. As regards the 30-million cut proposal. In the budget of the Railway Agency, the Government has provided that this shall not affect measures with an impact on safety. Unfortunately, I have to say that a majority in Stortinget has not made room for 200 million this time either. kr as a final part of the restructuring grant promised for the establishment of Post Norway BA. From the Post Office's point of view, it is not satisfactory to live with such uncertainty, and unsatisfactory in relation to the tough changes that the company is currently facing. The remaining appropriations for the restructuring of the Item have now been postponed several times. I have noticed that the majority is in favour of the remainder being included in the 2001 budget. Against this background, I would like to express a hope or a strong desire that the debate on the 2001 budget be the last time we debate this matter. In the case of third-generation concessions, UMTS, the Government has submitted a proposal to increase the allocation fee. Recent experience in some European countries suggests that development and operational concessions can be more valuable than previously assumed. However, the Government has placed great emphasis on the use of tendering procedure with requirements for development as an important parameter for the award of such licences. I record that the Progress Party has changed its mind. They must be allowed to do that, but at the same time, I would like to stress that when they say in their comments that they are concerned about overturning costs on users, it seems strange to suggest auctioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e902	I want to take the aviation in this post and start by saying that aviation today is the only collective mode of transport where users fully cover the costs of investing and operating the infrastructure through the purchase of services as well as the sales of commercial services by the Aviation Agency. As the only form of transport, the infrastructure in aviation is fully financed by users themselves. Until now, airlines have chosen to contribute to the maintenance of the rural policy objectives set by the Storting. It is therefore necessary to examine the framework conditions of aviation. Today, airlines pay not only air charges that finance the entire system but 30 pst. of the total charges imposed on air carriers are fiscal, i.e. that they're going straight into the state register. Only Norway has an investment tax, only Norway has a CO2 tax, which in isolation results in an additional cost for Norwegian airlines, resulting in a competitive disadvantage compared to foreign companies. The charge for the flight of passengers primarily results in the price of air tickets being slightly higher than they would otherwise have been. It is absolutely necessary that all charges related to aviation should be reviewed and evaluated. In this respect, I would like to refer to a report by the Working Party on Competition Conditions in the aviation industry, appointed by the Ministry of Finance in June 1999. I expect the government to come back to the follow-up to this report. It is important that the benefits of civil aviation are also more valued. Keywords here are the need for quick access by industry to markets, the need for rapid delivery of parts and equipment by key industries, the need for health care to transport patients and medicine and the rapid dispatch of mail and newspapers. In the revised national budget, the regulatory fund is reduced by 80 million. kr. This means that some investments are deferred on time. This is not a good solution in the long term, as this gives little predictability, which is very important for the Aviation Agency and not least for aviation users. Unfortunately, former transport ministers have also had to speculate on the economy about taking a little away from the regulatory fund. We'll have to evaluate this in the future. In the end, I will again make the Air Safety Authority a visit. When this was established on 1 January 2000, it was clarified by the Transport Committee that the Air Safety Authority should have a crew of up to 120 posts. This should be borne in mind by the Air Safety Authority. I would also like to stress the need for aviation surveillance to include people with an aeronautical background. Of course, lawyers are needed, but equally important, for safety reasons, I believe that the Air Safety Authority is manned by pilots, air traffic controllers and other personnel with the necessary professional training.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e917	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e920	What made me take the floor was the representative Sahl's long statement on the Workers' Party's breach of promises. Then I want to describe the situation a little bit in the road sector. We've spent 190 million. kr more than that foreseen during winter breakage. In terms of ferry operations, we were missing 160 million. kr. It was therefore necessary to re-disposal that led to operations and maintenance and ferry operations to 350 million. kr. I want to ask the question: Is it district enemy that we're going to add asphalt in Northland and Troms to summer? And is it district enemy that we have to maintain the ferry service? The representative of Sahl was also very concerned with postal services. Then I would like to ask the representative Sahl why they chose to cut – with a simple grip – 200 million. kr in means of conversion to the Post, in a situation where the Post is in an enormously large period of conversion. The central parties are now jumping from the bill from the budget before Christmas. They promote a lot of things, and they have so much more money. It wasn't like that when these parties were in government. The situation has changed a lot in three months! Several of the centre representatives have also dealt with this with racial protection. Racial protection funds are not gone, but they have moved into the investment position, where they belong. What happened in 1999? The central government promoted its own racial protection plan in which they plucked out all racial protection projects from the current road map for the period 1998-2001 without bringing a single new krone, and promoted the plan as if there was a large investment in racial protection. If it's not to throw blues in people's eyes, I don't know!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e931	I listened a little to the representative Fallet and her view of air fares. What I felt a little needed was to ask the State Council or the head of the Workers' Party whether this was an expression of the Workers' Party's new aviation policy, or whether there was a high opinion from the representative Fallen about how she could imagine it should be, because I imagine relatively large conversions if that article was representative. The reason I took the floor was that I did not complete the article instead. I can really just add to the slightly indignant statements of the Minister of Transport when it was the 200 million. kr. It's very embarrassing for political life the way you've moved that bill many times, and it doesn't give any particular confidence that it's possible to trust politicians' promises. These 200 million. kr has been moved and promised at the next round several times, and they are very important in the phase of the Post. I also have to admit that I am very sceptical about the cut of 190 million. NOK for the purchase of unprofitable postal services. Ninety million. kr shall be taken through postage increase, but in the case of the remaining 100 mills. "In the short term, the reduction will not have any impact on the provision of postal services" in the Ministry's replies. And it is also said that «The post cannot still bear deficits in service production over time». I feel like the 100 million. kr is in order to obtain the budgetary balance sheet and that it will probably have consequences for the quality of postal services. That's why I think it's unfortunate, too. So here's the yellow card for the majority who cut the 200 million. kr that has been promised for a long time, but it is also near yellow card to the Government – at least charge now and in the next round yellow card – for cut off on the purchase of postal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e942	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e956	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e965	It has become very modern in the last few years here in Stortinget to talk about different transport packages. In a way, the package we have for treatment here tonight, Oslopackak 2, was the first package that the Stortinget had for treatment – it may be to go a little too far, but it was at least the Stortinget that was early in the process to make a decision that there was to be a plan for forced collective development in the Oslo and Akershu region. That decision was taken by Stortinget in the autumn of 1996. Seinere got that package called Oslopackak 2. Oslopackak 1 shows back on the Oslo pack, as it was in its time hot, the main road construction in the Oslo area and the establishment of the bombing around Oslo ten years ago and dragged it. Oslopack 1 came on its legs in due time because one had to solve the entrance problem in the capital area. Many of us remember how traffic was down Vålerenga – it was practically impossible to get in and out of the capital at certain times of the day. So one made a skipper roof and got started developing the road system. One is not finished yet, there are many roads left before Oslopackak 1 is realized. But over the last ten years, one has seen that it doesn't keep up with the road construction that you've done in the capital area. If the increase in the volume of transport continues in the same way, the new routes to Oslo will also be detonated in a short time, full of traffic. It is not a good solution that we have got new roads into the capital if the result is that we move the traffic from the old, bad roads and over to the new motorways that are being built. Therefore, local forces took the initiative to develop a collective action plan in the capital region. As I said, the Storting blessed it in 1996, and gave marshalls that a plan was to be developed. That's what Oslo and Akershus did. It has taken a long time – too long to say – from the adoption of the decision in 1996 until today we have the first round of treatment for Oslopackak 2. I want to include these words in the introduction because there are very few of the packages that Stortinget has been dealing with lately, as it is the Stortinge Sea that has decided to be developed. Or to put it this way: Oslopacket 2 is as far as I know the only package Stortinget sail has adopted was to be prepared. Today, we are going to decide on a piece of the financing plan in Oslopacket2, where it is outlined that the cost is to be shared between users in the form of increased toll tariffs and increased tariffs on the collective means of travel, in the form of local contributions and in the form of quite significant State contributions. What has so far been presented has a total framework of 24 billion kroner. The two main projects in Oslopackak 2 are the construction of new double tracks from Asker to Skøyen and from Ski to Oslo. There are many projects included in the overall package, many projects that will improve the infrastructure of the collective transport resources around Oslo, but as I said, the two double tracks are deciduous of the largest projects. Building the railway is basically a state responsibility. But we all understand that only these two fundamentally important double tracks cost NOK 13 to 14 billion. Funding for Oslopackak 2 and the priority projects we need to return to the national transport plan in the autumn, possibly in the new year. Today, therefore, we have been presented with the principles of financing the package and the proposal to allow the A/S Mountain Line to start ex ante collection of increased toll tariffs, which will then be used for collective transport purposes. But, as I said, I stress quite strongly that the real round of Oslopack 2 must be dealt with by the national transport plan. There is a good majority in the Committee on Transport in favour of the Government's proposal. The fact that the Progress Party has its position on the matter is not, in essence, surprising. The progress game has always signaled that they are opponents of the package. In fact, it was only the Progress Party that voted against when the Stortinget decided in 1996 that such a plan was to be drawn up. There were only six votes in the Storting against the proposal. So the Advance Party has basically behaved neatly throughout the road, sailing if I am deeply and deeply disagreed with the Advance Party in the matter. It is essentially a bit more surprising what kind of turn the right has taken in the matter so far. When I say surprisingly, it's because it's not least from the Right Town Council in Oslo, with the transport agency at the head, has been very keen to get Oslopacket 2. I also registered that the City Council was out and praised the Minister of Transport for what he had presented, when the proposition was promoted in the Council of State. I have basically no desire to start any polemics with the Right in relation to what the Right writes in their comments. I can see that as far as the Right has good points in what they're raising. The right does not signal that they are against the package – I think I am happy, but so I want the total treatment to be postponed to the treatment of the national transport plan, in and of itself a real point of view, sail if I had hoped that the Right would also be included among the majority today. What I especially want to express is what Right writes about the state's responsibility to finance the two double tracks, because it's basically the state's responsibility to build the railways in Norway. So the right is saying that you're willing to be involved in financing the two new double tracks using ordinary means. So feel if I'm not quite satisfied with the way the Right has done it, at least I think it's positive tones from the Right that one already signals that one is interested in being involved in financing the two new double tracks. Finally, I strongly recommend that we end up with the attitude of the Committee on Transport. I think it is unusually important that we can now get as much in place as possible, that the toll company Mountain Line is allowed to start the pre-claim, and that we return with signals that the state is interested in contributing funds to Oslopack 2 which will then go to finance what is the state's own responsibility; to build the two double tracks: from Skøyen to Asker and from Ski to Oslo. We look forward to the treatment of the national transport plan in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1001	Worker's party, centre and right-wing eagerness after taxing the drivers soon knows no limits. Fee inventiveness is on a continuous basis. The right-wing urban council in Oslo – well supported by the Workers' Party, as usual – started charging for the use of heavy duty tyres, allowed after it had been reviewed in Stortinget. Tyre noise and rush time charges are under assessment. Bombs are placed on the Jären, in Eastfold and in Westfold. In the collection from the drivers at all the toll stations, one has now risen to NOK 2.2 billion. Less and less of the revenue from the toll collection goes to the construction of roads. A lot of these toll revenues go away — to the administration, to bombers, and to interest. The last thing is that the little that's left is not to be used for road development either. Now the Workers' Party, the Centre and – incredible – the good old Right have also followed: Bombstations can be used for so many things. They probably got the idea from the old stories of the highway robbers who customsed everyone who wanted to ride through their area, just that the horse today has been replaced with the car. Today already 20 pst. of the income of the Oslo bombardment for things other than roads. Unbelievable 760 million. From the tolls in Oslo, these lots have so far been taken from the drivers to use them for public transport. And it's just in the Oslo bombing. I would like to refer to paragraph 2 of our proposal, where we want all of today's revenue to go to road development, which was the prerequisite for Oslopacket 1. Before Oslopackakt 1 is finished, some inventive souls come out: now we add another $2 to the bombardment, and then we call it Oslopackakt 2. Talk about a package! Had it been in the name of justice that these poor two crowns had gone to Oslopack 1 for road development, I should have understood that. But no, this whole increase is going to go to completely different things than road development. I must say that it is indeed wise to have the drivers as a dairy cow! For now, the drivers in Oslo have to pay for the extension of the tram, they have to pay for the T-Bahn, and they have to pay for the development of the Oslo area, etc. What will the next drivers pay? And when do NAF and the other car organizations get on the track? When does the NAF man dare to say that it is only the Progress Party that is on the scan for smaller taxes and taxes for the drivers? This year, the state will take in an amount of 40 billion kroner from the drivers, of which a total of 2.2 billion kroner in various bombings around the country. The government's expenditure is a little over a quarter. The drivers have become the Workers' Party, the Centre and the Big Right Dairy Cow. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party, which has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1024	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1027	Oslopackak 2 represents a long-term investment in public transport in Oslo and Akershus. We're a lot of people who've looked forward to this with anticipation. The case has taken a long time, not least because it has been necessary for both the municipality of Oslo and the municipality of Akershus to accept the use of tolls for the financing of collective actions. The traffic situation in Oslo and on the roads to Oslo is unsustainable in the rush traffic, which most of us have noticed. The forecasts indicate that traffic growth will continue. The air in Oslo is already heavily polluted, and car traffic is an important source of pollution. Therefore, we need to implement measures that can facilitate future traffic growth in the form of increased public transport. In addition, car traffic is very land-consuming. The areas in the capital are too valuable for us to use them to build ever wider roads. Oslopackakt 2 is planned as a spice layer between the State, the Municipality of Oslo and the County of Akershus. In addition, road users shall contribute. In the first instance, tolls for car traffic are increased by DKK 2 and ticket prices for public travellers are increased by EUR 75. The Proposition of the Government does not present the individual projects of the Oslo Package. Today, therefore, we do not take a position on individual projects and whether they should be part of Oslopackak 2. Nor do the projects mentioned in the proposal apply. Of the most important projects that are likely to be part of Oslopackakt 2, new double tracks are from Skøyen to Asker and from Oslo to Ski. Both are important projects to relieve the entry years of Oslo. The proposition reflects some of the assumptions of the municipalities of Oslo and Akershus County. We are not taking a position on these today. That doesn't mean we've accepted these assumptions either. This applies, inter alia, to: the State share, the final toll share and Oslo and Akershus' share of the costs. Nor do we see today’s decisions on the part of the Christian People’s Party in view of tolls and the duration of the tolling period as a final decision. I would like to stress that a majority of the central parties, SV and the Workers' Party require the Stortinget to decide on the scope of Oslopacket 2, the proportion of government funding and the principles of cost allocation when examining the national transport plan. This comment is essential for us on the part of the Christian People's Party to have been able to accept toll collection and user payment. I hope that the Government, when it submits its National Transport Plan, will show that it is able to see investment in the context, and that a rate of public transport where there is a basis for it, instead of further large-scale investment in road investments right there. Christian People's Party supports the setting. So a small note to the representative of Thore Nistad, who in real life, from the Stortinget side, has actually gone in for the toll financing of Rv 35 from Lunner to Gardermoen, in his own state. So it's sometimes toll financing can also be useful, I think we can say.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1055	The representative Nistad rose to the great heights here when it came to toll projects, and the representative Kofoed-Larsen remembered one project. I remember a couple of others. If I don't remember completely wrong, the Progress Party voted for the Triangle Connection, which is a toll project. They also voted for Hardangerbrua, if I am not completely wrong – it was not realised, but it was after all a toll project. So the story shows that it's probably not quite right that the Progress Party has never voted for toll projects in this house. I think there are many more cases as well, I should be completely honest. But then to the matter. In this house, the right has for a long time been involved in accepting user financing through tolls. We have done so under the following conditions: there should be local political agreement on the project. The project shall be a priority and shall be defined. There shall be a clear distribution between tolls and State contributions, and the booms shall disappear once the project has been disbursed. Over the last few years, we've seen a constant drift away from these assumptions. Toll projects become less and less concrete, and tolls are used for all desired purposes. The state's contribution is highly uncertain, and the tolls – the contribution – are drawn almost to an eternity perspective. Tolls are actually about to slip away from being a concrete layer of splinter on a project, to become a new permanent state tax. It is not surprising, therefore, that the parties that are most concerned with increased user payments are the same parties that want to increase public revenues by taxing more private individuals. The right has several times warned against the glide that we see now – I have actually done it several times from this pulpit. I would like to stress that this makes it more and more difficult for the Right to participate in such projects. We want to stick to the clear assumptions that were the basis of toll financing in its time. Oslopackak 2 as available per Today – and which is basically not an Oslopackage 2, but only a funding plan in the first place – is a good example of development and where it carries it. The majority decision relating to Oslopackak 2 in this case concerns what is quite correct in the proposition. The main purpose of the proposal is to allow for the introduction of road toll charges in the form of increased toll charges, and that is all. The proposal does not specify the projects involved, but assesses the projects to be included in the package in order to reduce costs and increase societal benefits. The only thing that's certain is that the drivers have to pay $2 and the public passengers 75 cents. But what the State is going to contribute, and which projects are going to be included, is not said about in the proposition. The principle that the trees are to be removed after the project has been disbursed has been replaced by: ‘... and explore strategies that can contribute to increasing the socio-economic benefits of Oslopackak 2.’ For those who understand it, this should be read as a road pricing. It means eternal booms. All of this shows that the right assumptions related to toll entry are not close to being met. Of course, the right may not participate in such a decision. We want to clarify what the state will contribute to, what projects will be undertaken, what the money will be used for, and also what it will be used for, in relation to the road projects that may be available. It will be very interesting to see what the majority who want to vote for the toll introduction that we are adopting today will contribute from state resources when we come to the treatment of the national transport plan. I think that Oslo's population should not be very optimistic about the state contribution, I fear that Oslo's population has to pay a lot and for a long time. So I just want to stress in relation to what myrli's representative was about, that the Right believes that building a railway is a state task. That's why we also found it right in the setting to underline it. The two double tracks are independent, you ask us. We believe it has a connection with the public transport in Oslo, but it also has an impact on the NSB and the whole country's rail network. Therefore, they can be seen completely separately from this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1082	In St. prp. No 64 The Stortinget is invited to take decisions to increase toll tariffs to partly finance measures in a programme of forced collective development in Oslo and Akershus. The size is not initially invited to decide anything other than an increase in toll rates. The Ministry states clearly that, among other things: is that a comprehensive effort is being made to ensure the quality of the estimates of costs. The distribution of projects to be included in Oslopackak 2 to reduce costs and increase societal benefits has also not been implemented. Yes, the department says this: «The available basic material is weaker than is required for a toll proposal which also takes a decision on the development of projects.» In addition, it is natural that implementation measures should first be discussed in the context of the national transport plan and that final clarification should be made in the context of the annual budgets. Although the proposition so clearly demonstrates that the basis for deciding on other aspects of this matter than the toll rate is not present, the Ministry of Transport comes up with an assessment of many more aspects of Oslopackage 2 than just the toll question. I find it totally unnatural and impossible to take a position on pages of Oslopak 2 which the Ministry of Transport says must be dealt with more closely, quality proof or seen in connection with the national transport plan. I'm in the middle of it as a group has said before about collective development in the Oslo and Akershus regions. It must be an objective to increase the collective part of this region. This must be facilitated by both infrastructure and material investment for different modes of transport. The growing traffic problem in this region cannot only be solved by facilitating increased private cars. The collective component must be increased. Oslopack 2 shall act as a split layer, with funding from the State, the Municipality of Oslo, the County of Akershus and from the road users themselves. But St. prp. No 64 does not provide a basis for determining the scope of Oslopackakt 2. As the majority in the Committee have said in the comments, I expect one to come up with a more detailed description of the individual projects in the national transport plan. First, when managing this plan, we will be able to decide on the scope of Oslopacket 2, the size of the State funding component, and the principle of cost sharing. In this round, the Central Party supports the proposal to grant permission to increase toll rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1106	There can be no doubt that there is a need for a collective vow in the capital. It is not possible to ‘build roads’ out of the transport situation. Yes, you can open a new road with more capacity, where you move the trafficker a bit further – and then you have to start a new project. And as you fill the city and areas around with cars, you get an increasingly poor environment, health problems, more traffic damage, etc. That's why there's a good intention in what's here in Oslopak 2 – a good intention to have a collective vow, and that the road user should also be involved in paying it. But it gets too puzzled out of the need. We need a much bigger lift than what it's added up to here, and I hope there can be signals in that direction. I fully agree with the rapporteur, Mr Myrli, who, among other things: were involved in the railway investments needed for the two double tracks in the Oslo area with a price tag of DKK 13-14 billion. With the level of investment on the railway infrastructure today, using each krona on these tracks would mean ten years of investment. But then we know that there will also be other things happening on Norwegian railway networks – on the Eastfold Railway or the Westfold Railway, the profile extension of tunnels on Bergensbanen or Nordlandsbanen. Each project may not be very expensive, but some of the money has to go outside this area as well. And if you're going to have government contributions to T-banning, etc., here we see that there's going to be very big government funds, and it'll take a very, very long time. That's why I think users, if you want to achieve the goals, the good intentions that lie here, have to pay more. I know it's not popular to say that, but let's raise the toll rate to $20! One extra five is 300 million. kr the year of additional revenue to apply to this promise. Then we can do this at a much faster pace, and now results. When we come to the treatment of the national transport plan, and I see that the framework for rail investment is tripled in the future in relation to today, no one is happier than me! Then we're going to be able to get to these double tracks fairly quickly. But I have little faith that we see some double, or triple. That's why I think Oslo and Akershus should take some signals that if they want to realize fairly quickly what they consider to be state tasks where the state is going to pay the entire bill, they have to go in for user financing in the case of railway projects. We also know that there are other projects in the environment, for example. a link is made to the Fornebu area. I am not going to discuss the debate on how glaring this is with IT Fornebu, because unfortunately that decision has been made. But maybe those who establish themselves out there have to pay for the transport solutions – I'm in doubt about this, I don't ignore trying to send part of the bill to the state. So there is a lot of investment that needs to be made in this area in order to achieve the collective solutions – in addition, investment must be made in the rest of the country. I would like to say the following: There are good intentions in Oslopackak 2. We're going to give our clear agreement to this, while it's important that we tell you that a greater pace is required, which, once again, means higher user payments. Moreover, it is good that there is a broad majority behind the desire for a collective effort. I'm also very happy that with the political composition we have in Oslo, there's a majority who think in those paths – yes, both the railway and the T-Bahn. So we get back to the more concrete things when we get the Transport Plan processed and hope that there will be a rapid collective lift in the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1132	First of all, the formality is that today access is given to an exceptional toll collection and toll payment in order to ensure a prolonged collective development in the Oslo area. The second formal is that which projects come and in what order are related to the national transport plan. So to the real: then I would first say that those who want results should be very careful to declare the projects as the genuine children of one or the other party. This doesn't happen without being willing to go together. For example, there wouldn't be a majority in Oslo City Council without forcing borders across the traditional right-left axis. And there will be no results if debates as it is natural to take place in Akershu County and Oslo City Council, are automatically transferred to Stortinget. It will only be a solution if a broad majority has the will to understand that collective action in a metropolitan region such as the Oslo area is a vital environmental effort and takes its consequences. And it doesn't help to have been a sperm donor for this project, if you're not willing to be a midwife and carry it on. That's the actual ratio. Then we'll get back to the child's growing-up conditions later. With regard to the practicalities of this part of the country, I should like to make just two comments. I am convinced that whatever you call it, Oslopackak 2 or whatever, the Norwegian railway network will not be able to function without anything else happening to the capacity between Oslo and Asker. The size will simply experience that bets, among other things. in Westfold, the situation today is such that Vestfoldbanen spends more time on Oslo than it did 20 to 25 years ago, because there is no capacity between Oslo and Asker. So regardless of whether we call this Oslopackak 2 or anything, this is a project you have to choose to do something about, if you want to have the network you have, and it has to have a reasonable priority. Then you get back to a realistic cost calculation of it and how to ensure it. Secondly, I would add: regardless of the child's name, Oslopak 2 or railway bet, it would be quite unnatural not to see the public transport in Oslo and Akershus, Østfold and Buskerud in a context. It's a relationship. It is a very comprehensive housing and labour market that needs to be dealt with, where transport tasks can be solved either by even more road development than that already in Oslopacket 1 than in the Drammenspakket, etc., or whether to decide that collective action can be kept under way in a certain way. It's a balance that I'm waiting for, when the government is going to deal with the National Transport Plan. I have another point. I believe that, regardless of the size of the investments, there is an independent need to work together between those who run the collective societies in these four counties, and the state to ensure that the resources you have at all times are used in the most efficient way possible. For my part, I am a follower of a model that I would call a Norwegian edition of the Pope's Choice. As you know, the Pope's choice is to put the cardinals inside a room, and they'll be there until they agree, and if they don't agree, it's really boring. The Norwegian version of this can be that the states of Oslo, Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold, with a clear majority, along with the state of minorities, enter a room, and you can call the room what you want, and you can come out again and disagree, and the world doesn't get any worse than before, and you can come out again and agree on something, and the world can get better and more coordinated. I would particularly challenge the Minister of Transport to evaluate such thinking. It's not a thought based on being able to command someone, but it's a thought that's based on the best in the Norwegian tradition of hard work and fissure, namely that you can either be won together, or lose together. And in this situation, it's also so that being a loser in the worst case doesn't get worse than the status quo. But we have to find some grip, and we cannot wait with these organizational grips until we have completed the investigation of the county council's position or the division of tasks between the administrative levels in Norway. Anyway, we're going to wait a while before we see the practical results. I also think the idea I have outlined here has some meaning for other metropolitan areas in Norway, but I don't want to go into it, because it's not natural to do it in this context today. When many district representatives here have a concern, it is easy to understand, because there is no doubt that many of the transport tasks beyond the country have suffered from what I called ‘state financial stupidity’ in an earlier phase of my life. And the state financial idiots can see the country around in the form of reticent tunnels. I think it's a task for the Storting, quite politically, to ensure that the narrow socio-economic understanding of the benefits of transport investment is shattered. I look forward to later rounds here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1156	There is a great need for further development of public transport in Oslo and Akershus. The metropolitan region is the country's most populous population, and traffic on both the road network and the rail network is largely characterised by cows and capacity problems, so that both business and other road users are subject to high transport costs. Traffic creates environmental problems, and the reduction of these problems is important both locally and regionally. The development of public transport in Oslo and Akershus has been a priority in the 1990s. 20 pst. of the bombing revenue from Oslopackakt 1 has been used for this purpose. In addition, the state's investment on the railway comes. The State has also made a direct contribution by facilitating collective investment in the ordinary road projects, as well as by alternative funding through public authorities and tolls for rail actions. In addition, the direct priorities of the State for the development of the railway are added. However, efforts have not been sufficient to avoid significant capacity problems, and growth in traffic is expected to continue. It is therefore important to establish alternatives and complements to increased road capacity and thus to provide for the development of public transport in this important region. The municipalities of Oslo and Akershu County have taken the necessary decisions earlier this year to increase the cost of bombing and public transport. The government has therefore now been able to present it also by the Storting requested the motion for a resolution on Oslopackak 2. The main purpose of the proposal is to authorise the introduction of increased toll payment in the form of increased toll rates in the blockade around Oslo. In addition, increased transport charges are assumed on public transport. These funds, together with government appropriations and local contributions, will be used to support collective development in Oslo and Akershus. The proposal sets out in principle the purposes for which State resources, local contributions and road transport charges are to be used. In Oslopack 2 there is broad agreement on the principles for the financing of the various actions. This means that the State assumes full responsibility for the double-track Skøyen-Asker and Oslo S-Ski over the State budget. Oslo Municipality and Akershu County Municipality are responsible for bus, tram and tram – with contributions to the financing of infrastructure from the state and by tolls. In addition, the direct responsibility of the State for the national roads comes. Collective funds from the national budgets of Oslo and Akershus — including the collective funds from Oslopakt 1 — all exceptional tolls and contributions from local budgets will go to bus, T-Bahn and tram infrastructure. All additional payments made by public transport operators are provided for in new material. Toll proposals usually require more concrete clarification of the scope of development, priority of projects, cost estimates and financing plan. However, toll packages cover many individual projects which are foreseen to be carried out at different times. The assessment of both needs, project design and project order will often change over time, creating the need for some flexibility. The project planning framework is often at the overall level and the uncertainty of the total costs can therefore be high when a toll package is presented. It will therefore be necessary to reconsider, inter alia: the scope of the package and the date of implementation of the roll-out of the national transport plan and the annual budgets. However, I would like to stress that normal planning requirements and cost estimates are assumed to exist before each project is committed and the installation is started – this will, of course, also apply to the projects in Oslopacket 2. As the Storting is well known, the Government will come back to the financial framework of Oslopackak 2 and its share, in the context of its national transport plan. Despite considerable clarifications in the Oslopacket 2 work, the Government believes that it is important that local decisions are followed up. As early as possible, the introduction of increased road charges will strengthen the financial framework of the package, and some practical work is still to be done before deployment can take place. It is therefore positive that the Stortinget now takes the necessary decisions. I also fully agree with the representative of Dørum that what we are now facing will require broad and good cooperation between the different municipalities, county councils and the state. I have noted the thoughts expressed by the representative Dørum and will try to establish cooperation in several ways. It is possible that the ideas expressed by the representative may be applicable in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1179	The representative Dørum pointed out that we should not argue about the fathership of this case, and I agree with that. I think we're going to have a collective responsibility for this, except for the Progress Party, which will have nothing to do with this matter. What we're facing is a very special matter and a very important matter. It is both a significant collective effort and it is a significant environmental effort we are facing here. And it's a thing that's been working locally for quite a number of years, because you locally see what traffic challenges you have. Even today the traffic scene in Oslo and Akershus is sometimes quite complicated, with long queues, with unnecessary pollution, with unnecessary time use, etc. And you're fully aware that this will continue to evolve in a worse and worse direction in the future. For this reason, what needs to be done has now been seen – possible collective efforts have been defined in the future. There is no doubt, as the representative Myrvoll said earlier, that building roads to get out of traffic problems in these areas of the country is an impossibility. It has to be invested in public transport, and that's what we're completely forced to do. I agree that we need to look at the whole region as a whole and add up to a kind of common transport idea for this area. Then I hope that it is also possible to look at the ability to move parts of the traffic from land to sea, that the maritime route will also be part of the public transport and collective services in this region. It's good for that, I should think, and you should look at what opportunities there are. So to this with the name 'Oslopackak 2'. Obviously, it doesn't matter what name the child has, just love it. But this is probably a name that doesn't necessarily hit well out among people when we get outside of Oslogryta and Akershus. Because this is going to be a giant bet in this area. But here I fully agree with the representative Dørum that this is a bet and a solution model that matters far beyond Oslo, Akershus and Buskerud. Without these solutions, there will be some kind of plug at both ends of Oslo, which has a huge ringing effect on traffic overall. So a few words to the representative Nistad, who gives us a picture that the drivers are people who really don't belong to society, the drivers are motorists – and just that. Once they have paid their tolls, this money will go to the drivers and nothing else. So now it's like -- and I'm talking from my own experience -- that sometimes I'm a driver, that sometimes I travel by public transport, that sometimes I don't, sometimes, that I'm a father, and my children have needed other kinds of solutions in society, etc. It'll be, I think, to the extent exciting and entertaining, but it doesn't matter if you're going to pick out different types of roles that we have in society, and then make it special. So that's the way it is, and I'm sure the representative Nistad has discovered that drivers can sometimes take the trick, sometimes go in the mountains, sometimes can do different things. When we have a society, it's about a total splinter layer -- how to organise this overall -- and therefore it's a little unfair to make these kind of boundaries and these types of ideas, with earmarks compared to who's paid, and what role they had just when they did. I don't think there's any good way to organize and run a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1192	Political terms and concepts tend to be more confusing than guidance. Oslopackak 2 is such an example. There is neither a package nor anything specifically aimed at Oslo, as it is now available. It is possible that there may be a package, it is possible that there may be more at Oslo, but at least that is not the case now. I understand that in the districts you may have problems seeing the need for a billion packages to Oslo, if that's how to understand. But most people who are going to use the collective efforts here, i.e. the double tracks Skøyen–Asker and Oslo–Ski, will not be Oslo people. It's actually a national issue to have a railway leading into the capital. I don't know where it's defined as a local case. It's a national case. So you could say that a further development of the T-banning in Oslo is in Oslo. When it's not a package, it's because the packages most people get, you usually get at a close or on a birthday, for example. But I guess we here in the hall aren't considered the most people. There is no obligation with the package. Here, in fact, the package has no end and no conclusion. There are not four sides to it, and it's not wrapped in. You could say this: this is – if you want to use a benevolent concept – a partial plan for some collective projects, and now you have to open up the payment. The case rapporteur said it was really very good himself, namely that the real, real round – I repeat the expression the real, real round – and really and really is the same, so he even said it twice up – comes when we are going to deal with the national transport plan. That's right. Hopefully, as the right point in the suspension, you will conclude with regard to the projects, the final cost framework, state contributions, local contributions, user contributions, and perhaps have completed the investigations. The last one is hope. The investigation after the adoption of the projects in Stortinget is not worthy of recommendation. In the transport sector, it has cost billions. Let's hope that might look like a package, for Oslo, Akershus and the rest of the country – a collective and cultural package. That's why the right in the ballot says that it's really not necessary to deal with this now, but it's become some kind of political symbolism to hurry. Oslo, who is going to collect money from the drivers, says that such an increase in rates will not start until the state's contribution is assured, and it is assured that the state's contribution is not until the Stortinge has adopted this. The latter is based on the Agency’s opinions. In this way it had not been hasty, but it is good to put it in place in a way, but really ‘in place’ – as the case-law rapporteur said so well – it does not come until the autumn. A small round also to the case rapporteur, Myrli, from Akershus: When you use the term bombing “rounded” Oslo, I would recommend a more detailed site inspection. It's in Oslo. That's a pretty big difference, because it's actually part of this city's population that's of the opinion that paying for local traffic is not the right way to pay for, among other things. collective efforts in other counties on. That's how it feels. I think it would also have been felt this way if we had put a bomb in the representative's home municipality, in the middle of the municipality, for example. between the swimming pool and the kindergarten, and a kind of charge had been levied for a T-Bahn bet in Oslo. It might have felt a little strange, especially if we said that the bombing was around that municipality. Finally, a word to the Council of State: you are right to say that not all road projects have been completed. Here you will collect money from the drivers to finance road-relief measures. I think it is quite important in the longer term for drivers and citizens in general to see a certain relationship between what you pay for and what you get back. That is why I would recommend that in the further course of what is now called Oslopak 2, you also look at tunnel projects that have not been completed. Governments will also be well aware of the need to provide land for an opera building not yet in place. It requires an exceptional road effort. I say extraordinary because it's not normally socio-economic going into the priority, but it's necessary for other needs. And the bulk of it belongs to the Council of State and his party. Finally, I would also like to point out road projects in Oslopacket 1 which have not been completed, which have been taken out, and which are today a handicap for the environment and traffic. In addition, I would like to point out new road projects that have significant socio-economic benefits and deliver significant environmental benefits – Oslo Vest, Mossevegen and out of Oslo Vest, to put it briefly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1212	I heard very carefully what the representative Dørum said. It's okay – agree with Dørum! But it is also a fact that Oslopakette 2 is a married child of the Workers' Party, with two fathers, namely former mayor Rune Gerhardsen and Akershus" County rapporteur Ragnar Kristoffersen. And the Workers' Party is a good match for this child. It's been over four years since they initiated this package. It's taken a long time. There has been a period of dispute between the State on the one hand and the Municipality of Oslo and the Municipality of Akershus on the other hand as to whether the local decisions were clear enough for the Bondevik Government to bring a case before the Grand Duchy of Oslopak 2. Whatever delays, I would like to thank the Minister of Transport, who promoted the grubbing-up proposal in May, and commend the Committee on Transport for its rapid examination. I am pleased that the Stortinge treats the proposition today and that the majority of the Stortinge support the proposition. In my opinion, Oslopak 2 should have been called the Eastern Package, since it is the most important transport measure in the East now. Car traffic in the Oslo area is increasing. There are many people who commute to Oslo by car from the neighbouring counties. This leads to increased pollution and noise, especially in urban areas in the centre of Oslo and in the Groruddalen. In order to reduce car traffic, measures need to be taken to make public transport more attractive. At the same time, restrictions on motor vehicle use and measures to reduce transport needs must be put in place. Public transport needs to be expanded in order to improve accessibility and reduce travel time. The promotion of public transport needs to be improved, including: through several collective holes and separate traffic lanes. An important part of upgrading public transport in Oslo and Akershus is the launch of Oslopackak 2. A marked investment in public transport in Oslo and Akershus through co-financing with the State will contribute to the development of public transport infrastructure in the Oslo area. I note that all parties have contributed to Oslopacket 2 being the largest collective effort in the Oslo area. The environmental situation, especially in Oslo, requires comprehensive measures to change traffic patterns, measures that could turn the transport from passenger cars to public transport. Oslopack 2 is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1227	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1230	I've got more visits here. At first, the Christian People's Party and the Right were out there and reminded that the Advance Party had also voted for a few rounds. That's right, we've done it, and we're clear in the program. I have on every occasion said that where we have a bridge that can replace a ferry, we can go in for a bomb where we have an alternative free way. The representatives of Nilsen and Kofoed-Larsen pointed out that I had gone in for Rv 35. Yeah, that's right, but there's a choice for the drivers. They can keep driving on the old road and don't pay, or they can drive on the new, nice road and pay 10 kroner. I can't believe it's going to be so hard for the Right to understand that we in the Progress Party want freedom of choice, but it's probably something left in the Right that you don't have freedom of choice there anymore. The charging procedure has obviously completely seized the Right. Now there are increased charges both on cigars and on high tires that run in the Right. Doorroom was concerned that no one had to have the father of this package, that more people had to share it, that no one had to be reminded of who had the fathership, but I will promise Doorum and all the others here that the Progress Party year after year will clearly and clearly tell who has the fathership of Oslopak 2, who has charged that tax to the drivers. At least I have to promise. I think that the result once tonight is that all the parties, except the Advance Party, have the danger of this extra charge. But it's not too late to turn yet! Then something was said about the drivers. They could go on a trip, and they could go on a bus, and is it so unfair that there should be high car charges? Well, when I take the bus, I pay for it. I can't believe it's so unreasonable that I have to pay to use the bus or the tram. Why do others have to come and pay half the ticket when I'm on the trick? I don't understand. I guess that's okay as long as you get a free lunch, but there's always someone who has to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1241	I'm sorry to have to take the floor again, but after the Council of State's statements, I ask him to notice what the majority says we're taking the position today, and what we're going to take the position for later. I quote from the setting - from what a majority consisting of members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and SV say: ‘The majority indicates that the proposal does not provide for a decision on the scope of Oslopackak 2 and that a detailed mention of the individual projects will be presented in the national transport plan. The majority assumes that the size of the national transport plan will determine the scope of Oslopacket 2, the proportion of government funding and cost-sharing principles.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1249	The progress party has never been interested in understanding how many deaths and injuries lie along the roads. They've never been interested in understanding what kind of health problems motorism creates, not least in cities, where the number of asthmatic diseases etc. only increases. They have never been interested in understanding it. Fill up the roads with cars – and it will be full, so build more roads – is their answer. But I'm not going to spend any more time on the Progress Party. It's a couple of Oslo representatives who have been talking about the fear of the district representatives of investment down here. I always get a little confused about it. I am one of those people who have said that we must build a railway in the Oslo basin, which has defended the necessity of the Gardermoban, who has said yes to the opera, and who have said yes to the Bjørvika project. And if I come north, it says, you spend so much money down there! And then there are Oslo representatives who say that everything we have here is national, and that's why the state has to take care of it. What you have out there is regional or local. It's important that Oslo representatives also try to think that some of what we're going to have is not national. It is not that we need to have a new double track Asker-Skøyen and Oslo-Sski for national reasons. If we give priority to those trains that run freight and regional trains that have some extent beyond the country, then we don't need any new ones. Then we can say that we don't have room for local genes. I don't want to say that, because I mean we need them. But it is not possible to produce all local rail traffic here in the Oslo area as if it were of national interest. I also think that representatives of Oslo should start to think that they also have local interests, and not do everything nationally. We would then have a more constructive debate between representatives from the districts and representatives down here. There is also something I would like to say to the Council of State: He said that the double track Oslo–Ski and Asker–Forest is the responsibility of the state, but then he must have a lot of money. He must have sought out a lot of money, because we've promised a little bit about safety on the railway, and there's a job to be done. We know there are some crossing tracks here and there – maybe not very expensive, but it costs a little – some profile expansion. In addition, the Workers' Party has been instrumental in saying some positive things about the need to invest on the Eastfold Railway and on the Westfold Railway. I also remember the Eidanger Tunnel, which has been on the map for a long time, and I'm not going to mention the Ringerix Railway. Investment projects on the railway side also exist outside Oslo and Akershus. I think actually the representative Foss might also have to remember that the right has never had a particular amount of money for the railway. And if it's a national responsibility to get to Oslo-Ski and Skøyen-Asker, then right cough up a little more money than what they use to do to the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1264	The representative Foss said there were no commitments with packages. That is possible, but since there has been a lot of discussion today about the fathership of Oslopak 2, it at least follows, without me being any expert in the field, some commitments with fatherhood, as far as I know. I am actually a little surprised at some of the points the matter has been made today, with what the right representatives have said from this pulpit. Nilsen, Head of Committee, said, among other things: that we do not know which projects the State should contribute to. I just want to stress that it is not that Stortinget now decides that we should send out checks to Oslo and Akershus, which they can now use to do what they want. The State shall grant the State budget in the coming years to build the two before those double tracks. I have to admit that I really don't understand what is the issue of whose state funds are to go exclusively to railway investments, as the Right says in the setting: ‘It's a state task to build a railway.’ I don't really understand, as I said, what is the problem. I hope that, after the last days of our separation from the Right, we will be good friends again in connection with the National Transport Plan, so we avoid “divorce” and get this in place. I think it's a little surprising, and also a little disappointing, that it's now said that the two double tracks should be seen separately. Then I wonder why Stortinget decided that an overall plan for collective development should be drawn up. Should not rail investments be part of the overall plan? After all, it is the whole process of thinking behind Oslopack 2 that railway investments and other collective investment must be seen in the context. But the state's contribution to the state budget – and I stress it once again – must go to railway investments. I hope that we will now have a majority for what is in the committee's position, and that, in the context of the national transport plan, we will return to the framework for financing railway development by the state. And as I said, we've been discussing the fathership of the «child» Oslopack 2 here today. We can discuss that, but in the future for the child, we can at least conclude that the child needs a significant amount of cash support in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1281	I am not going to take part in the debate on the danger, but it is tempting to note that, on behalf of the Progress Party, the representative Nistad must be regarded as childless. As far as this is concerned with the decisions of the City Council and Akershus County Council, it is correct, as the representative Foss says, that there is a pre-requisite to see the state contributions before starting the collection. But there is also the point, because a good deal of preparatory work is required in order to increase toll tariffs. And it is necessary to use the time from now until you see what I expect you will find as a satisfactory framework in the national transport plan, when that time comes. So it doesn't matter whether you take a position on this right now or later. With regard to the construction of roads and public transport, it is absolutely necessary that we have roadside measures in this region. It gives better accessibility on the roads. It cannot be produced in such a way that it is either roads or public transport; however, there is a certain amount of people going on the same route. I would like to stress that it is also necessary – and I will come back to that – with concrete road projects. We need to have space for two thoughts in our heads at the same time, and both of these thoughts and even more we'll get back to in our national transport plan. I'm fully aware of what the majority is proposing that we decide today, that is to allow a higher toll collection, and that they reserve the right to return to the priorities of the transport plan. I want to refer to what I said in my main post, in relation to Kofoed-Larsen's posts. In the case of the representative Myrvoll, and if we have a lot of money for the railway, the answer is, yes, we have to invest a lot on the railways in the coming years to realize these projects and also other necessary projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1294	The representative of Nistad has spoken twice and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1298	The representative Myrvoll claimed that the Progress Party was not occupied with the dead and damaged in the traffic. Yes, that's absolutely what we are. We want to expand the motorway class A. These roads are five times as safe as the little roads. We want bypasses to reduce traffic accidents by 20 pst. That's what's going to result in a reduction in the number of injuries and deaths in traffic. Finally, in connection with Gustavsen's statement, I just want to say that yes, I have children, but I pay the packages to my children myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1305	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3780]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1319	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3781]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1334	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3781]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1348	Just a brief comment. When these salary adjustments are dealt with in the Storting, it is always recommended by the Government that full coverage be provided for the salary settlement. And the Storting always joins in unanimously, there's never a comment on it. I just remember it. Before today we have discussed the local economy. There is not as good a thing going on, there are problems both in finding cover for the payrolls negotiated by the State for teachers, and not least for the necessary wage increases resulting from the negotiations conducted in the local government sector. There is a great need for good pay and employers policies in the public sector in general, because we are facing a great need to recruit and maintain skilled and skilled professionals. I just want to remind you. I agree with the setting, but I have to say that I like this discrimination very badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1357	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3781]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1371	The social security scheme for 2000 is in port, and a majority of the Social Committee has noted with pleasure that agreement has been reached between the Norwegian Pensioners' Association, the Organisation for the disabled, the Landsorganisation in Norway and the Government in the discussions on this settlement. The agreement between these organisations and the Government involves an increase in the basic amount of NOK 2140, to NOK 49 090, with effect from 1 May 2000. When examining the State budget in the autumn of 1999, the Stortinget adopted new guidelines for the regulation of pensioners’ incomes, and it is clear from the minutes of discussions between the organisations and the Government that these guidelines have been used. Furthermore, the minutes of the discussions show that the expected annual salary growth for all groups in 2000 will be 3.9 pst and that the outcome of the discussions will result in an annual growth of 4.2 pst. It is also very positive that there is now a consensus that one should take into account both expected and historical wage developments in determining the basic amount. This means that in the years to come, we can have a regulation of the basic amount that is in line with the development of income elsewhere in society. The public interest as a supporter of the Norwegian welfare system has also been discussed by the parties, and it is positive that the parties are open to dialogue on the challenges of popular concern in the years ahead. I would like to pay tribute to the parties for the prudence of the discussions and for reaching a joint recommendation on the social security settlement for 2000. I refer to the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1390	The representative has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1393	Mr Bendiks H. Arnesen pointed out that the parties also in the discussions looked at the public interest as a pillar in the future. Yes, that's right, and therefore it is also important that the trust in this support is maintained. But then you cannot over time expose this support to so much rust that it finally breaks down. And that's probably what we've seen over a long, long time in terms of the individual social security arrangements in this room. We've seen a deliberate underregulation of the base amount. It's happened in most of the last 15 years. The purchasing power of pensioners in relation to the purchasing power of employees has deteriorated significantly. It has been implemented, which – I would say – are so-called negotiations. Meetings have been held on 30 and 31 May. And my first question to the Council of State is, how can you assume that the expected annual salary growth for all groups in 2000 is going to be 3.9 pst.? All the figures I've seen in the media regarding the expected annual salary growth have been significantly higher, 4.6 pst. And besides that, it's possible you haven't taken the two days off, that they've been kept out. The president of the Norwegian Pensioners' Association says in Fädrelandsvennen on 6 June that pensioners will receive a crown adjustment when employees take out their two new holiday days until next year. I find this nothing in the minutes, and I have read them reasonably thoroughly. I hope that at least the Council of State can explain this. What's this right over here in the 3.9 pst? in the case of the expected annual wage growth? And what is said in any negotiations about what you will come back to when it comes to the two holiday days? In recent years the party has tried to increase the basic amount in this room, given that the purchasing power of pensioners is not in line with the development of beneficiaries. Therefore, the Progress Party, as the only party in the Social Committee, has a different proposal from that of the Government. We are therefore promoting our proposal to increase the basic amount by NOK 2870. When reference is made to negotiating on the basis of the guidelines, that is quite correct. You have a duty to do that, because it is the Great Britain that has made the guidelines. But it's still the same problem in these guidelines that has been there for many years, and it's the two words that you have to have the same income development. As long as you have those words in the guidelines, the basic amount may be subordinated to the income development of the rest of the population. In doing so, I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party, which is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1406	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1409	The Christian People's Party is pleased to note that the social security partners have found agreement despite large distances between the requirements of the organisations and the offer from the state. As you know, the organisations demanded an increase in the basic amount of NOK 2870, while there was an agreement of NOK 2140. This gives you a growth of the base amount of 4.2 pst. In addition, an escalation plan was required from organisations to increase the basic amount. This has not been met. The figures in the proposal show that the basic amount increased from 1997 to 1998 by 5,8 pst, and from 1998 to 1999 it increased by 4,5 pst. In addition, when looking at the strong growth rate at the minimum pension rate in the spring of 1998, the figures clearly show that it was under the Bondevik Government that pensioners got the best social security schemes. At the same time, we know that in both of these years there was a break in the negotiations. This finds the Christian People's Party to be a cause for reflection. The Christian People's Party considers it important that the minimum pension is of such a size that you can live on it. The sharp increase in the minimum pension in 1998 was absolutely necessary to bring minimum benefits to an acceptable level. Of the beneficiaries who received social assistance in 1997, about 20 000 received such benefits each year from 1993 to 1997, 6 000 of whom were unsatisfied. One shall have declared that the fear of the people is a security made by men for men. Let's think about some of the numbers that we can figure out in the proposition: in 1967, 82 psts were earned. of men of working age raising supplementary pension in the social security system, while only 31 pst. of the women did this. In 1998, it was 79 pst. by men and 66,8 pst. of the women who earned pension credits. The proportion of women making up pension points has been in continuous growth since 1967. Another interesting table in the proposition is the one that shows the average pension score for women and men. In 1967, the average pension rate for males was 3.55, while that for females was 1.88. In 1998, the average pension score for males is 4.41 and for females is 3.13. We see that there has been a strong growth in the average pension score for women, but we should note that men had a higher average pension score already in 1967. Women's low points are due to the fact that a large proportion of women are part-time workers and that we have a two-part labour market where traditional women's jobs are less paid than men's jobs. In addition, there is a problem that many of the women's jobs are the heaviest jobs we have, not least in the care sector. As a result, many women are unable to go into full-time work. For many, many years to come, men will have far higher payments from the population than women. 39 pst. of the old-age pensioners and 23 pst. by non-pensioners, the minimum benefits are derived from social security. The vast majority of these are women. One of the major challenges we are facing is how we will face the expenses of the future in the fear of the people. Proposition shows that the number of persons who are unfit for work is still growing. More and more powers do not participate in the labour market. We also know that many people want to be at work, but they don't have the power to get into work, not least this concerns many people with disabilities. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to put in place measures that will allow more people to stay in work. We need to bet on a more inclusive working life. It is important to facilitate the use of the individual’s residual capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1442	On the settlement of last year, no agreement was reached between the parties on the adjustment of the basic amount of the social security. At the time, SV adopted a rather similar approach to that of the Progress Party, by wanting to increase the basic amount by more than what was agreed by the majority at the time, and that on the basis of the argument that there should be a trend in pensions in this country that is equivalent to the usual wage developments in the labour market. We register this year that the parties have reached an agreement, and SV sees no reason to intervene when both parties agree on a settlement. That's why this year we don't do what we did last year, that's to put in our own proposal. We will thus support the settlement that has taken place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1449	In view of some of the contributions that have been made, it would have been fully possible to make this a broad political debate on pension systems and inequalities. It is now that we have a pension system that reflects the differences in income in working life, and it has been done until something more basic has been done about it. We think that once the parties have agreed to an adjustment, it would be striking when one first has negotiating systems for these pensions, if one were to make divergent proposals. We also believe that once such cooperation has been found, and we also think it follows the guidelines laid down by the Storting, there should not really be any reason why the Storing should not unanimously end up on this today. If not, you're really just undermining the question of whether you're going to have negotiations in this area. For the Right, we think it has been important to have negotiations as corrective, and we also think it is important that we follow it when it has become unanimous. We think that the arrangement now available seems to be in line with what was laid down by the leaders and guidelines of the budget in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1456	As previous speakers have said, popular fear is a pillar of our welfare society, and it is positive that we also have a negotiating system that allows consensus between the state and the parties affected. Now, of course, a question can be asked, such as: The progress party makes in the vote whether or not the representativeness is present in the negotiating system, but I think one should respect this negotiating arrangement. There is a tidy arrangement and a great tidyness in the discussions, said the case-rapporteur, and I agree with that. But it is with some wonder that we look at this year's negotiations and agreement, because these negotiations have achieved relatively little in relation to what was required. There is a relatively large gap in the amount of crowns between claims and the agreement on monthly supplements, and no agreement has been reached, as the organisations required the parties to become, on a plan of escalation of the basic amount to compensate for past under-regulations. This escalation plan has been called for before and has been part of the basis for having had problems with the negotiations. This year, on the other hand, the negotiations have ended with conciliation, and one questions whether it is almost weather- and wind-dependent to agree to these negotiations, or not. What political climate exists and what political winds blow, has some influence here, suggests this. But it's good that you've come to an agreement. On the other hand, like the representative Nesvik, I am also in doubt about the estimated annual wage growth of 3.9 p.m. is sufficient when we see what kind of paycheck we've had. In addition, there may be some concern about the development of public welfare and social security payments. The increase in the number of disabled people has been mentioned here, as well as the trend with an increasing share of high supplementary pensions, which makes it possible to discuss our social security system more thoroughly on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1465	I can in itself agree that it is necessary to have an ongoing debate on the social security systems that we have in this country. But first of all, we now have what we have, and second, what we're negotiating, and what the Storting is deciding on, not the social security system as such, but the regulation of G. That's what we've been talking to the organizations about, and that's what we've come to an agreement on. G is in many ways the pillar of our pension and social security systems and affects a number of areas in relation to pension and social security payments. Therefore, it is important to note that the Storing has pointed to both today, in the committee setting and also in the past, that G is regulated in such a way that the income development of pensioners and social security members is similar to that of the employee groups. Now this will vary according to the employee groups you compare with. That is why the discussion system we have with the organisations needs to have continuous administrative contact, so that we can at least initially agree on what we are going to discuss, discuss and negotiate. And we're emphasising that we should continue that race, that before the real negotiations are started, where demands and offers are presented, we should have discussed through the calculation basis. Now it is that, as a whole, the wage and salary line had a wage and salary development for employees in Norway in 2000 calculated at 3.9 pst. That's the pay supplement you get, that's the calculated overhang, and that's the calculated payroll. There is not one employee in this country who gets out neither one penny nor one tenth of an hour on vacation — it is until next year. It is therefore not possible to take into account estimates which also include the provision for holiday pay in the year’s settlement. It also accepted the organisations we had discussions with. So we're going to have a challenging task for next year to discuss how to find the balance between wage development, welfare development, i.e., conditions where employees choose to take out some of their pay on vacations and how to make this happen in relation to the settlement and regulation of G. But that's something we'll have to discuss for next year, and that doesn't in itself affect the payroll this year. But that is why, contrary to what we have done in the pay statements, we have said that we have regulation of discussions and negotiations also until next year in connection with the regulation of G, while for the other employee groups we have already established that it is a two-year agreement. So the Storting will get a new round related to these questions for next year. But I'm fully aware that it's going to be challenging, it's going to be a challenging discussion, and it's going to be a challenging process, at least to agree on what should be the basis of calculation. That is why we have been concerned, both with the future challenges of the population, and in particular to discuss the basis of calculation, that we have a close and close cooperation with these organisations throughout the year. In conclusion, I have to say that it is quite clear that the Stortinget and the Government are going to face major challenges in discussing the social security system of the future in this country. But what we have to be concerned about all the time, and it has something to do with the credibility of the agreements we have concluded, is that we do not weaken the contract we have entered into with the Norwegian people by establishing the popular security as the pillar of our social security system. The challenge I feel is more to prevent people getting out of retirement prematurely than to discuss the rules and sizes of the pension they're going to have. What is our biggest challenge is to prevent us from having a working life that evolves so that people will have to unpension at the age of 55 instead of being able to use their skills and working capacity up to the age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1483	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1486	The councils started by saying here we're talking about social security, and here it's about regulation of G. It was important that we were ready. And then he ended the article by talking about the second angle, towards work. And that's where I agree with the Council of States, it's clear that we have a number of challenges in that area. I would just like to make a few small comments, first of all to the Christian People's Party, which expressed its concern, among other things. for women in terms of pension development, and concerns about what has to do with the development of income. I thought that the Christian People's Party had just sat in government and had the opportunity to do something about this. But anyway, the same party delivered two social security bills and continued to underregulate what had to do with the basic amount of the population's fear – so that's an interesting angle. The representative of Lutvold was also involved in some things that I agree with, but also to the representative of Lutvold – the centre party also participated in the government that went off a few weeks ago. Then to the representative from the Right, Erna Solberg. Well, I'm not surprised at the Right View, for the Right has always gone in for what the Government has come with, whether there has been agreement or not. I have participated in only three social security settlements, where I have been the case rapporteur on the previous two, and the Right has never made a single contribution to the social security settlement. You buy what comes from the Government, whether it's agreement or not. That's why I'm not very surprised. And they have always, while I've been here at least, also played with the Workers' Party and still underregulation of the basic amount. I ask myself when to stop underregulating the basic amount. And then I come to the representative Ballo a little bit. In the previous social security schemes, the party to the progress and the SV have partly agreed on a number of points. Among other things, we have had the same concern about the underregulation of the basic amount. And I think it's a little sad that SV, which I had actually expected the most from in this case, could not follow up a little in connection with taking back some of the lost in terms of the underregulation of the basic amount. We can't go on underregulation, because then the pensioners get into a situation where the gap between what you had as an employee and what you get as a pensioner makes you unable to maintain a certain standard of living. Therefore, I hope that sooner or later you will remove these words ‘once’, which you are hanging over and over again when it comes to regulating the basic amount. It seems as if the words ‘on the ground’ are the big loophole in regulating the basic amount of the population’s fear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1501	I do not intend to extend this debate very much, but I perceive that what the Progress Party says is pure games for the gallery – and it is fortunately not fulfilled either. As far as the discussion is concerned, you have to act fairly neatly. I also think that in what Ola D. Glötvold pulls in, clearly shines through the fact that he believes that the parties should have behaved differently, namely, they put as many chains in the wheels as possible for that settlement – because they did last year. Well, that's kind of what you can read out of Glow. The same is true of the signals of the Progress Party, namely that the parties, at least when the Pensioners' Association and other participating organisations, such as the Organisation of the Disabled and the LO, were not to know their own best or the best of their members. I think that at best is a rather arrogant approach. There must be such a degree of tidyness when you have discussions or negotiations, that you actually respect the result you get when the parties agree, and you don't get involved in a settlement. On the other hand, if the parties do not agree, as was the case last year, then there would be no need for the Storting to use the influence it is given. And there I disagree with the approach the Labour Party likes to choose, namely, that you say you don't want to get involved in the Government's approach. That's exactly what the Storting is invited to do if the parties do not agree. The parties now agree, and then there is no reason why the Storting should make proposals other than the parties themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1514	Harald T. Nesvik has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1517	The representative Ballo refers to games for the gallery. Well, that's not it! The amount promoted by the Progress Party in its proposal is identical to that required by the Pensioners' Organisations, the FFO and the LO in the negotiations. So I've asked the question in the past whether there have been real negotiations, because it almost resembles a dictatorship. The Progress Party is on its proposal. It's in line with what the organizations asked for, and we take the organizations seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1524	A very brief line to the representative Ballo. I don't want the parties to jump on each other's wheels in an untimely way. But what I was wondering was that they broke both in 1998 and 1999, when they had the best social security settlements that have been in recent years, and that they had such a good conclusion and approach this year, when there is such a great distance and the amounts are not greater.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1531	Just briefly: the representative Nesvik seems to suggest that there have been no real negotiations. I would strongly distance myself from that. We treat the organisations that negotiate with the state with the greatest respect, and there have been good discussions initially and hard negotiations during the process. So to think that there are some people here who run some game for the gallery, it would be a very big misunderstanding at best. So the representative Nesvik says that G is subordinate. This year G is over-regulated, because the Storting has stressed that it should also seek to take account of developments over time and the way you see wage developments in the future. Therefore, the framework of 4.2 pst., while the framework of wage settlement, what is actually paid this year, is 3.9 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1538	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3782]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1552	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 35 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group, and five lines with replies after the contributions of the members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1563	Initially I find reason to remember that St.meld. No 19, On Norwegian agriculture and food production, among others started with St.prp. No 8 for 1992-1993, Developed agriculture. The Communication continued the policy pursued in the 1990s by the Workers' Party. When the Government of Bondevik did so, it can only be due to the recognition that the process initiated by former Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Øyågen was necessary. In the opinion of the Workers' Party, St.meld. No 19 a good description of the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture. It also outlines a number of measures which could well have been prescribed by a Labour Party Council. The Bondevik Government pointed out, among other things: in the following key policy fields: Meeting consumer demand for lower prices and maintaining competitiveness in the market is essential to ensure Norwegian food production in the future. Differences in food prices to our neighbouring countries should therefore be reduced.The competition situation for the Norwegian food industry has worsened in recent years. Part of this industry depends on competitive conditions in line with EU industry. It is also essential for agriculture to have a balanced market. And the Communication states that pricing should be the main instrument to avoid permanent surplus problems.Government Bondevik also pointed out that WTO negotiations would put the greatest pressure on productivity-oriented aid, which includes both protection aid and price support from the budget. The size joined the above-mentioned conclusions of the Bondevik government. Because of the behaviour of the former government parties in relation to today's case, I think this should be remembered. One of the industry's main challenges today is to see more clearly in the growing border trade with our neighbouring countries, especially Sweden. And there's going to be even lower prices. This development must meet the industry actively. It's only through a predictable and offensive attitude that we can avoid being overrun. One of the instruments described by the Government of Bondevik was the need for moderate development towards larger holdings, which the majority of the committees, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, joined. The report mentions, among other things: that the economic instruments relating to the type of production, the number of animals, the area and the quantity of production should be applied to the minor uses to a lesser extent. In the case of use which facilitates professional operations, income opportunities are more closely linked to the production of agricultural products, and the Bondevik Government would give priority to these types of holdings in the design of the financial instruments. It's this day's government taking seriously. Norwegian agriculture will continue to depend entirely on large public transfers. But transfers can't be greater than today, almost 13 billion kroner, on the contrary. The size has previously said that the transfers have to go down. Then we have to prioritize, in the sense that to get a few more, others have to get less. To suggest something else would be to trick both yourself and the nutritionists. It is regrettable that the organizations broke down this year's agricultural negotiations. The industry would no doubt profit from reaching an agreement, both in the short and long term. They should know that going to Stortinget didn't help to get a better result. As a result of the breakup, the co-operation climate between industry and the authorities has also been acidified, to put it mildly. It has not made the situation any better that the former government parties have done nothing but whip up the mood after the negotiating break was a fact. As representatives of the responsible authorities, they should have helped to mitigate the contradictions, not strengthen them. There is then a far more constructive contribution from the farmers and small farmers team when they state that the challenges cannot be met with increased transfers but that re-priorities should be made within the given framework. That challenge should be addressed by the authorities at the next crossroads. Let me make it clear that I am not taking the Farmer and Small User Team for income for what is on the table today; I do not have a basis for that. I hope that, despite the party political drive of the centre parties, it will be possible to recreate a good climate of cooperation between the authorities and the organisations. In my view, it will be important for, for example: to prevent the severe priorities that still need to be set to be taken into account by no-one. It may assist organisations in their close contact with the individual exerciser. And it's as well known when the changes happen, that the possibility of influence is greater. The centre parties have used hard shots against the Workers' Party in this matter. Words like broken promises, adultery, dishonesty, and betrayal have swirled in the air. In substance, there is no basis for such overreaction. The reason can only be found in their party-tactical assessments, where the need to distance themselves from the Workers' Party and their own government positions has been decisive. The fact that the parties today do not promote their own alternative proposals, but just want to send the whole matter back to the Government, underpins such an assumption. Unlike the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, the Workers' Party considered it serious to support the measures that we agreed on: Since we supported the message's emphasis on the importance of ensuring the availability of incomes on the use of which the industry itself has an impact on recruitment, we were serious about it.When we wrote that agricultural professionals are self-employed and that the industry's own adaptation would have a decisive impact on actual income development, we thought.When we said that we would ensure active practitioners an income development in line with other groups and at the same time pointed out that a good exploitation of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments would have an increasing impact on the achievement of such income development, we believed that. We did not believe that income development should be ensured solely through transfers or given over the state budget in line with the increase in the salary of government employees.When we supported the Bondevik government's conclusion that the financial instruments in the agricultural agreement had to be redistributed, we believed that. And all of this we were together with the center of. Of course, the degree of structural impact can be discussed. If the centre batches really wanted to mitigate the effects, they could achieve it. The working party was willing to discuss it. But they chose to run a cynical party political tactic without taking into account those who are now affected by changes to which the same batches have previously participated. When the parties saw that what they had been involved in, in any case, would have consequences, they did not dare to take co-responsibility, but chose a total discharge. As I said, a few have to be less when others are going to get more of the same pie. There is no need to hide that today's proposals can affect differently, and that some farms that we want to take care of can have a more difficult situation. I would therefore recommend to the Ministry to assess the practical and economic outcomes of the grant changes, especially for the combined use, up to the next round of negotiations. The timing of the full effect of the tax deduction has also triggered a strong use of words. If a reader reads the wording of the notification in the context, it is difficult to understand that it can be interpreted differently from that of the ministry. The tax deduction shall compensate for loss of income when reducing target prices. The tax deduction and reduction shall correspond to each other. In addition, there is not a single spelling that can be interpreted to mean that half of the deduction, several hundred million dollars, is meant as a mere net transfer without any kind of return. The Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left have also been driving hard because the farmer's income will go down by NOK 5000. I expected them, as responsible political parties, to make it clear at the same time that the calculation was not based on the actual income. For the sake of honesty, they should have said at the same time that if actual income and tax deductions are taken into account, agriculture is allocated 200 million. NOK, which corresponds to a plus of NOK 5000. Finally, I will give honor to the Right. It's not often I do it. When the centre parties failed, the right stood up and took responsibility, so that the industry would also have a settlement to deal with in the coming years. It says respect. My conclusion to this article will be: First of all, there is no basis for the central party's accusations that the government is violating the Storting's will. Nor is it the basis for claiming that the Workers' Party left its political line of cooperation with the Centre Parties. That they did not dare to stand out, the Working Party cannot be loaded. Secondly, cooperation between organisations and administrations must be restored as soon as possible, so that we can jointly meet future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1650	I could agree with the case rapporteur on a good part of what he said, and in particular on the fact that food prices have to go down in relation to Sweden. There are probably a lot of politicians in this room who are not concerned that we in Norway will get so low food prices, but Kari and Ola Nordmann protest against Norwegian agricultural policy by electing Sweden, because there they actually have an opportunity, a safety valve, to avoid what politicians decide here in Norway. Here we have to do something, if we are to sell at all large parts of our production and what is currently overproduction. I agree with the case rapporteur and what has been said in the agricultural communication here, the price differences between Norway and our competitors must decrease. But then I ask the question, how are we going to do it? We have this tax treatment and the reduction in target prices, but since market prices in Norway are relatively far below the target prices of some goods, much of it is taken out. And when we know that Agenda 2000 and other things internationally mean that prices are being reduced quite a bit there, it will certainly help, with what is in the agricultural system, that price differences will increase. What can the Workers' Party do to remedy this, which I have not discovered in the farm? And then another thing. Jon Olav Alstad, Labour Party member and farmer, goes out into the nation today and says, "Drop farming." He says exactly the same thing as the Progress Party has proposed in two of its proposals, that the existing system of agricultural agreements should be abolished and that the government budget should be given the appropriations. In fact, Norway is the only country in the world, as far as I know, that remains an ancient system. Will the Labour Party now follow up with Mr Alstad and try to consider abolishing this antiquated system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1659	When it comes to the question of how to get prices down so that we can compete with Sweden, there are many ways that there is a thousand-dollar question that there is no simple answer to. There is no simple answer to it at all if we are to maintain the multifunctional role of agriculture as it is today. There's a large majority here in this room. When we dealt with the agricultural report, I noticed that even the Progress Party was involved in formulations on viable rural areas throughout the country, beautiful cultural landscapes, etc. It goes without saying that this is a problem when we're going to bring down the prices. I think it's very important that we be able to achieve a balance, and that all stages in the chain have to contribute to what they have to give. Then it is very good that the Council of State has already taken the initiative to have a dialogue with the actors, because it is in everyone's interest to meet this challenge, not just in the interests of the politicians. It is in the interest of primary agriculture, it is in the interest of Rimi-Hagen, and it is in everyone's interest to meet this competition. When it comes to abolishing the settlement and negotiations, I just have to say that it is allowed to think loudly in the Workers' Party. I noticed that one reason was that the farmer Alstad did not, in fact, feel that the peasant team was caring for his interests when they broke the negotiations. He simply could not afford a situation in which the organisations on behalf of the farmers gave up large sums through a breach. Let me just say in the end that the Workers' Party insists that we have the negotiating institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1672	Today is a sad day. A good negotiating result in the last two years, a good deal of agreement on the agricultural message between the centre and the Labour Party, which gave optimism and believed that it was possible to bet again in agriculture, has changed with one stroke. There's also another thing that's sad. It's that it's Gunnar Breimo's representative who has to go to the degrees in the field and attack us, when we know that he's been in charge of this case that's had a lot in common with the center. I'm not going to comfort the representative of Breimo or the assembly with a quote in relation to all that development, but they're many, they're interesting, and they're very consistent that they're basically going to the same thing as the center party, until it has an internal party treatment in the Labour Party. Therefore, I will not sprinkle any more salt in open wounds relative to it. I would like to ask Mr Breimo two questions. It is a liability for the development of income. With the results this year, will one achieve what we were some about having in income development, in line with others? If you look at this over time, this year's evolution will mean that you get the slope that other groups are given, which is estimated to be approx. $5,000? The second question concerns what Mr Breimo said in the debate. He was happy that Right was parked. That the result now implies that Right supports it, that Right gives praise to the result, while they gave strong criticism of the agreement, isn't there an indication that the submitted to the data has approached Right, or is the Right that has turned around?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1685	If it is a sad day today, it must be because we experienced a breach in the negotiations. It was the organizations that broke. It wasn't the state. According to the media, there was a significant amount that the State was willing to add to the first offer. It is possible that there have been good negotiation results two years earlier, with increased transfers. But at the same time, the situation is that overproduction has never been greater. The market situation has never been more difficult than it actually is today, and it has become over the same two years. I ask the question, is there a context? In any case, it is revealing that it is not enough just to collect public money; it also takes other steps to deal with it. Otherwise, there is no guarantee of income development. The formulation that had been introduced was meant over a period of time. It's very much up to the industry to behave so that they can take out the gain so that they can keep up with it. But we're going to pursue an active agricultural policy that facilitates conditions. I have to remind you that the negotiations are about income opportunities. As I said in my post, it's not the scheme that there should be a question of budget allocation if this industry should have the same income development as other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1694	A lot of strong words were used in the statement to Breimo about the internal relationships with the centre, and it is clear in a day that Lilletun describes as a “thirsty day” – it is perhaps a day of divorce, or I would rather say that marriage is declared invalid, because it is concluded on premises that do not prove to be in the light of reality. I have to ask Breimo something about the entire negotiating institute. As far as I know, in the last 20 years the Labour Party has only managed once – possibly twice – to reach agreement with both organisations. Does it have any purpose to continue with this acting, to which this has actually evolved, when we look at what has happened, not least this year? Now I heard Breimo reply to a previous reply that the Workers' Party went for it. But what I could imagine asking is, Is Breimo strengthened in the belief in this institute? Does he feel that these two organisations are taking total responsibility for the priorities we have to do in this area too, using 13 billion kroner in direct grants and 7 billion kroner in screening aid? Does he feel that, for example, Are the interests of the food industry adequately safeguarded? Does he feel that there is sufficient competition in the industry to produce the goods produced by the Norwegian farmer? Does he feel that one is concerned about the costs between the point in which the farmer delivers the goods and that it is in the shops? Do we have an institute that takes total social responsibility for these things? Or could it be that in this area we should have done as we do in the context of the State budget? We discuss the amounts, prioritize between all the purposes, premise and lead, and the government gets to carry out the detailed distribution of the money. Is he strengthened in faith, or is he weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1703	I have to admit that I might have used some harsh words in my post, and I did that because I feel a certain bitterness that we were not able to get a cooperation with the center still. It was a strong wish for me to do so, because I still believe – and the Labour Party also believes – that cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre will be the best in view of all the social interests that agriculture is going to have for us. When it was broken, I'm also a little bit bitter because, as I said in my post, if the center wanted to, we could get a slightly softer start with the structural effects. We could have mitigated the structural effects a little bit -- what goes on the area and the number of animals. We were willing to discuss it, but we met with a cold shoulder. As far as the negotiating institute is concerned, I just have to say that I don't consider it a 'play.' The work done by the organisations prior to these negotiations clearly shows that they are also serious about their commitment. But I also have to admit that if we experience constant breaks in the future, those who want to get rid of this institute will clearly be able to get water on the mill. Organisations also face a major challenge here. I see it as incredibly important that we take care of this negotiating opinion. If we are to meet the difficult challenges this industry has to face, we must work together between these actors and the authorities. It's absolutely crucial. If we don't get to that, I think we can just shoot an arrow after the fine goals we've set about agriculture all over the country etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1718	In the spring, agriculture is given special attention in the context of the negotiations between the authorities and agricultural organisations on agricultural settlements. This year, in particular, high expectations have been generated due to interpretations of signals coming from different levels. And so it goes as it goes: the organisations react very negatively to the government's offer and call it a "breakup". This is followed up by illegal operations with dredging, organised tractor driving on passageways, power refusal operations and other dissatisfaction markings. It's not the first time the farmers are threatening actions because they're not satisfied with the amount of money they're checking out the Stortinget prints, and they're laughing at the fact that it's not free to let the Norwegian people go. Let me do some examples. We remember all the Malvik action and the Dovrefjell action in the spring of 1995, such as: resulted in a tax refusal. But the farmers have a lot of opportunities to show ingenuity in action forms. The Dovrejell action suggested that it could be time to drag dungheads onto the roads. In addition, it was assessed to block dairies, so that the milk did not come out to consumers. The only thing the self-employed in the food production industry will achieve with several actions, without getting attention, is getting on the verge of Consumer Norway and raising people most against the agricultural industry. The only thing that actionists can achieve is to advance the cutting-off of transfers, and that farmers' organisations are outside in terms of influence over the development of the industry. Many consumers will, of course, rejoice at such a result. It is also alarming that agricultural organisations do not distance themselves from all forms of illegal action, both in their name and in their benefits. This helps to reduce trust in organisations, as we see it. You'd almost think that the organizations' front figures had sky posters for their eyes, because you didn't want to talk about the world of reality. In fact, there is a basis for using words such as ‘problem blindness’. You're most concerned about letting things go like before, and that means giant transfers to the many who, with the greatest pleasure, are willing to jeopardize society, cost what it will cost. It seems that conservative forces in the organisations are willing to risk our common future, consume the inheritance silver on Norwegian pedestal, isolate us from Europe and put us back into economic development only they can retain their own privileges. Instead of discussing a survival strategy for Norwegian agriculture and a necessary reform policy, history is in doubt, and everything is going to be done about the storm this time as well. As we see it, attention should be focused on how to develop a Norwegian competitive agriculture that could be opposed to competition when import protection is further weakened. However, it is only the Progress Party that is willing to respond to some unpopular measures with changes of sufficient strength. Instead of going into the absolutely necessary discussion, most of the old stuff is passed on in an orderly agricultural settlement where you threaten to perform illegal actions when you don't get what you want. It's when most people should be happy that plumbing companies don't have a similar pay settlement with the state. If we go to the Government's offer in the agricultural negotiations, the main content is a marginal change bare of necessary reforms. The farmers still receive around NOK 13 billion in transfers, and the import protection costs Norwegian consumers NOK 7 billion, a total of approx. $20 billion. Things go pretty much like before. The claim by the organisational team that the government is failing the country and the peasants must be described as pure propaganda. We in the Progress Party believe that the Government does not give signals to agriculture about the need for a strong conversion of the course. We still experience a social democratic attempt, although it means a lot of words and little change to break a negative trend. A compensation mechanism in the tax equation of the order to which it is added will not be sufficient to prevent the price differences we currently have between Norway and our neighbouring countries from increasing further when Agenda 2000 is implemented. EU agricultural policy has clear objectives of reducing prices by 10 to 20 pst. the next few years. And when it is estimated that the impact of the full implementation of Agenda 2000 will be more than DKK 1 billion, it means that Norwegian consumers have to blame themselves for greater price differences, making it even more profitable to trade food, for example. in Denmark and Sweden. International agreements should also provide a good opportunity to impose absolutely necessary changes in Norwegian agriculture. In the forthcoming WTO negotiations, Norway will be faced with strong demands for customs reductions in agricultural products and, in the most extreme cases, customs duties can be halved. Rimi-Hagen and others will not fail to consume food that is cheaper in other countries than those produced here at home. Therefore, proper action should be taken in the near future so that the industry can rationalise, streamline and lower prices further. We no longer want the oil money to be used to avoid making unpopular decisions and problems of conversion in the agricultural sector. Rural policy tasks assigned to agriculture, such as ensuring settlement outside central districts, have been partly unsuccessful and obviously costly in trying to achieve this. Based on the available figures from the OECD and the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research for the period 1972 to 1996, an estimate of the total aid of DKK 900 billion is measured in 1996-krona. In this period, almost half of all use disappeared in this country. So what has the Norwegian people got left to refrain from this wealth? Should one be willing, one might say that agricultural policy is a very expensive way to slow down the trend of centralisation here in the country. But it would be more right to claim that districts are actually being defused, that they are less able to develop a sustainable business life and thus contribute to strengthening centralisation trends. Many competitive businesses exist in the districts. Much of this activity is fighting a hard fight to survive in international competition, and it will be worse. In addition to its own costs, it must bear its share of the world's most expensive agricultural policy expenditure. The agricultural industry will gradually be exposed to competition in the coming years, whether you like it or not. It would then be logical to liberalise the law and reduce the ambition to control the structure of use in the course of this development. In the future, when farmers have to take greater responsibility for their own incomes, conditions should be set in place rather than insisting on an appropriate piece of legislation. This can be done by reducing the level of regulation that prevents agriculture from being rational and effective. Soil and concession law is central to this picture. Agriculture policy has run agriculture into a corner. The farmers have gradually been deprived of their ownership, their right of self-determination and made dependent on the favor of politicians. They have been deprived of all the essential ownership functions of politicians and bureaucrats through concession laws, so that farmers cannot freely buy or sell agricultural properties, choose farming form, not even determine the number of hens or the number of pigs they want to produce, could not start milk production without having bought milk quotas from the country and much, much more. The Norwegian farmer is basked and tied on the hands and feet of quota and regulation arrangements, and if they are not followed, and he thinks and acts himself, he gets criminalised. There is therefore a strong need for a new agricultural policy which requires radical changes to the framework conditions for the overall business life of agriculture and rural areas. What we believe needs to be done is to give more room for self-development through, among other things. abolishing all production restrictions, abolishing concession limits for acquiring livestock, abolishing restrictions on the sale of land and forest property, repealing the concession, housing and operating obligations, etc. And equally important: Special legislation in the agricultural cooperative limits competition and presses prices upwards, and must therefore be phased out. Based on what has been said, we also want to wind up the system of commercial agreements, whether in the case of an agricultural agreement, a fisheries agreement or a reindeer management agreement. In a reduction phase of aid measures, appropriations may be made above the ordinary State budget. We are proposing this. We are also opposed to providing an entire profession of sole proprietors with income guarantees for a whole year to come. We have no hotel agreement or master's agreement. The agricultural agreement is a comprehensive and unbridled business agreement, a complicated deal with large red tape linked to totally unbridled conditions, where only a few people have the full picture when important detail issues are settled. This agreement has more than 100 grant and support schemes combined with huge and detailed legislation. All these agricultural bureaucrats who work with this must bear their backs. There is a strong contribution to the emergence of rational, competitive and professional food producers in Norway with their absence. Deregulation and exposure to competition will be key words if Norwegian agriculture is to have the right of life to some greater extent over time. We are all interested in a thriving and forward-looking agricultural industry that can stand on its own feet without burdening anyone else in society. The answer to how many people have the right to life, where the uses are and the size of them is not found in bureaucrats and politicians, but through a guided and gradual exposure of the industry to normal conditions of competition. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1756	The representative Hedstrøm has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1759	This year's agricultural settlement was met with expectation and excitement from the Christian People's Party and Centre, which had reached a political compromise on the agricultural notification. The setting provided for certain adjustments to the concession limit, led the jury, eased the conditions of co-operation and gave an opening to bet more on the uses of the concession than the government council of Gjønnes had provided. However, the compromise placed great emphasis on the importance of minor use for rural policy and highlighted the need for good conditions for the 80 pst. by users who currently combine agricultural income with other income. We considered this compromise to be important for industry and very important regional policy. Therefore, the disappointment was great when the state's offer came with a negative impact on income opportunities for nine out of ten sheep farms and two out of three dairy farms. Use of less than 100 covers, which are the backbone of agriculture, has all received a negative offer that detests. I see this as an unfriendly interpretation of the views of the majority of the committee when the setting of the new agricultural policy was dealt with. However, it is good and in line with the compromise that the Government follows up the majority’s view on the tax deduction. This is being supported by the Centre, and we are pleased that this will be properly implemented from 2001. But we assumed that the tax deduction, as presented in the setting, would be done in full for the year 2000, as part of the conversion process of taxation and target price reduction. However, it is not satisfactory that the Government halves this for the year 2000. We had not thought that such an interpretation of the message and the setting was possible, as it says correctly how this should be done. Especially difficult was the entire settlement when the government did not put any fresh money into the frame either. How in the world did the government think it would bring the organizations first and after the center of such a scheme? We have now learned that within two weeks, the Stoltenberg government has managed to break down that confidence, optimism and the inauguration of the central government, often built up in relation to the agricultural industry and the Building Norway. But the right thing to do is: the Labour Party contributed to an enhanced optimism by putting themselves behind the agricultural message, and we were together on majority comments in the agricultural message setting. On the basis of this, it is incredibly sad, and I know that many in the Workers' Party's own ranks had quite different expectations for the settlement than the offer that was made on the table from their own government. The District Labour Party won the battle for the message and the setting, and the urban social economists in the party won the settlement. We agree and refer to long practice that, in the event of a breach of negotiations, the Government will promote the state's original offer as a proposal from the Stortinget. We will maintain this as a general rule and normal practice. However, we need to clarify and underline that in this year's negotiations there was a very special situation when the Stortinget had just before addressed the main lines of a future agricultural policy through the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. Since the government's offer was made, they have not really shown the willingness to reach a millimetre, either in terms of the framework or tax arrest for the year 2000. We are several who have wondered what the strategy of the Workers' Party really was, if it was not to receive subsidiary support from the Right in the last round. What went wrong? What was the tactical error assessment of the government of Stoltenberg if it intended to have an agreement with the parties or with the central parties? Or was the strategy to get everyone in place with raw power use and threats to make everything much worse if we didn't agree? My assessment is that either the Labour Party would not, or they have done a poor piece of political craft in the negotiations. Anyway, this is just sad for the hopeful political compromise, it's sad for the industry and for the part of the value creation potential and the enthusiasm that's now squandered away. I should have liked to have seen that the center was without this business and district policy election card at the next major elections. This settlement only makes me sad and dishonourable. The working party is bitter at the center, according to several media performances. Yes, attack is the best defense. But it helps so little in the situation. I understand that there is indignation in the Workers' Party, searing if it is now directed at us, because I know that there is really an internal anger in the Workers' Party that the political leadership of the State delegation swept away this opportunity to initiate the political compromise with the Centre. We cannot accept this unfriendly interpretation of the compromise of 9 May. For us in the centre, this political compromise was not a secondary aid agreement. The invoice has become a hot case after the negotiations. This has taken a little attention from the big lines, but the cause in itself has gradually become an important war on reality description and guilt issues. Here it is played on prejudices against agricultural organisations, that they have always calculated what they want. I react very strongly to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture not only disagrees with the agricultural organisations' calculations, but is simply accusing them of cheating. In fact, the government has changed the way of calculating, so that a minus becomes a plus after one has ignored that one has removed 200 million. kr that farmers have obtained in previous contracts for the purchase of milk quotas. I have even participated in this settlement for several years and I think I know the game of power around numerical bases and calculations quite well. Here, all parties do have their manufacturing methods, but no one beats the state in manufacturing techniques. I've learned that. When their power position is used to represent the farmers as stupid in addition, because they don't understand the difference between the plus and the minus, this is a game we can't participate in. I am aware that these are harsh words, but someone has to tell me that the emperor is not dressed in May 9th. No, the emperor's naked. Then those who will, close their eyes and believe in the farmyard's statements: look how nice he is, and the farmer gets plus NOK 5000! Although we do not agree on what should be right, one should be able to reach an agreement on how this should be calculated, and it must be counted on income opportunities, because that is the objective of the agricultural notification. It was very positive during the previous settlement, when agriculture pushed the state to significantly increase the target price of sheep meat, and that agriculture actually succeeded in getting this price out. So it's not that the target prices are automatically not achieved, so it might sound like the discussion around the calculation. Everything's not just air. An important criticism of the country’s approach is that, in practice, after all experience, it will increase overproduction in agriculture and weaken the possibility of collecting the target price. The distance between income opportunities and what is in practice possible to get out of the market will thus increase. In the calculation applied by the Department, they have a self-interest in increasing overproduction in order to obtain a price drop in order to obtain a more favourable starting point for measuring income development at the next agreement. This is a head of industry that also does not contribute to increasing farm incomes despite increasing output per head. holding. You set agriculture to dig your own economic grave. The settlement punishes the labourers in Norwegian agriculture. Those who have laboriously built up a 12-14 church use in hopes of obtaining an annual income on it are now very uncertain about their future. I don't think it's just the orientation of the centres and the trade unions. They can count for themselves. Similarly, those who have built up a versatile use with several livestock productions. The big disappointment was that there was very little willingness to change these biases. The need for conversion is often referred to as a magic explanation of everything that is not right in this settlement. The question is not about a need for change, but how and how fast. Things take time, and it takes time to change as well. Nor can 75 000 small businesses be converted from a department office with dictates. If the need for conversion is so great, it is all the more important to have a constructive dialogue with industry organisations and practitioners. I experience the settlement as a short-term thinking about the conversion of 75 000 small businesses. This arrangement does not motivate, but it creates fear and uncertainty, and that is what we do not need now. Tourism is also referred to as an additional industry. But even here, we know that we have a lot of problems getting good profitability. It requires more marketing and more perfection, and it takes time. There will be no alternative other than for a 12 cows or 80 winter-infested sheep, especially for areas in poor nutritional conditions. The arrangement is so brutal for those who are in economically deprived areas with 12 cows and are told that they do not have a future in this industry either. They don't see any short-term conversion options. They feel that they have failed. Couldn't we avoid this? Everything is not lost even if some options are lost. As the Minister of Agriculture, I also see great potential for food and value creation on farms, in agriculture and in Building Norway. It is important in the future to take care of the good opportunities. We in the Christian People's Party will give full support to the work of the value creation program and hope the ministry succeeds in doing this user-oriented, and that it actually supports increasing the value of 12 churches that will create something more of their commodities. For all intents and purposes, keep the consultants away. In the future, it will be important to produce food in Norway, even in those areas that are not highly efficient. There is something fundamental in all natural and resource management in a world with an ever-increasing population and a steady decline in production capacity. Finally, I would like to promote the minority proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1799	The representative Karlstrøm has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1804	I don't know if I'm going to turn to anything humorous in this context. But I sat and thought when one was accused of adultery, about the man who expressed that he had big enough problems in being faithful if he wasn't cheating too. I guess it fits in this context. I think that the representative Karlstrøm drew a very gloomy picture of the situation, because it's not like that after this settlement, despite everything – and Karlstrøm also has to admit – that it's just to turn off the light over the whole country. It's not even the beginning of such a development. I think that if we don't do anything, you might get into that situation faster. I have a few questions. This is the case with the tax deduction and the full effect for the whole year. There I've said in an article that you only read the last passus in that section, you can interpret what your center parts do. But if you go in and see the context of this -- I even went on that bump and misunderstood, I just read that piece when I was asked by a journalist -- you'll see that it can't be interpreted in any other way than the way the department does. So my question is, what is it that really means that you should think that way of giving several hundred million dollars to this industry, without any kind of remuneration, because that's going to be the consequence? So I also want to ask, can't Randi Karlstrøm admit that if you add actual income to the land and the tax deduction, it becomes a plus in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1815	Now it's like many people can't afford to turn off the light either. Many people are tied up in agricultural debt, so they can't just stop. I also don't see the big point in thinning the farmers as far as possible to see how long they stay in the industry. I think the signals are quite clear from what we've got from practitioners, who have calculated what this has to say to themselves, what kind of an actual outcome it has and how they evaluate their situation and their future. Actually, I'm serious about that. As regards the tax deduction and the operation there, when this has been discussed throughout the winter, there has been talk of having it as of 1 January 2000. This is a one-off operation, and it was part of that operation to introduce the tax credit while reducing the target prices. And reducing the target prices is quite difficult for agriculture to go into, but in that operation there is a gesture that you get the good first – that is, the tax deduction comes, full package in 2000. It has always been spoken as if it were the deal, it was the deal. I react very much to the fact that the difference between the income opportunities negotiated the year before and the prices actually achieved is so easily mentioned. Because if you're always starting from what you've actually achieved, it turns out that you've actually taken away from agriculture, or you're kind of subtly subtly subtly subtlying what they've negotiated to the year before. You can't get mixed up. When you calculate, you should be consistent with talking about income opportunities or actual development, and then you have to name it in the right words and not mix the two methods of calculation to find the most appropriate representation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1824	Like Breimo, I also want to get into the tax haven. The progress party was opposed to this compensation scheme in the tax equation, because we consider farmers to be self-employed, and we want all self-employed people to have equal treatment for tax purposes. But the Christian People's Party had a different opinion. In addition, we perceived that this did not contribute to solving any structural problems in agricultural policy. But the Christian People's Party also, as the representative said, agreed to have this arrangement, and that it would apply to the whole year. And then I came to think that in a lot of outlying municipalities in Norway, maybe there's a place between 10 and 20 pst. of those who treasure the municipality, peasants. We know that the income tax is a total of 28 p.p., and as far as I remember, more than half of this amount is for municipalities and county councils. And that will mean that a number of outlying municipalities will have reduced revenues because of this scheme. We know that municipalities and county councils in Norway have had serious problems – yes, last year there was a total deficit of NOK 12 billion. And my question to the Christian People's Party is: How do you want to compensate for this loss of income to municipalities and county councils? And then there was a different meaning with this tax treatment, and it was that you should get an increased recruitment in a number of municipalities. But won't it be that some hobbies and part-time farmers who are sitting with some cadavers here and there, will now sit with this because it will pay off for them, because they get less tax? How does the Christian People's Party view this problem, and will the intentions of the Christian People's Party in agricultural policy contribute in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1833	Some of the thinking behind the tax regime is that you should help people cope with the seas. And agriculture is a low-income industry, and it is in most countries. It's not like fishing where you can take the big lottery. This is a low-income industry with relatively low returns on capital. Among other things, Germany has such a scheme where you have a tax deduction. The first 200,000 you earn can be used to live on. Another option was to increase budget support. You can also combine both of these. But I actually think it was a necessary and a proper grip to do. With regard to tax income in municipalities, this does not have a direct influence on tax income in municipalities, for most municipalities are the minimum income municipalities where there is tax equalisation. In addition, the tax income of the municipality is calculated in such a way that this will not directly impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1842	The word has sadly gone very much again in today's debate, and not least the representative Karlstrøm to use the word up to several times. I think the sad fact is that it looks like, if the representative Karlstrøm is representative of the centre, that one has chosen to resign from the whole agricultural debate. At the same time, it has been decided to abstain from the Gjønes, which has the potential for agricultural notification, and which clearly stated that Norwegian food prices had to fall due to our WTO obligations. And it's sad that you don't show a single ambition from the center other than more money. But I haven't seen 50 flat ears more from the centre parties in this debate than what the Government and the Right Subsidiary come on the table with. It's amazing that from the Christian People's Party you choose to use the main post to focus on usage up to 100 deacs. And it's amazing that you don't spend a second mentioning the need for lower food prices, and that you don't spend a second focusing on how to deal with the overproduction problem and get a balance in the market. But what I'm recording is that we actively intend to cultivate a policy that continues to produce overproduction, creating further pessimism in Norwegian farmers. Why does the Christian People's Party not want, in a situation where the capacity of Norwegian agriculture needs something down, to give priority to the farmer who draws his main income from the farm? But I record that neither the centre parts of this farmer contribute 50 cents more than the Government and the Right contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1853	Now I may not think that representatives from the Right fully agree with that description of reality, because I think Gabrielsen had other comments when it came to the Workers' Party following the Gjønnes, or whether we followed the Gjønnes. When I mention these uses of less than 100 dekars, it is because there is a group of 32,000 private entrepreneurs in Norway who are using that size, and they are quite important for the industrial structure of very many rural areas throughout the country. That they get a negative signal in this agreement, I feel very wrong, because several of these actually do full-time activities on the uses. It is difficult to reach a good deal in the agreement, I will admit that, and so you might want to be a little careful with the steps you are taking in an agreement, because it can quickly work for – let me use the word brutally. Many people do not know how to obtain income in the future; among other things. those who live in some areas with poor nutrition do not have any other alternative. When I don't talk so much about getting food prices down, I guess that's not exactly right. I'm following all the arrangements of the Gehenna. The point of the tax treatment was that it should be done together with target price reductions. That's the point. So the Gehönes were most concerned about it. The Christian People's Party was most concerned that we would succeed in this settlement – and that in a way that was also a good way for the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1862	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1866	I feel that rarely has there been a more gloomy atmosphere in this hall. Now I haven't been here for so many years, but I don't remember it's been such a gloomy image attached to an industry – and it's before the Central Party has had the word! But I have to say that this spring has been almost an agricultural spring slip. The dryness was very large throughout the winter. The peasant team had priceworthy initiatives in most of the counties, where we had very interesting and rewarding debates with many farmers present. We had the setting for the agricultural message, St.meld. No 19 with Mr Breimo. We now have the attitude on the agricultural settlement with the same case rapporteur. The value of the setting we had when we treated St.meld. No 19, with the current setting, is equal to zero. I said in my post on May 9th that the humiliating embraces as the center and the Workers' Party that stood for was one of the most naïve plays I'd ever seen. If you really thought that it would be possible to get an agricultural settlement to which these two parties could join, then I have to say that you lived completely in the world of naivety. It was applause from the organizations in ours for this fantastic agreement. Organisations could not be given enough credit. The value of that now we see -- it's worth zero. Never in my seven years at Stortinget have I seen that two parties who looked like turtledoves a month and a half before, have had an adjustment where they just hit each other in the head with quotes from the previous setting, where they did not disagree with one sentence. It is sad that the Labour Party government did not listen to the previous case rapporteur Hanssen and drew that message so that we could have had a real treatment of Norwegian agricultural policy for the next few years. But who is it that's been tricked by the Workers' Party and the Center? It's not my job to go in and try to separate at once, it seems that they're able to claw out each other's eyes in an absolutely excellent way – and then there'll be few clear-sighted ones after they're done with it. Those who have been tricked are, of course, primarily the farmers, who represent an industry that needs long-termism in relation to what they are going to do. So now you don't have an agricultural policy, at my discretion, which is defined in a globalization that is something to rely on when you see the interpretation options that exist and can be read in today's setting. It's black and white. And this so-called marriage, I think we're going to consider this unaccompanied. Of course, it is also tempting today to draw up some quotations, not least from the case rapporteur, but I will leave it alone; I only have ten minutes – if I had an hour or two, I could have grasped it. But one thing I want to bring with me anyway. Today's leading article in the United Nations reads that the Labour Party's Breimo on 20 May believed that the offer in the negotiations broke with the decision of the Stortinge – and that is what a representative of the government party says – and today he defends it heroically, but nevertheless says in a line exchange that the Workers' Party was willing to, through negotiations with the centre, mitigate the greatest results of the structural effects of the Government's own proposal. I think that might be a bit special to say in a debate where the case-rapporteur, from the government party, will at least try to defend what might come. But the divorce note that we are dealing with today, to my mind, is no reason to make a gloomy mood around. The only possibility for Norwegian agriculture is that we take away the binding we have for our eyes, take away the skyscrapers and make a policy for the real world, and don't fool ourselves into notions that don't exist. At my discretion, we should wind up the negotiating institute. When the Right in the evening is still going to vote against it, it's not because the business spokesperson is against it, but we haven't debated the topic. I want to wonder if we will go after this to the next year to keep it. I also record that the combined farmers and storage representatives in the Workers' Party are now starting to think about interesting things. But what does the Right mean about agricultural policy, about what is materialised in the proposition that we are dealing with today? Yeah, then we chose not to throw blues in the eyes of the nutritionists who are in that industry. It is a 70 000 – 75 000 annual works linked to this. The question we must have at my discretion is: how are we going to set up this industry to meet the challenges we have in the future? The challenges we're facing are well known to everyone in this room. They're down in St.meld. No 19, described by the Gehønnes in an all-good and objective and reasonable manner, which states that we must meet the consumer's demand for lower prices. Why do we have to? Is it because it's very important for us to bring down food prices? Of course, it's all the reality that surrounds us in our neighboring country; there's the price of these products. The border trade we now experience is primarily a problem not for the trading ground in Eastfold, but for the Norwegian peasantry. That's why we have to think about it. The competitive situation of the Norwegian food industry is crucial for tens of thousands of jobs in the same districts. We must also take that into account. We have to get a balanced agriculture, and we have WTO negotiations to take into account. We can't free ourselves from the reality that it is. Of course, in order to make a policy to achieve those objectives, you need to break some eggs, like when you create an omelette. It's cool to make price changes without having to get on the new course away from the old one, and that means, of course, a redistribution between those who are in agriculture per year. today. And then you have to make priorities between those who, at my discretion, do more hobby than others. Then you get to choose what you want. Then I am aware that there are other considerations to take into account agricultural policy than just for the individual farmer. They talk about employment, housing, the environment, preparedness, cultural landscapes, etc. The second question we have to ask is, is it that for the future it is through liters and kilograms to Norwegian farmers that we can achieve these goals? The answer, of course, is no. So in 1900 there were 500,000 farmers, in 1950 there were 300,000, in 2000 there are 75 000, and in 15 years – if we follow St.meld. No 19 from the central government, there are 35,000 farmers. Then it goes without saying that it is not these 35,000 farmers who can maintain the settlement in District Norway. Then we have to be willing to look at alternative applications of some of these crowns in order for us in the same districts to have jobs that meet the challenges of the future, which the districts of Norway will also face. For the right, it is therefore gratifying that we have received a majority of comments saying that the Ministry will look forward to the agricultural settlement in 2001 at whether we can achieve a target with alternative application of this. We have to ask ourselves: has agricultural policy been successful in this country when we look at the parameters that have been agreed upon? Then it's very hard to say that it's been very successful. When you look at the number of billions you've spent, it's pretty obvious that there's a lot of the goals you've had that you don't achieve. At my discretion, you are lulling too long into a notion that agriculture is going to solve all these problems. What we have to do is to make sure that we have a structural development that has at least the rate at which it is put up here, and that means that people who do hobby business get to finance it with things other than the state budget. We can't keep using public funds to finance people who think it's festive to have 15 sheep walking around the house. Whether people have 15 sheep or collect stamps, taxpayers are totally irrelevant. When it's like those who call in today and tonight, people who work two years in meat production and milk, and irritate themselves green over neighbors around who run hobby activities and have economic benefits far more than they have, and when it's like almost half of Norwegian farmers have commercial incomes of NOK 36 000 and less, you have to understand that it's not this that carries the districts. And if we don't apply the structural measures, the technological possibilities that lie in the countryside, we're going to die a silent death, the ones that live in the countryside. At the centre, I would just like to say to the very end: I cannot understand, after that rhetoric and cigaretteing, that there is no ability to promote a proposal to change the four chapters of the State budget that relate to the agricultural notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1897	There is nothing new for us who have experienced the representative Gabrielsen in the hall here, that he and Right usually have the right answer to most – in their own eyes, well to notice. But if we're starting from St.meld. No 19, the representative Gabrielsen must agree that it arranged for a move towards what is also right, namely that those who have agriculture as their main occupation should receive a greater share of the transfers that we provide today and in the future. If there is someone who has dropped St.meld. No 19, it must be the center part. Because that is exactly the direction that is now indicated, namely that we need to give priority to transfers towards those who have this as a profession, or who have at least the important part of the income from the agricultural industry. Right will liquidate the negotiating institute. I must honestly agree that after what has happened this year, I also begin to ask questions as to whether that is the right way to do it in the future. It might be nice to know if Right has made any thoughts about what's going to happen instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1906	That the Right has the right answers in its own eyes, can't come as a surprise. And sometimes you can get the impression even when you hear Opseth, that he's not completely untouched by his own statements. As regards the direction of Norwegian agricultural policy, it is described in St.meld. No 19th@item: In addition to reading the message, I have traveled around the country and the beach along with, among other things. Gjønnes, his State Secretary and his entire horde from the Ministry of Agriculture, and I have debated this together with the League of Bonds and with the then Advocate General Hanssen. There were some very pleasant seasons we had. Of course, we did not agree on everything, but it was pleasant and instructive – at least for me. What is certain: In St.meld. No 19 is not indicated as a return from a structural development which in itself has seven uses out of production each day, and that there is a take-off of 2 500 annual works. It is difficult to establish objectively whether it will result in 2,700 or 3,100 over a period, whether it will be more than this 2,000. But there is no doubt about the structure of Norwegian agricultural policy, based on St.meld. No 19 – there are only questions about spending 12 years, 15 years or 17 years getting there. That's the pace we're discussing, not 'on'. There are no settings throughout the 1990s on Norwegian agricultural policy that I can see pointing back to the reality that once was, but there are some who talk as if that is what they are doing. It's the impression a sheep get when you hear that the email has almost collapsed today, and the phones, and when they refer to people they've talked to in the hall – it's like they've launched an alternative way. It's not done. We're not discussing direction, we're discussing pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1917	Before Gabrielsen goes down, the President is a little uncertain whether the proposals from the Right have been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1920	It's not done. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1925	The representative Gabrielsen has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1928	I can understand that the representative Gabrielsen is impatient, because Norwegian agricultural policy is almost not riveted by the stain. There's one step forward and two steps back. Although he is new in this committee, he has reason to be impatient. But one thing can be positive in that things are going so slowly: then we have to assume that there will be a relatively rapid need for new initiatives to change policy, due to international relations, the WTO, etc., on which Gabrielsen was involved. It is also positive, from our point of view, that next year one can count on the right to support the proposal of the Progress Party to wind up the system of agricultural agreements, a proposal we have promoted throughout this period. We have walked in front, pulled up the loop and helped to remove some old watering and some sacred cows – and took the load with it. Then the others come after. But why should we always be the worst boy in the class here in Norway? We see that in the Nordic countries and elsewhere in Europe competition policy is going all the way. Even Finland, which has a much lower economy than Norway, is now undergoing a major structural change in the agricultural sector. They realize that it is necessary. They can't go on in the old tracks and pay what this costs, when it's not really necessary. There is no sensible policy in the long term either, it is said in almost all other countries. So something else – I expect that we get support from the Right to the Next Year: we have another law that also does a lot of harm in the agricultural sector, and that's the law on sales. In its 1999 Annual Report, the Competition Authority said that it contributes to much higher food prices in Norway than is necessary because it impedes competition. Then I think of internal competition – we have a customs-based protection. Can we expect the Right Internally to work on this matter, so that we can get support from the Right also when it comes to terminating the Sale Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1941	Let me say in relation to this by supporting and not supporting: if we were to figure out that something should be done here differently, it's primarily not to support anyone, then it's because we think it's the right way to do it. The fact that the Progress Party has this position does not accelerate or delay such a process. I would describe it as not right what Hedstrøm says, that the structural development of Norwegian agriculture is at rest. That's wrong. It's just reading statistics, so you can see that the use rate is increasing year by year, you can see the trend in the number of annual works, etc. There's definitely an evolution. Changes in an entire industry, including so many individual individuals, cannot be made to 180° turns. The progress party has specialized in this because if you go 100 kilometers ahead suddenly and you don't really stop, you're on your way the other way. It's not that simple. After all, you have a lot to take into account here. As far as the law on turnover and regulation is concerned: the Council of Turnover, in all its beauty, cannot exactly be said to be the most successful thing we have. I definitely believe that several of the productions that are currently strictly regulated in relation to turnover should be released – definitely. I don't see any reason for that, and I'm noticing that even manufacturers in power-driven productions are starting to come up with these thoughts. I was not able to answer the last part of Opseth's question, about what I want instead of agricultural negotiations. In the debate on the state budget, in December, I will give this priority to everything else and will give some guidance on which to premise the Government when it allocates these things – in a general agricultural policy debate, not in such an affront of sand that we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1954	Right-wing representatives have been very concerned that there is a lot of 'treasure' here today. Now this isn't a mental hygiene exercise, and I'm not very surprised that the representative Gabrielsen is not sad, because he's got the Labour Party back as close as he hadn't dared to hope for himself when he used big words when we discussed here on 9 May. So he has a good night, it's not surprising. He talked about the party mood that had been out in the country when a debated the agricultural message. It's a phenomenal job that's been done with the preparation of the message, with the rounds of debates that have been shared by many with the discussion here in Stortinget, and it was about to be an optimism. And then Gabrielsen and others say, it's the full-time prayers we wanted to support this time. But they are not supported by this scheme either! What we are now seeing is that a message after message – late this evening on Dagsrevyen – indicates that those who drive on a full-time basis actually go down in income, too. Is it wrong, according to the representative Gabrielsen's opinion, or is it so? And what about the combination users – does the representative Gabrielsen think it's only speculation that one drives more productions, or could it be that one exploits the resource base in a good way? And by the nature we have, we'll ever be able to produce as cheaply throughout the country as one can in our neighboring countries, for example. Denmark? The representative Gabrielsen has been in the position that we should have a viable agriculture throughout the country. So finally a little philosophical assessment. It is quite right, the representative Gabrielsen says, that the Labour Party has not been able for many years to get an agricultural settlement in port with an agreement. The last time we did it before the central government was under the government of Syse, where the Right/Centre had government. Is Right understood that they must adopt a rather different attitude and that they must actually pursue another agricultural policy, if there is to be an alternative government to the workers' party government where the Right is included, or are they going to continue to proceed as they are now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1968	Whoever walks forward obviously depends on – I kept saying – who is going. Finally, the festivities I spoke about at these debates must not be interpreted as coming from the content of St.meld. No 19, because no matter where I came from, the Bond Team naturally had the same position, no matter what state I was in, they had the same script. And what went on again, and which was driving the then state council Powered to madness, was the characteristics of the income targets in the notification. It was the worst of Norway's Bonds since the war – and then they got the impression that it was the war 1940-45 it was about, and no price war about anything in the 1990s. So it wasn't exactly the heels in the roof everywhere you came. But I had the impression, especially when I was in the coffee breaks talking to the farmers, that it was not difficult to accept that here there must be dramatic re-priorities among those we are transferring money to in Norwegian agriculture – and that was not the hobby farmers they had in mind. In the case of combined use, this is clearly a use that comes out worse than others. Why do they do that? Well, because the overcompensation has been gone at night. Now it's going to be less bad than it has been. But it's not a linear system, it's still a powerful overcompensation for those who run small and irrationally – it's definitely that, it's still a long walk. And if there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that in future agricultural settlements or in future agricultural policies you'll have to keep doing this. Obviously, you have to. In terms of whether there is speculation in combined use: it is both–and. There are a lot of people who are using the combination, who, together with the bureaucrat in the agricultural office concerned, are looking up and looking at how much each one should have in order to get the max out. I guess that's familiar. Ask those who are suppliers of equipment for these, and you will receive an answer. But many people use combination as their only option. That is why I have stated that this is one of the things you have to look at – next to some of the pig producers, who may seem to be worse off than you might have intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1978	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e1981	Rindal kommune writes: ‘If this year’s agreement is equal to the State’s offer, the issue of the credibility of the Storting will be open to questions.’ That question is now being asked everywhere. So unreliable no one can be without it being followed. A week passed from the Workers' Party was part of the majority who described an overall common view of agricultural policy here in the Chamber, until the Government made offers in the agricultural negotiations. No one outside the inner circle of the party agrees that it was the same policy. The difference is so dramatic that it is unmistakable for the centre parties to support the proposal that is now here. No one from the outside has tried to get us to that, and not at all those organisations that saw themselves having to break the negotiations. What farmer can now feel safe in an industry where long-term thinking is necessary, but where there is no majority consensus on the long lines? A strong conversion with uncertain directions is now under way. The smallest uses will be removed from the Working Party. But it was surprising that the widely driven full - time users, who are the backbone of district agriculture, were also to be hit. Even more surprising was the fact that modern and large pig-fowl was to be made unprofitable. At the next crossroads, the Workers' Party, voluntarily or under coercion from the right, can pull away the chair below those that this time were won. Perhaps there are the many people who can now be tricked into investing in large community feathers based on very favourable conditions of support, but who in the next round may lose these. Let me quote from another letter, a six-page letter handwritten night until June 4th from a cube with three years' work: ‘You either don’t know what you’re doing or you’re extremely cynical.’ That's how that letter started. There is a lot of grief, anger and insecurity in the many requests that have come. Not to be valued, and to make the economy even worse, with notice of modest adjustments for the benefit of agriculture, must be bitter. The Labour Party deserves the only rose to come from Hegnar, VG, Dagens Nueringsliv and Gabrielsen. The Workers' Party has invented a new math in the presentation of this year's offers. On 9 May, the Labour Party and the Centre said that active users should be guaranteed income development in line with other groups. There is agreement that other groups have an income curve that clearly points upwards. After Hanssen's new mathematics, the farmer's income curve can go down steeply and tend to go below NOK 100,000 per year. annual work, and nevertheless have significant growth every year. I hope that the Workers' Party will realize as soon as possible that such numbering will never be accepted as anything other than that. The Labour Party and the right parties claim that Norway is under compulsion, and that we need to reduce transfers for WTO reasons and producer prices in the interests of prices in Sweden. However, a new OECD report shows that transfers have increased by 30 pst in all EU and OECD countries. in two years, and in the United States with 70 pst. in the same two years. In Norway, transfers go downwards, as in Australia — this time by 860 million. kr in yellow box. The pressure is not coming from the outside. Cross-border trade is very onerous for Norwegian agriculture and society. The driving forces are high food VAT and high taxes on tobacco, alcohol and petrol. Price surveys show that Swedish prices are 12 pst. lower than in Norway, the same as the difference in food tax. The World Gang documented on 27 October last year that the Norwegian food basket is the cheapest in the world measured in working time and without VAT. With VAT Oslo ported in 8th place, 2 pst. behind Stockholm. But border shops have much lower prices, especially on selected meat products. The centre lot considers that it has been demonstrated that the placing on the market of meat from shops established up to the limit may be affected by the international rules on dumping. The centre lot will provide such documentation and require the Government to follow up both this issue and a general requirement for reduced food tax. Let me remind you that the price cut this time gives a savings of 600 kroner a year for a family of three. For the same family, halving the food tax will amount to NOK 5000. It'll be monstrous if prices go down. Finally, I would like to remind you of the central price invoice from Norway: The price of pork in the store has risen by 7 pst. in the last four years, despite a reduction of 14 pst. in the price of the farmer. The image is the same for beef. The figures are from the Central Statistical Office and the Ministry of Agriculture. These figures are due to a sharp increase in primary production efficiency, and primary producers – farmers – deserve praise. They've done the job. There is no lack of willingness to convert and innovation in agriculture. I am convinced that agriculture wants to cooperate with the authorities and not a confrontation, as it has now become under the new Council of State. This must mean that the country's offer in the agricultural settlement should not be seen as a dictatorship. It must be possible to derive price gains on goods where market balance is sustainable — for example. now on potatoes, vegetables and sheep meat. It must also mean that no State money is used in a way that increases a deer overproduction. A full release with regard to the size of the joint poultry is also a bad signal when the industry itself wants limitations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2024	Even though I am deeply disparate in the representation that the representative Lund has of what has happened here in the house in the agricultural policy area in ours, I will certainly not claim that the representative Lund and the centre party are wearing trixing. But I want to be so strong that I can stress that the Minister of Agriculture and the Government fully supports the agricultural policy that is now presented in St.meld. No 19 and not least in the setting. Those who try to explain it may want to do it until they're both blue and green, but they don't come anymore for that reason. It is coverage – so long I have been in this house that I know how to read settings. [[Laughter]] What happened in 1998? Yes, contract prices were raised by 325 million. DKr, and in 1999 they were raised by 330 million. kr. What was the result? Well, in 1998, there were 338 million missing. EUR 846 million for the achievement of contract prices in 1999. DKr which lacks the achievement of the target price – and in 2000 about DKr 1 billion. And then in this situation we get that agitation, with the Bond layer and the center part in the head, that goes on the farmers losing in tens of thousands. But if you're counting on the actual agreement and on the income, it's going to be positive. I do not understand why the centre party and the peasant organizations are going to create the pessimism of Norwegian agriculture that they are now involved in every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2035	We get a lot of enquiries from all over the country in things like this. We got that when we had the message for treatment, and we get that now. And none of them are addressing us, who think this is okay. We have not received any enquiries where one has said that the Centre Party and the other Centre Parties are now going to go into negotiations and go back to what we have said, that this is not good enough. There is complete agreement that this is dramatic for Norwegian agriculture, and there are not many of us who have been contacted. Opseth still claims that it is those who stand for what we agreed on in connection with the message. Ansgar Gabrielsen has not been so triumphant today when he has described what has happened to the Workers' Party since 9 May. But I think – and that is my particular opinion – that it is this description that is correct: the Labour Party has presented a proposal for agricultural settlement that might possibly the Right had dared to put forward – but probably tougher than the Right had dared to put forward. And since we thought we had come to an agreement with the Labour Party that held water, it is when I say that the next time we have the agreement we have with the Workers' Party. And we can't have it like that in Stortinget. Then we have to be allowed to say that the income target was not just meant for the very largest uses, it was meant down to the ‘use’, as it is formulated, ‘where agriculture contributes significantly to income and work’. And it's not just the uses that are over two years old. These are the uses which are the backbone of rural agriculture, which has all-round production, and from which we are now told that they too are falling heavily into income, despite the fact that it was already bad enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2044	The chairman of the committee, Morten Lund, has today made a play in the media where he has criticised Swedish food prices and has claimed that the Swedes are engaged in dumping. He has also criticized that they have built shops where people hardly live. It's true that there are many places on the Swedish side of the border where there are little people, and where there might be more elk. But the market for these Swedes is Kari and Ola Nordmann. I have never heard this claim before, that the Swedish have been dumping in the correct sense of the term of dumping. I have examined a little today, and it is correct that you have higher prices in e.g. Stockholm than in Stroemstad. However, this is a completely logical and normal market adjustment in a country where competition policy is in place and where there is no governance and regulation as in Norway. And that there are slightly lower prices in the Stroemstad area, Kari and Ola serve the North, and all the Swedes who live in this area, so it's basically an excellent policy. But I'm going to pursue this, because I feel it's a pretty serious claim to say that the Swedes are dumping. Can Morten Lund somehow document it, because I've never heard this before?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2058	Norway is a member of the WTO. We are there because we want driving rules for international trade, and many times we have said that those driving rules are important not least for small countries. The driving rules are intended to protect the business of countries from non-legal competition and the transmission of goods into the territory of another country at a price lower than that which can be defended is to be considered as dumping. When the committee was at HSH, we were provided with price studies that showed that if we put in a price of $0 per cent. kg to Norwegian food producers, however, the products would still be too expensive in relation to this. The centre party has evidence that prices on the Swedish side of the border are far lower than those permitted by WTO legislation. And that's what we're going to say. I have used as an example that if we in Norway released salmon for sale in large quantities on the Norwegian side of the limit of NOK 20 per cent. kg, when 50 kr per. kg was the usual price, we were going to be charged for dumping. I think that the trade that is now developing as we expand on the Swedish side can become a far, far bigger problem for us if we don't respond now. That is why we have addressed this matter today, among other things. based on what we heard on the radio this morning from Kjell Opseth, that now we have to pay Swedish prices. But Swedish prices are not just one price, it's a very special price level into the Norwegian border, and I'm not talking about Stroemstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2069	Morten Lund had an information that I think is sad: the centre party had not received any telephone calls from anyone who was satisfied. It shows what a negative picture they must have spread, because we have actually got up to several telephones to the Right Secretariat, and there are actually flower boxes in my office that could indicate that there are at least some farmers who are satisfied. But whether it's that they're not satisfied with the Center Party, or that they haven't received any subsidies to buy flowers, I don't know – or if there aren't enough lines. But evil tongues have said in the past that the Senter Party has no agricultural policy; they are against everything. Every change they're against, and they don't launch their own alternatives. I can't say anything about it, because I only have seven years of experience from this house. What's happened before, I don't know. In the context of the setting we are discussing here, it was an excellent opportunity for the Centre Party to show the Stortinget, the Norwegian people and the Norwegian peasantry exactly what the Centre Party and the Centre want to do on the four chapters of the State budget that deal with agricultural settlements – put in place where the limit will go for the roughage supplement, what to be the animal subsidy, what to change. You could get a vote over a very specific case. If you had used the energy to make an alternative instead of much of what you've used it for, you would have really had something to hit the table with at my discretion. But now it is rhetorical and empty words at my discretion when, in the form of proposals, you go in to send this back to the Government for new negotiations, which is not known to be adopted. But it would have been interesting to see a complete set-up of what the Center Party wants. Finally, I could imagine asking, what is the reason why the Senter party will limit the free peasant's opportunity to operate in cooperatives, for which the 350 cooperatives that are established are so excited, and for which I also believe the President is excited?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2080	The President shall not comment on it, but shall give the floor to Morten Lund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2083	The reason why we're skeptical about cooperatives is that it's been agriculture, it's been, it's been, it's been, it's been the majority in this room, because you've seen that drifting its own farm, running in its own home, is something quite different than building out big cocks as if a few years were going to be one spring and no longer is co-operation. We see that there will be major structural changes in agriculture in the future if there are no restrictions, and there is no more than one week since there was a large majority in the Stortinget who thought that we needed restrictions on co-operation in terms of volume and in terms of the number of participants. And we still mean that, and we get strong signals from the outside about it. The fact that people call the Right and say it's nice that the Right now got a head start on the Workers' Party makes it clear that the Right Members are happy – there are many members of the Right. I think it's fun for the representative Gabrielsen that he gets those phones. And the representative Gabrielsen has had a nice time, because what has happened to the Workers' Party has happened lately. When it comes to the question of why we haven't provided a detailed outline of the incomes of agriculture next year, it's because we're not on the Stortinge to sit and make calculations and come up with these details. That's what others have to do. We must draw up the policy guidelines for agricultural policy, and we must approve the agricultural negotiations and the results of them. That's what we've now proposed, and we see that what's coming is not in line with the guidelines the majority has drawn up, and that was approved in Stortinget on 9 May. That is why we have said that the government can start over, find the setting, try to read it and then carry out the negotiations until 15 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2095	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2098	The agricultural settlement that we are invited to discuss and adopt today means major changes for agriculture. It's a change of direction, but unfortunately, I think the Workers' Party is right when they say they have coverage for what they do in the big message that exists. That was one of the reasons why SV was very critical of it and in part had a very different view of how the message should have been. Now, at least in the period I have been responsible for this area, we have had it so that we have voted in favour of the agreements negotiated. We would have done that this year if it had been a consensus. It is not this year, and since SV does not sit on the business committee and it has not been possible to influence any of the things that have happened there, we have had to make our own proposal to outline how we believe this should have been. And I actually agree that if this were to be adopted in Stortinget, it would have to have been submitted with changes to the state budget. I am asking for an understanding that I have not had the opportunity to do so. The main direction SV wants is that Norwegian agriculture has to compete on quality rather than on price and quantity. There, I think the majority go in a direction that simply cannot be implemented, for Norwegian agriculture can never cope with that competition. The only competition strategy we can manage is to compete on quality, and to give the consumer the food that the consumer wants, and that there is an alliance between agriculture and the consumer on quality, which can ensure that a price can be taken out into the market. I therefore want an environmentally friendly Norwegian agriculture that guarantees the consumer safe food. In order to achieve this within a sound framework – and SV believes that we should have the same overall framework as the Government now has – we have considered it necessary to put a ceiling on transfers to the major uses. I'm also aware that this isn't as popular in all circles, but we actually think that's right. We want to bet on the combined uses, and we do it because we know that's where you get the most jobs out of the money, that's where you get the most district policy for the money, and we also see that in these productions it's easiest to get an ecologization of production and to bet on quality. We fear the industrialisation of agriculture, which we believe will advance the direction that has now been taken. We see that there is a competition strategy that we think will fail, and then we end up with a minimal agriculture. We end up with the fact that agriculture means very little to rural policy, and that is sad, and we end up with great problems in being able to keep up all the other good functions that agriculture has in Norway. SV has also fundamentally disagreed with the introduction of a tax deduction, simply because we disagree in principle with the inclusion of deductions from income into professional groups. I am aware that the organisations have seen that this has been an opportunity they have to increase their total return on the use, and it seems that it is in this direction you are going. But by this crossroads, SV chooses to mark its fundamental resistance to the path that has been set out on. In the past, the investment tax has been removed – it was mostly for the large and at least for the small ones – that was the wrong direction. Then the tax on fertilizer was removed – that was the wrong direction. And now you're doing a tax attack. And I ask, where does one end? Which profession is the next where to do this? And then where is the tax foundation of the welfare state, of which we are concerned? I also have to say that I am a little disappointed that both this government and the previous one have not shown a little more ingenuity in using the tax possibilities that are actually allowed within the WTO system, where you can charge for environmentally unsustainable forms of production or behaviour, and put it back in the settlement crown for crowns without affecting the framework. That's what you can do. And the SV would have wanted it done, and that they had used this money to strengthen organic farming. I address the proposal that is distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2115	The representative, Andersen, has drawn up the proposal she made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2120	Of course, you can wonder why the Right takes a line on SV in an agricultural debate, because we know that we disagree with the most important questions in that area. Karin Andersen belongs to a party that still uses the word ‘socialist’, and we know that the first socialists do is put private traders in links. And the very first ones that are put in links are always the farmers. In that sense, we just have to respect that we have a slightly different approach to today's debate. Otherwise, this was a very honest post. I appreciated that – with a small reservation maybe. Karin Andersen said that SV wants an environment- and animal-friendly Norwegian agriculture. I think it was an underlying premise in the wording that that is not the case today. If that's right, I'll very strongly distance myself from it. We have a highly environmental and animal friendly and quality-based Norwegian agriculture today. If it is – and it is well – that SV with the same framework will make it even more unprofitable to be small and rational, to produce on quality instead of on price and quantity, it means in all other industries that you have to take out a higher price. But if you're going to play some old-fashioned agriculture, and it's the government budget that's going to pay for that kind of business, we're of course going to disagree. But if it's the way it's always in production if you put emphasis on high quality rather than on quantity and price, it's always for the purpose of taking a higher price from the consumer. So if Karin Andersen can confirm that that's what she wants, I want to repeat what I said in the introduction: then it's probably a rather unrealistic suggestion, but at least it's an honest attempt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2127	It is quite right that SV wants more environmentally friendly and animal friendly agriculture than what we have today. We have said that we want a great deal of general ecology. We want to strengthen organic farming, not primarily because we think it's unhealthy to eat the usual food, but because we think it's more environmentally friendly in relation to the natural qualities to produce organically, and that's why we're betting on it. I have also been very concerned about increasing animal welfare. It is necessary, especially in the case of animal transport. Very many – too many – animals die, among others. in transport. These are numbers that I can tell you next. I have the numbers lying down with me. I think we should all be concerned about it. We have also been concerned about how, for example: the conditions are in the production of chicken. I can't believe we're not going to be able to get a more animal-friendly production in that area. In fact, I think that consumers will eventually ask for that. It's enough that very many consumers don't have the slightest sense that the food you've eaten has not been handled in a dignified way, as the living beings they've actually been. So ask us again if SV still wants transfers from the state budget to agriculture. Yeah, let's do that. I've said that we don't intend to spend more money than the government does, but we think we need to maintain a pretty large amount of support over the state budget for agriculture. That's where we're honest. But we actually want to turn this money over. The reason why we want to bet on the combination user is that we think it's a future strategy for recruitment, because the farming profession is lonely. A lot of young people want to combine farming with a different profession, and that's what we think is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2136	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2139	It has been discussed whether this is a sad day or not. I have recorded so far in the debate that here are the different opinions, and I will contribute to an assessment of the consequences of what is happening here today. There will be a difficult situation for many, and for some it may be a dramatic situation. I fear that too many, perhaps more than what has been common in recent years, will choose to set new plans for their future lives, plans that will not serve either agriculture or the districts where they have lived before. There are some of the consequences that one must realize after such a radical change in agricultural policy that is taking place today. It's always interesting to try to understand what's happening in a historical perspective. It is not as easy to assess today's agricultural settlement, which is taking place in the Storting and not through the negotiating institute, in such a context, because there are so strong structural forces that affect agriculture, regardless of this, perhaps as strong outside of agricultural policy as within. But there is equally good reason to note that there has been a significant liquidation of large parts of Norwegian agriculture over the past 20-30 years. Today’s settlement will definitely contribute to strengthening such a development. The Labour Party has not used the negotiating institute many times – I believe in modern times very rarely – to achieve negotiated solutions. The historical role of the Labour Party is not to use the negotiating institute, but to provide a relatively poor opening offer and then bring it in for the Storting to clarify, as we experience here today. Likely, much of this is a misguided development, but also a development that would have occurred due to other structural effects. Nevertheless, I think it is an observation – it must be allowed to reflect from this chair – that even though this has sometimes gone quickly, not least in the time of former Minister of Agriculture Øyågengen, it has happened with a certain style. I have to say, the debut of the Hanssen Council has not been the same. I think he's going to write into the story as one who's taken some grip he doesn't quite overlook the consequences of. I'm not going to put myself in the context of this settlement. I feel that it is a government's responsibility to include agriculture in an overall fiscal approach, and that one has respect for it by the Stortinge, even though one may have opinions that the previous government was able to arrive at decent agricultural settlements within tight and good fiscal arrangements. What I want to address is that they are – dramatically too strong a word – relatively powerful structural interventions taken in that context and taken in combination. I think I dare to venture the claim that there is no one who overlooks the consequences of what is happening in this area. The tax regime, which in isolation would be an exciting grip because it will be robust, is combined with very strong structural grips in the grant schemes. The effects in sum of such a powerful grip as this are so great that today I would like to have mentioned that I do not think this – of course not the Minister of Agriculture, who has not been so much away from this, but also his experts in the Ministry of Agriculture – dare predict the consequences of this. The tax regime — which was itself a rather radical act — should have been tried in isolation one year before entering and measuring some prices, and not incorporated into the strong structural changes in the grant schemes. The interesting thing is that many of those who don't read the political game, but look at this from the outside, had enough expectations for the agricultural message that was treated this spring, and thought that now it was a change of pace. The Labour Party was to move away from its historical role in agricultural policy and start to pursue a different policy with the centre. I'm not on the business committee and I can't put words on the feelings and the breaches of the contract that I understand both the committee's chairman and others have expressed. I register it and think it's going to have political consequences when the Workers' Party is going to have friends. I think it's as simple as the Stoltenberg government, which sprung up in March, needed to depolitize a lot of this spring by simply accepting most of the political issues that the previous government had been facing in the Storting, and which the Storting has been working with almost all this spring. And so it is that a big message is on the way for a seminar to be calculated – exams are on occasions like this, and that's what you have to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2157	The representative Sponheim drew a very negative picture of the Workers' Party as the negotiator, and I would like him to document that the Workers' Party has historically failed to reach agreements. It was probably a time in the 1990s when we did not reach agreements with both parties. But that we have negotiated agreements that have been submitted to Stortinget and have been approved is the rule and not the exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2162	It's just to look at the statistics of the last 10, 15, 20 years, we see that the Workers' Party has rarely succeeded in reaching agreements with both sides of the agricultural settlement. We had a change in the main agreement that made it possible to reach agreement with one, and it has happened on a few occasions, but one cannot say that the Workers' Party has some honorable history of reaching an agricultural agreement as envisaged by the main agreement – through negotiations and a negotiated outcome with both parties. It's quite striking that other governments have had to do it in this period to get it done. I must also say that I believe what we are experiencing today is an expression of a power struggle that is taking place internally also in the government party, where there are strong forces that actually look different on the importance of district agriculture. Then I'm not talking about the marginal hobby agriculture that Gabrielsen's representative pulled out, but about the many real laborers around the districts that run with ten-twelve cows and some other livestock production, perhaps combined with plant production, that pull the year's work up to twice what most of the others experience, and that now gets a heinous blow. I know that the representative, Mr. Breimo, would have liked to have seen that there was another arrangement for them, and it's quite dramatic effects for these. If the representative Breimo doesn't see it, I'd like to invite him on a study trip to Hardanger this summer. He'll get a comfortable stay too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2169	Fortunately, there was a completely different undertone in Lars Sponheim's posts than in the posts of the representatives of the other two former government parties. Apart from the phrase ‘swimming stroke’ concerning the type of production he defined, the insert was held in a very sober and proper tone. I am a little disappointed that it is not possible to challenge the previous government parties a little on what sort of settlement they had intended to make. Of course it's the responsibility of the Storting, but it's not that long since these parties were in government. They must have thought in connection with the agricultural notification of the framework for which they would enter into the pending agricultural settlement. There would have been a little bit more meat on our legs if we had thought about this -- because there must be a lot of billions of dollars they want in increased transfers to get to the rhetoric they're trying to add up to. Whether this is a sad day or not, it depends a little on the eyes that look. I think the sad thing about this debate is that an industry in Norway that, like most countries, is very dependent on political consensus, political transfers and financial support, chooses to deal with the large majority of population and seeks alliances with parties that are not close to being able to have a decisive influence on the policies that are being pursued. I would like to remind you – I have to make a small reservation – that there were some tens of thousands of postcards that the Bondelag sent to the Bondevik government and that the then Minister of Agriculture appreciated very little. So we're dealing with an industry that's behind the policy that's being pursued, which doesn't exactly stand out with great optimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2179	I thank you for the kind words of praise that I kept an article in a sober and proper tone. I must admit that I have never used the opportunity over the years I have been here to engage a lot in agricultural policy debates. It is partly related to the fact that this is something as rare as the subject I am trained in. This makes you so nuanced that it is not easy to engage in the big words, as is often required in politics. And the reason why I think it's important to take the word today is that today is a time change. I think some of that is going to happen in the future. Of course, it won't be possible for me to stand here today and reflect on what a center government would have done, but I'm absolutely convinced that we wouldn't have made such an opening offer like this, primarily on the structural sides, with the dramatic effects it has. I can be quite categorical about that, because at my discretion, this is a Hasardian race, and the effects can be quite difficult. The steps probably have to go in a slightly more careful direction than what's going on here, even if you want to go in such a direction. Let me say that I have been very concerned that I think it is a tone – if you want to be positive at the end of the answer in this line – that lies in the big message that was dealt with in May, which I hope and believe the government party will also be on the way forward. It is the many possibilities that lie before the farmers because they are sole proprietors and can be sole proprietors. They can live on an account and not on a salary. It's starting to become an exclusive knowledge, and it gives some opportunities for value creation programs or what you might call it. Anyway, there are some possibilities here that I think there should at least be a broad majority that more farmers should be able to exploit. They're capable people who know how to turn around when they see the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2190	It was constructive that the representative Sponheim, at the bottom of the previous reply to the reply from the representative Hernæs, expressed that the farmers are self-employed, and that they have the ability to obtain income in other ways, and also to affect their income on the farm in a completely different way than many others have. The value creation application is just making it possible. So we're going to combine a change in the structure of transfers with the order of the value creation program that makes it possible to make use of. Then the representative Sponheim says that we have had a decline in the number of farmers. Yeah, we've had that every year for a long time. But the actual ratio is that it never has more productive land used than it is today. And that's what's important for the nation of Norway, that the cultivated and productive agricultural area is used. And I'm sure that's going to happen in the future, even if we get structural changes. I would point out to the former Minister of Economic Affairs that he understands the changes in the structure that are now taking place to a greater extent than the other two representatives of the former central government that was at the head of the Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2199	Once again, I think it is important to say that it is far on the way today that he has been admitted directly here from the Chair of the Advocate-General that he would like to see part of the strong structural arrangements different. And these are the ones that I'm primarily pointing at are pretty dramatic, not least for the combination uses. Now the case rapporteur was primarily responsible for having lost the centre, so you should do something about it. But in fact, the Workers' Party is fully behind what has now been said. And we've said that we can't take responsibility for such strong grips. I would like to stress again that I don't think everyone fully understand the consequences of this in sum. Otherwise I'm a contemplative member of the combinations that the representative Opseth here expresses. I think they're many, and I think they're going to be more. But it is precisely the agricultural combinations that are being attacked to a very dramatic extent today by the decisions that are being taken. Nevertheless, we get to hope and believe that there may be other interesting business combinations based on a farm with a certain agricultural production. We hope for many people that there will be other possibilities for combinations. I once said it was as good for the towns as it was for 20 targets and IT as it was for 100 targets and cows. I hope there will be room for both of them in the future, but after the decisions made today, I'm not so sure about 100 goals and cows will be equally common in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2210	Then the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2213	I would like to begin by saying I am sorry that it was not possible to arrive at a negotiated solution at this year's agricultural negotiations. The government, in my opinion, went far both in terms of the framework and in terms of distribution in order to reach an agreement. In a broken situation, the Government has followed common practice by promoting a proposition for the Storting, based on the government's offer. If the negotiating system is to work, it must be such that agriculture achieves more with an agreement than when it is broken. The government's agricultural settlement proposal follows up St.meld. No 19, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The proposal is in line with the majority vote in favour of this communication, which was discussed here in the Chamber on 9 May this year. The central parties claim in clear order in the setting we are dealing with today that on several points this is not the case. This applies, inter alia, to: income development, the link target price and tax intervention, the distribution profile and market balance weighting. These are statements I take a clear distance from. I think the situation is the opposite of what the center party claims. When the centre parties see the impact of the majority position on the agricultural notification in practice, they run from responsibility. We can't be in on that. To take income first. The size has long stressed that agriculture is self-employed, with a high level of responsibility for own income development. This was done by Stortinget – including the centre parties – at the latest during the processing of the agricultural notification. As a prelude to the development of income, Stortinget said: «Good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments will increasingly be important for achieving such income developments.» The size has never guaranteed agriculture income development irrespective of efficiency, cost development or market adaptation. And of course, this is important. The reason why agricultural incomes have been weak in recent years is largely due to agriculture itself. It is mainly the overproduction problems that have led to a failure of income. Therefore, market measures are now going to be very profitable. Furthermore, it is shown that we trick with numbers when we refer to the fact that the proposal will in practice increase income during the contractual period for most types of use. The proposition shows both a change in the scope of income and the actual outcome of the contract period. The actual income estimates for agriculture are significantly different from the minus 400 million. kr in the budget for two reasons: 1st@item: inlistbox The actual price estimate is estimated to be minus 300 million. NOK 900 million. kr with which the target prices are reduced. As a result, revenue could increase by 200 million. kr in relation to the actual level before settlement.2. Much of the allocation reduction of 400 million. In addition, savings may be made in areas which do not affect the income situation of individual farmers. It is true that in the agricultural settlement we can only negotiate income opportunities. However, the performance check records actual developments. And actual developments also depend on developments in areas not covered by the agricultural agreement for self-employed workers. In terms of price and tax treatment, the centre parties claim that we do not follow up on the processing of the agricultural notification. Firstly, let's say that the tax system has an income for agriculture before taxes of NOK 900 million, or NOK 14 000. per 1 % use. It also left agriculture in its claim. Secondly, in the attitude of the agricultural notification, the majority, including the centre parties, said the following: «The majority agree to the introduction of a tax-based deduction of income which compensates for the reduced target prices.» That is why there is a very good basis for saying that the Government is following up both the wording of the setting and the intention. The purpose of the tax scheme is to compensate for the reduced target prices. Target prices are reduced by 900 million. kr, and the tax regime will be proposed with retroactive effect from 1 January 2000, but with half effect for the fiscal year 2000, because the target price reductions will also have half effect in 2000. Thus, the tax scheme fully compensates for the target price reductions both in 2000 and in subsequent years. In the case of the distribution profile, the agricultural settlement of the year has two main starting points: 1. implementation of the price and tax grip, including the flare-up of the structural profile of the production grants for land and livestock, requested by the Stortinget, and2. ordinary allocation of the settlement framework, which must be based on the Storing’s general assumptions about the allocation profile Price reductions and the tax regime alone will result in redistribution for the benefit of the smaller uses. Therefore, Stortinget’s premise was that the structural profile of production subsidies should be flattened so that this grip could be implemented as structurally neutrally as possible. On the distribution profile in general, the majority, which again included the centre parts, said: ‘The majority agree that it is necessary to redistribute the economic instruments of the Agreement on Agriculture towards uses which have a resource basis for making an important contribution to employment and income.’ The government's proposals follow this up. Through the distribution profile, we want to facilitate the possibility of a job as a farmer. This is also in line with the assessments made by the centre parties on recruitment in the agricultural notification. At the same time, I would like to point out that there is still a strong structural profile left in the financial instruments. Calculated per year the budget support for the use of between 5 and 10 cows in the West will continue to be twice as high as for the use of between 30 and 40 cows. The changes in production grants must be assessed together with the fact that the tax scheme acts as a production neutral grant of NOK 14 000 per year. use — a budget support of the same value for agriculture as a 900 million grant scheme. kr. Overall, the agricultural statement of the year gives an estimated actual income effect for individual use of plus NOK 5000 per year. annual work – not minus NOK 5000, as the agricultural organisations and representatives of the centre parties claim. Most uses have a positive income trend taking into account the actual market situation and taking into account all relevant factors. I'm surprised that the organizations and the centre parties are so misrepresenting these relationships. In this way, in my opinion, they mislead industry practitioners and the public. I have seen it necessary in my post to respond to the unreasonable claims made by the centre parties on the follow-up to the agricultural notification. Finally, let me say that the Government's proposal for agricultural settlement provides a good basis for further development of agriculture, an agricultural sector in line with consumer demand. Through the strong commitment to a value creation programme, we will contribute to increased diversity, exciting variation and increased activity in new areas. There is a market of purchasing power for this today that is not used well enough. At the same time, price reductions on the volume products must also give rise to an increase in the market for these products. It will contribute to the reduction of border trade and the security of investment in the food industry in Norway. Important improvements are being made to the market organisation for milk and cereals and a targeted improvement is being made to the instruments for organic farming. Such improvements and improvements in efficiency are also an important basis for continuing legitimacy for agricultural policy and strong agriculture with active producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2317	First, a comment on the State Council's explanation of the effects and interpretations of the agreement. It strengthens my belief that the model of an agricultural agreement is very little suitable. When there are so many distortions and different interpretations out there and going after we have worked on the first agricultural notification and then the agricultural agreement, there is clear evidence that this scheme is not working properly and should be abolished. I'm going to deal with another theme mentioned in the proposition, and that's the one with the market organisation for milk, which we have now had in approx. three years, and which have been criticised. Tine Norske Meierierier is a regulator, and among others Synnuve Find has criticised the scheme, because she believes that Tine has made crazy calculations and that there has been cross-subsidisation. I raised the matter in the Stortinget Question Time in January 1999 with the previous Minister of Agriculture, who obtained information from Tine, who concluded that there was no failure in the matter. And then we've got a report from the NILF that says the exact opposite. Here we have had both price dumping and cross-subsidisation, which is totally unacceptable. This would be a market organisation which would make operators competitive on the processing side. Now something has to be done with this system. We can't continue to have it so that Tine first misinforms the department, and that the government council is done so misinformed the Stortinget. So my question to the Council of State is: when you are about to change these balancing systems in the market organization, do you take into account that you have independent control, so that you can guarantee this in the future, and not trust Tine, who is not trustworthy? That's proven through the NILF report.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2326	We have worked a lot with the new market organisation for milk in connection with the settlement of the year. Of course, the state put a lot of work into it in advance of our offer, and we were in a dialogue with the organisations so long that this was one of the issues that the State negotiating committee and the organisations talked quite thoroughly through. One of the things you were concerned about then was getting correct numbers, so that you could relate to sizes that you could go well for described reality in a proper way. In this way, considerable expertise has been built in this area in the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Research, which was also involved in the negotiations. Now that we have finished today, we will continue to explore the formal functioning of the new market organisation in practice. It is at least my intention that in order to make this work over time, it will be important to be able to involve resource people in the review of the numbering material, so that all parties can feel the security of how the actual conditions are described.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2333	Of course, the Christian People's Party and Center are behind the premises that we were writing into the setting, and from which the Council of State quoted in its article. But at the same time, when you print a medicine, it's also usually a dosage associated with that medicine. To the extent that you start taking the whole medicine glass or the whole medicine package at once, it could have quite dramatic consequences. So it becomes too easy when the council thinks that one can go as far as one will go in the direction that one is gathered and says one should go in, and that one can take them out immediately. It is also true that when you are processing a message, you are assuming that you have set a direction for quite a long time. Therefore, I react to how a user uses these premises. So to the speech discussion. I register that the state council is the second time on Dagsrevyen today owes trade unions to cheat on numbers. In the last part of the setting, there is one letter from the Bondelag, and there is one letter from the ministry. As I see it, the letter from the ministry has not denied the realities of what the League of Nations is doing. And the way in which trade unions deal with numbers is based on the years that are now behind us, from 1995 onwards. Then it's clear that the real rise is NOK 5000 based on the prices achieved. That's right, but then one has changed the way of describing the income possibilities of the negotiations. So I want to ask the Council of State, is there any error in the history of the Bond Team here? Isn't it going on, a discussion of how numbers can be used? And won't it be a very bad contribution to creating a cooperation climate between the Council of State and an industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2342	I would like to start by quoting the answer to the representative Lilletun from an interview with the Minister of Agriculture of the VG, who has the following impressions: « Fewer cows, fewer farmers, larger farms and cheaper food. It is the agricultural policy of the future". Let me also draw a few short quotes. The Minister for Agriculture said: ‘I am convinced that the dehulling we have had from farming will continue in recent years. It means larger holdings. This will lead to more efficient agriculture, which is necessary to reduce food prices.’ It goes on to say: ‘The Minister of Agriculture believes Norwegian farmers should continue to serve about the same as comparable groups. This objective shall remain in place, but no guarantee of income for agriculture can be made. On the other hand, governments must provide the opportunity for income, which means that the creative person will earn the most. We need to make far more demands for creativity and innovation in agriculture.’ And one last quote: ‘Yes, I think transfers to agriculture will be reduced in the long term.’ This was said by the Minister of Agriculture on 27 August 1999, and his name was Kåre Gjønes. I think that the Minister of Agriculture here is presenting a very good agricultural policy, which I feel I can fully support, and which I believe we have followed up on this year's agricultural settlement. When I have used the term ‘false’, I have used it on the basis of the following: When the agricultural organisations have gone out and said that the government has given their own employees NOK 5000 in increased wages, while we get NOK 5000 in negative income, it is actually a wrong description. And it's repeated over and over again, despite the fact that at least I've tried to correct it by saying what actual development is like. Then I see it as describing reality deliberately wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2374	Yes, this is not easy, I understand. I saw the head of the Bond Team and the Secretary-General shaking his head when the Council of State now tried to explain this and vice versa. What I could imagine asking the Council of State for is exactly what is going on interpreting the setting that we had in connection with St.meld. No 19th@item: In the setting we're dealing with today, the center parties have a special comment, and it's really just special comments in the whole setting. One thing is that it says that the government is failing in total, but it's an eight-ten times it repeats that the government is deliberately adding up to a policy that is in direct contradiction to what the Storting has said. A government that deliberately puts up a policy clearly contrary to what the Storting has said, and even said it very recently, are relatively serious things. What, in my view, is also serious, and as I also said in my article, is that this agricultural message and this setting will have to have limited value for the afterlife because there is such a total disagreement about the understanding of these things. Does the Council of State feel that it is in some way weakening the whole possibility of anchoring the agricultural policy to be pursued in what the Council has said? What I could imagine asking for in the end is in relation to what is going on today, namely the agricultural settlement. Is it the institution, in the opinion of the Council of State, a suitable instrument to use in this area? Or does he share the views of big business politicians Alstad that this may have come to an end? Other speakers from the Workers' Party have stated that they have at least not gained any confidence in it, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2386	To the first question from Gabrielsen, I would like to say that I believe that the setting adopted by Stortinget in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 19, provides a good basis for anchoring the development of Norwegian agricultural policy in the coming years. I also remember from the debate that night that I was challenged as to whether I thought the cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre would continue. The question was particularly related to the question of the level of transfers in Norwegian agriculture in the coming years. Then I made it clear that I am a government council representing a party that has a program that says that the transfers in Norwegian agriculture must be slowly and gradually built down, and that it will be difficult to make this cooperation work, not least with the premise that lies there for the government party. I regret, as I said, that we were unable to reach an agreement. I think it is a pity that we here in Stortinget are unable to build further together with those with whom we managed to make the setting together. Similarly, I feel that the setting that is there provides a good enough basis for the management of the coming years. So short to the last question from Gabrielsen. It is very clear in that position that agricultural negotiations should be maintained as an instrument, and that is a position I have. At the same time, I will admit that to the extent that I have ever been in doubt about that position, there has been a doubt that has arisen in the last few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2397	Before it was decided that the agricultural message should not be drawn, we had a lot of meetings with the Workers' Party to find out what could be changed one way or another, so that we could agree on a position for the agricultural message. And one of the points that the Workers' Party gave a little bit about was that the district need to be reinforced, that is, the importance of rural agriculture. Now the committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, has said that it looks like we haven't completely succeeded. The Ministry will therefore check to see to the next negotiations whether it will not succeed a little better. Another area where it was reinforced and improved in relation to the Gjønnes notification was the income target. It was said that policy should ensure income opportunities in line with others. And that means there's going to be an increase in agreed income opportunities from one year to the next when the other groups have an increase in their income curve. An income curve that goes down for the farmers because the income opportunities of one year are getting lower than that of the other is not within such a objective. When it's discovered around the country that it's like this, that next year's income is going to be less than before, it's not because the center parties are misleading, but it's just because farmers can calculate. As a self-employed person, they have learned to calculate. They can count money, they can set up maths, and that's from there there comes a signal that that's how it evolves. So finally a question: what is the reason why it is not possible to increase the prices of potatoes, sheep meat and vegetables now, when there is no overproduction of the products that I mentioned here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2413	I have no problem quoting the targets related to income development in Norwegian agriculture. But what surprises me is that from the center parts you never quote the whole comment, but just the introduction. For afterwards, you also say, as I quoted in my post, and as I would like to repeat here now: «Good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments will increasingly be important for achieving such income developments.» - Then the whole note is quoted. This means that this year’s agricultural settlement assumes that good income development can be ensured even in Norwegian agriculture given that we are doing some good to implement the measures that the centre parties together with the Workers’ Party have pointed out are necessary to achieve this. And in the proposition, there are two ways crystal clear to see the effects of this year's agricultural settlement. One is to look at the effects of income opportunities, and the other is to ask the following questions: What kind of economic situation does a farmer currently have in different productions? What does he get in his wallet today, and what will he get as a result of the new agricultural agreement? And what I've tried to point out as part of reality at least, is that in relation to actual incomes today, the vast majority of farmers will actually get more income as a result of farming. And that's what I think belongs to the truth when you evaluate the effects of this year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2426	I would like to ask the Council of State whether the impact of this agricultural settlement on one of the areas that SV and I believe is an important, forward-looking market strategy for agriculture, namely ecology. Norway is an ecosink, and I have experience that various agricultural ministers use ecology that decorates only at parties. They have a strategy called Good Norsk, and Good Norsk is not good enough when you're going to meet the big consumer demand that's going to come up on ecology. That's what we see around the world. And then you would think that you wanted to look at this and be good at it, so it wouldn't be the import that would take this volume when it comes. In 1999, it was 10 pst. of the ice cream obtained from the consumer. For lamb it was 20 pst. And so eco-producers have to live more than others out of what they produce in a market that almost doesn't exist. In the country's original offer, there were 3.5 million. kr in support of organic organisations. And what we know is that it's the best co-players the State Council and the Ministry of Agriculture can have if we're going to achieve the goal of 10 pst. ecological area in nine or ten years. There was a consensus on this in the management of the agricultural notification. And experience from other countries also shows that there must be strong organisations at the bottom to achieve this. What is the reason why this has been removed, and is the Council of State's view that this should be strengthened more in the future? And in addition to that, why is organic farming not linked to the value creation programme? The value creation program is very good, SV supports it with all its heart, but what is the reason why you have chosen not to add it from the start?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2437	What is the main problem in Norwegian organic farming right now is that just a little bit less than 2 pst. the area currently grown is organic. It's not very much, and the goal is to get up to 10 pst. But then it's just about. 20 pst. of the animals belonging to this organically grown area are organic domestic animals. And just about. 20 pst. of the meat obtained from the market as organic products. That's why we've been very concerned in the settlement that we must now try first and foremost to stimulate that at least the animals that are soaking up the area that is organically grown become fully organically organically grown meat. As an instrument for this, we have moved the area grant for organic production from area to livestock subsidies, precisely in order to obtain more meat from the organic area that exists. We think it's an appropriate tool, and we get that evaluated when we've been looking at it for a while. As for the issue of ecology and the investment in ecology as part of the value creation programme, I think I fully agree with the representative Karin Andersen, the investment in organic production is part of the value creation programme. But the value creation programme only starts now beyond the harvest and will probably not be up and running properly until around the turn of the year, while, in a way, focusing on ecological market strategies is a work that is going on, and a process that must go on its own this year, but that should then be integrated into the value creation programme when it is up and going really well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2447	Most of it is, to say the least, in this debate, we have come a long way at night, but I think I must also take part. For the Coastal Party, the agricultural settlement is about the pattern of residence in this country. It's about employment, and it's about Building Norway and cultural landscapes. It's about food security, and it's about food distribution and not least preparedness. We had a little demonstration outside this house today, and it went on with the patent directive. There's a debate going on right now about that. If it's adopted, as suggested, we're in a situation where we don't have control of our own food supply anymore. Today there are four distributors of food in this country. They're the ones who decide to feed the people around the districts. If the small agricultural property disappears in the districts, how can you be sure that you get food at all? If there is a merchant who is not a member of one of these chains, he simply gets no product to sell to the population. These are big chains, and I know that at least one of the chains is negotiating with foreign companies to get bought. We risk that there are foreign companies that buy up the chains and that will be responsible for food distribution around the country. The Patent Directive at the top – full control! That is what we discuss when discussing agricultural settlements. Food security is being discussed and food distribution at all. I think it's a little strange when, in the opposite Gest Baardsen style, it's taken from the small ones and given to the big ones. There is little tax relief if there is nothing to tax. It is also a feature of the growing predatory problem. The state is taking part, the predators are taking part. There will be little left to slaughter and get on the sale team, so that you can pay your loans and your obligations. It has to be possible to see these things in context. I have to remind you that this looks more like a depopulation policy. I've already said it from this pulpit, it almost looks like we can't afford to have people in this country. That's the question that comes up. Everything is going to be turned into money. Everything is to be sold, bit by bit. If healthy food becomes a defect in this country and we don't have control of our own situation, that we've become housekeepers in our own country, then it doesn't help much that we have millions of books abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2460	The government of Stoltenberg has set itself the goal of transforming the public sector. The Prime Minister has said that in order to achieve this, it is an important commitment that they are involved. It requires an investment in the creation of a common platform and understanding both of the need for migration and of the way it is implemented. I agree with such a strategy. I think it's absolutely necessary. When we're going to bet on converting agriculture, it's not a good starting point to bet on a line of confrontation and indebtedness about cheating and fantasy. I hope you're willing to change this strategy and come back to what was a common platform. Furthermore, there are ongoing discussions on the calculation of income. Do you want to count on the potential for income there, or do you want one based only on the area prices, which the ministry has said is the basis for these 5000 kroner? I thought you should reason on why you've changed the way you calculate, and describe that change. And one should be able to gain by coming up with a common understanding of that. Then the State Council had Hanssen a quote from the former government council Gjønnes. Of course, the Christian People's Party is behind what he has said. But again, I want to go back to the medication, which the council didn't comment on – he didn't say this would happen in the next report. It was a long-term development. State councillor Hanssen just now said that it takes a while before we get the value creation program up and up. Yes, it does. It also applies to the other new revenue possibilities in place. Then it must be totally unthinkable that to achieve the income goal, one should be able to take out those things already now and say that it is a means of achieving the income target. I think time needs to be spent, and you have to spend the most time in the boot phase. That should be a reasonable way to do it. State Council Hanssen also answered a question from the representative Gabrielsen in relation to the understanding of the common position. It was crazy if one should cut down on the frame, if one should continue or increase. Then State Council Hanssen says that he had quoted the Labour Party's program, and that it would also be important in addition to the plural setting. Then I have a question to Hanssen State Council: Is it like this when you have written a common setting, that the Labour Party's program counts as much as that setting? Then I would say that we have to start writing common settings in another way, and there has to be a footnote: in this case, the common setting, and not the working party's program. I want to say it that the setting says nothing about the level, and then you can interpret it in two directions. But based on the other measures one should now, I'm going to admit that what's also being given is a development that's logical in the long term. But then the question is, how much should you start taking out? And then most people who have insight into an agricultural business, and unfortunately there are a few who have it, recognize that bigger grips have not been taken in a jafs than what is taken this year. It's said here from the case spokesman that it's sad that we wouldn't be sharing the cake a little differently to get rid of the worst results. It is interesting to see to the right that the case spokesperson says this in relation to something his government has put forward. The problem with that is that there was a lot of cake here before you started to distribute. That's why it was hard to get a proper distribution. I see that time is up, but I was finally going to ask, what about those who go down dramatically, like, for example. the pig producers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2481	As a new representative after the government change in March and as a member of the Business Committee, I think it has been interesting to be involved in the discussion of the agricultural notification and other business matters, and the agricultural agreement, which we have today. But I've also had a special experience of what kind of political rhetoric is being used, and language that is not particularly elucidating, but that may also obscure. This applies in particular to the use of the terms ‘target price’ and ‘market price’. It's not easy for people who read newspapers and watch TV, to understand the difference and the effect of the difference when we use these concepts in our reasoning. In newspapers across the country, we have seen that the farmers have a decrease of NOK 5000, while the Council of State claims that he should turn the sign and say that it is plus NOK 5000. I had an interesting conversation with an employee who thought he had tried to get into the agricultural business via newspapers and TV. At least it was clear to him – now it is possible that he was lingerie – that when it was said that income was falling, it was a real number. It was like that in each case for him if he got NOK 5000 less. It was a real number. Randi Karlstrøm was concerned that we should be precise in our language, so that we understood it, and that others could understand it. It's not that often we've seen in the media that the $50,000 is a decrease in income. It could be a task to go through all the newspapers and TV and see how many times it has been said and written. It is not hard to understand that the employee with whom I had a discussion took it literally, that there was NOK 5000 in cash in the wallet, and not an income option that was gone. When the difference in market price and target price has become as large as it has become, it is said that it is bitter to have to realize that it may have to go down. But what kind of alternatives are there? When the 1998 price loss is 338 million. NOK 846 million in 1999. kr and in 2000 is estimated at 1,248 million. kr, there is a situation and a development that makes something have to be done. And that's what the Workers' Party here has been trying to do. So the Labour Party has been deprived of all credibility in this debate, and quite a lot of words have been used. Then it's interesting to see what the head of the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research, Leif Forsell, has said. I count him as a credible person. I have read a lot about what he has said, both in the EU case and in agricultural matters. He says that: «the offer made by the State does not lead to a decrease of SEK 5000 per year at current market prices». Then he takes up the real situation and tries to describe it, as the Minister of Agriculture has done. I can quote what Leif Forsell said to Hamar Arbeiderblad at the end of the same interview: ‘Border trade has increased considerably and international trade conditions are changing. It strongly points to the fact that Norwegian agricultural products are too expensive. Industry also requires lower commodity prices. The farmers who are now shooting at the Minister of Agriculture ignore the external problems. The sum of the challenges is formidable’. So there's been a point here that there's never been a reunited settlement in the agricultural negotiations with the Workers' Party, and that there's been great performance by getting it done. It is clear that everyone wants there to be a agreed settlement, which is acceptable. But when we look at the numbers presented by the Farmer, that after such a jubile, the real decline in 1999 is NOK 7,800, then it has to be allowed to ask questions about this could be such a very good settlement. But then it's like in a year or something, if we just lubricate ourselves with patience, we'll see the real result. Then we all remember what we said in advance, and then we get to go back and see who got it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2512	Exactly a year ago, the majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, stated that: «The government's further work on the big business communication on agricultural policy must also be based on the objective of lower business transfers». The Hanssen Council of State has earlier in today's debate quoted former Minister of Agriculture Gjønnes as citing his corresponding objective. This comment came after the Stortingen had made sure that the total public-to-Norwegian contribution, in the form of budget support and tax relief, increased by a total of 1,765 million. kr for the previous two years. It was already clear a year ago that the trend of increased budget support had to be reversed. Furthermore, a unanimous committee a year ago realised that Norway would be meeting in the forthcoming WTO negotiations with requirements for reduced rates of duty and restrictions on the possibility of continuing market regulation through subsidised exports. These obvious facts seem to the center parties to have forgotten today, and chooses deliberately or unconsciously to ignore the reality we are in. Yes, we almost have to go as far as reminding today's centre parties of former Prime Minister Lars Korvald's correct observation that Norway is a country in the world. At least today, this very eloquent statement is made clear to Norwegian farmers. This is obviously the night for the big clichés. Concepts such as ‘removal of small-scale agriculture’ and ‘revaluation of rural agriculture’ emerge. And the representative Odd Roger Enoksen tells in the media today that this year's agricultural agreement means a breakdown of agriculture in large parts of the country. I'd like to say to Enoch and his like-minded people, you have a primary responsibility for today's situation. The warning lights should have been lit for the longest time. The consequences of our international agreements are not of a new date. They have grown a policy that has grown overproduction. They have cultivated a static agricultural policy, all of which have become losers – farmers, consumers and taxpayers. This has created a pessimism in Norwegian agriculture that is larger than in many years. And that happens at the same time as the total aid to Norwegian agriculture has never been greater than it is today. They have prevented competition in Norwegian agriculture. They have left to the trading councils and agricultural organisations, in accordance with the purest of the goats and the oat sacks principle, to keep the balance of the market. Agricultural policy has been faltered. For this reason, the same representatives today choose to spice the debate with misgivings that drifting Norwegian farmers should have been spared for today. There are no objective criteria relevant to the debate today. When some of the country's leading politicians know, but close their eyes to the many structural problems facing Norwegian agriculture, this is serious. Today, it is simply no longer possible to pay out of Norwegian agricultural policy-making problems, whether we like this relationship or not. The debate is held at a level where I understand that the farmer has reason to be disappointed – because there have been great expectations, because the agricultural settlement debate is more about who should win cheap political points than about what political action must be taken against Norwegian farmers and Norwegian consumers. As the Right has previously explained, it is something unreal about what has happened in agricultural policy, and what has happened in this house from the last month to the present day. I would remind you once again that the Centre and the Workers' Party signed up in each of the two words in a 100-page settings on the agricultural message. Today, the censorship, as the Right warns against, is that there is really a need for a new message – only one month after the previous treatment had ended – because the centre today chooses to ignore the structural problems that Norwegian agriculture is already facing, and because the centre creates an outward show by appealing to cross-cutting interests that simply cannot be reconciled. In fact, the Centre also chooses to cancel its own agricultural message issued by former Minister of Agriculture Gjønnes. Finally, I note that despite the fact that the Norwegian State spends more than NOK 20 billion in support of Norwegian agriculture, a high-quality starting point in production and very good environmental conditions, no one talks about the possibilities. I don't think Norwegian farmers should expect Stortinget to be best able to pull up this opportunity debate. They're best able to do it by themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2540	As we have heard earlier in the debate, there is no reason to doubt that the development of the trade agreements that we are connected with, the trade leakages that we see as a result of increasing border trade, and the problems that we see as the Norwegian food industry are constantly struggling with in relation to the competitive situation, mean that there is a need for dramatic structural changes in Norwegian agriculture, because Norwegian agriculture is the raw material producer in relation to the challenges that I have listed, but also for the products to be further processed. We want to be able to have an active agriculture, which is living around the district of Norway, which can at the same time ensure stable and safe food supply, but which can also ensure that we provide consumers with a product that they find acceptable within what can be said to be competitive prices. These are the elements that have been important for the government's starting point for the offer we have made to the agricultural organisations. I am not surprised that such a conversion can be seen as dramatic and difficult to deal with, nor am I surprised that such a conversion is problematic for the agricultural organisations. It will always be such that stakeholder organisations may find it difficult to promote policy changes, which must necessarily be unpleasant to individual members of the organisation. But because the challenges are so great, I had nevertheless both hoped and expected that the organisations would see the need for what was proposed, and seek to support this conversion, and that we, together through the negotiating institute, should seek to create a platform for further work. I am therefore very disappointed that it was not possible to reach an agreement with the organisations on this basis. I realize it's hard. But it's going to be even harder in the years to come, because the need just gets bigger and bigger. We can't postpone these structural changes. It just makes the problems bigger in the years to come. But I have a hard time seeing how we're going to do this if we can't manage to bring organizations and all parties on the Stortinget into this process, where through the negotiating institute we're going to be able to discuss up to the solutions that will enable us to achieve the goals that actually the middle parties here today have said that they see that we have to. But it just takes a little while before they're willing to take the take. Then it could be too late. Then the structural changes can actually be too late. Then there are many who have left the profession before the structural changes are put in place. I agree that we have to in months to come, just bite our teeth together and go into a dialogue with the organizations to see if it's not possible through that dialogue to get to what makes us succeed better in the negotiating institute for next year. But, like the Minister of Agriculture, I am of the opinion that if we do not succeed in the further process in having a dialogue on what is actually the challenges, it may be that the organisations themselves are playing the negotiating institute out of the political path.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2556	I think it was a very good post by the Council of State. He addressed the issues – that we cannot look back here, structural changes must be made and at a relatively rapid rate if Norwegian agriculture is to survive. If we postpone this in time, it's the Norwegian farmer and the Norwegian society that will lose. It should be a minimum common multiple for which all parties should really understand and go in, and not use all the world's substituting arguments to cement a structure with which the Norwegian peasant and Norwegian community are not served. I read a statement from LO Industry, I think it was, who had some good views on it, which I hope the Workers' Party will continue to work with. A number of studies have been carried out, including: from Bergen researchers, who say that we can maintain all the essential goals that the political environment agrees with in terms of agricultural policy, but by growing 5 million. dekar instead of 10 million. dekar and by half the number of farmers. We also know that Professor Normann Anesland at the Agricultural University in Ås says that we can maintain 10 million with the best technology. covers full production, but with 23 000 farmers. So it's completely possible to do this differently from today. And we know, and since previous government councils are responsible for the labour market, they have said that there are large areas in the district of Norway where there is no labour force. After some retraining and conversion of particularly younger workers, would it not be reasonable to channel them into new areas where they can contribute to greater economic value creation? It will be my question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2563	We're going to have an agriculture in the future as well, we're going to have young people going in and out of this agriculture, we're going to put on a viable use, and we're going to be able to create an income base that allows it to live on, and we're also going to make sure that it's possible to combine different industries in such a way that you can get a profession that actually makes you live on it, and have income trends that are somewhat similar to what the rest of society has. So the problem is not to retrain people who are in agriculture today to do anything else. The problem is to retrain agriculture so that we can make the best possible use of agricultural resources for both agriculture and the rest of the population. And I don't ignore the fact that it must be possible to combine work in agriculture and the family structure we have there, with many of the major tasks that we have in the public sector in the future, but it's not primarily an agricultural policy issue; it's also a question of school, education and labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2570	Of course, both me and the Christian People's Party and the Center that the Kosmo Council now makes it quite clear that he wants us to have an agricultural policy in the future, that we should have many who are employed there, and that we should take care of the multifunctional. But then he strongly emphasizes the change that needs to be made. And there's a lot of people here today, and we've recognized that there's a need for change. But I want – since Kosmo is appointed to the superminister to convert the public sector – to try a reasoning on the Kosmo Government Council. When he is about to convert the public sector, both he and the Prime Minister have said that it is necessary to have them added. That's point one. I assume he's agreed that there is also a debt in agriculture. Point 2 is that it's said that it's unthinkable to get more from administrative things directly to service, care, education and the like, and it sounds very logical and straight out. But is it that one then budgets the gain and then then converts afterwards, or is it actually such that one first finds out how to do it, one implements the action, and when one has an agreement that allows one to convert the people, one can also go on? What is it that makes a gain in agriculture first and then expect it to happen afterwards? We're talking about a value creation program. It's important. It's not up and it's still up, but it's up and running. Some other new revenue abilities are also outlined in the message and in the settings. They're not up yet. But here one first takes the profit, and then one says that agriculture itself is responsible for getting enough income. My question to Kosmo State Council is: would it not be wise to use the same thinking and methodology here as a do when you are going to convert otherwise?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2577	First, I must stress that people who work in agriculture are self-employed and not public employees. So it's completely impossible to apply the same strategy to the conversion of the public sector in relation to this by subtracting the employees' organisations and rights and obligations that they need in a conversion process, and comparing them with agriculture. That's why I say it's so important that we get with the agricultural organisations in this job, and that they don't sit on the outside and run campaign policies instead of negotiating policies. It must be permissible to say such words. Then the Minister of Agriculture has explained what developments in income policy this agricultural settlement will bring. Of course, some self-employed people will face greater challenges and have lower incomes than others, based on the structural policy objectives for which we should, as the Christian People's Party participated in the agricultural communication. But I believe, as the Minister of Agriculture has stated, that the state and the Storting should have a good conscience for the development of income policy in the sector, as well as for the major structural changes. Then we're all going to admit that there's someone who gets it tougher than others. It is because the migration of these uses and their needs is so significantly greater than that of others. But I will end by saying that I fully agree with the representative Lilletun that this will be extremely difficult if we don't get the organisations with us, but that doesn't mean that the organisations have veto, that means that we invite to a cooperation project in which they are also invited to participate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2584	I have to start with the so-called negotiating institute, especially since the Kosmo Council of State thought it was going to be even more difficult for the future to come up with agreements between the state and the agricultural organizations. Now, Kosmo is not primarily here to appear as a fortune-teller, but is it the history of the Workers' Party he has in the back of his mind, or does it mean the expression he used, "even more difficult", that the Council of State is searching for other and more worthy instruments in this context? The second thing I want to ask the Kosmo Council of State is the job that he has just taken up, where he wants to modernise the Norwegian state, given that every two days seven farms go out of production in the nation. Around 2,500 mills disappear from Norwegian agriculture per year. years. We know that we have quite a thousand employees in the public guidance agency in state, state and municipality – I don't know how many thousands, I assume Kosmo can help me find the correct figure within a certain margin of error. Will the Council of State in this modernisation job, which he is very commendable at, also ensure that this so-called guidance agency is slimmed down? This means rather brutal overheads, which affect the status of the farmer, when all of this is turned down in total public transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2591	I am in favour of seeking to limit government legislation, government administration and state bureaucracy in agriculture as well. Agriculture should not be exempted from the ambitions we have to make the administration so that it serves the users. This means that it must also have an impact on the agricultural administration that we have in the counties and municipalities. However, we cannot remove the posts, the structure and the money until we have adopted the changes in the rules that must exist, speaking of what the representative Lilletun had in the past. Therefore, this process needs to go hand in hand in hand. What I thought this would be even more difficult is that the demand for cheaper food, lower prices both for the consumer and for business, is going to be significant in the years to come, it's going to throw itself at us with full weight. We're too late. That's why it's going to be harder and harder to do this. It requires a greater degree of creativity from the organisations, but it also requires that we from the state are willing to perhaps spend some more time preparing the annual settlements than we have had the opportunity to do this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2598	Now I have to admit that I am in the process of having problems knowing how to deal with what the government representatives say in this debate. While the Minister of Agriculture has made a number throughout the evening claiming that the Government is dealing with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 and the vote, the Council of State, which is the negotiator, now says that it is necessary to make dramatic changes in the structure and underline this with the fact that there are going to be pains for quite a few. It's going to feel uncomfortable, but this government intends to go into it with its curly neck when you're going to grab on to this beyond the fall, cost almost what it will cost. The fact that he saw in a line change says that agricultural practitioners are to make up a labour force resource in the care professions, after structural changes are likely to involve not only working two, but perhaps three and four years' work in agriculture, and that it is therefore not in the hands of others, is now going to be so. But is the Government stuck to what's in the setting? Which of the trade union councils is what we should listen to? Is it the Council of State for Agriculture, which says that we should have a moderate change in structure, or is it the Council of State responsible for the negotiation, which says that there must be dramatic structural changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2603	I think the representative of Enoxsen should listen to both councils, because we do not say anything that is contrary to each other. I'm just saying in relation to the Norwegian food industry that agriculture is dependent on having an industry to deliver goods to. If that industry no longer exists, or if that industry buys the goods from abroad, it is the agriculture that suffers primarily loss, and we must seek to avoid that. That's why the challenges, as I see it at least, are getting pretty big in the years to come. That is a reason why the Ministry of Labour and Administration, as the negotiator, is presenting this proposition. This is primarily about agricultural policy, but it is also about consumer policy. It's about district policy. These are industrial policies. It is in many ways a question of agricultural policy, and it is in many ways a matter of social policy as a whole. That's why I'm so concerned that we're going to be able to get to a process for this that is so that we can have the organizations and hopefully also several of the parties on Stortinget with us. I imagine it's going to be hard. You can focus your words in different ways, but I see the challenges we face, as quite dramatic, and those challenges actually have the Storting described through the treatment of St.meld No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2610	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2614	Let there be no doubt that the Labour Party wants an up-to-date agriculture. We want well-bred cultural landscapes. Yes, we want all that a multifunctional agriculture is for. But we also want those who run the industry and have this as their main income to secure income in the future. When we know that the transfer level has to go down, we have to take action to make those who have this as their main source of income get a greater share of the transfers. Something else would be completely irresponsible. So one would like to say, as the representative Lilletun has done, that we should have started before, but that we should have taken less steps. Yes, if the government representative Lilletun himself had our members off, put another race in the two rounds of negotiations that the government has had, we might have had a slightly different situation today than the one we have. There may simply be a lack of understanding in the government of Bondevik of the problems we are facing, which means that we are now taking the grip that we are forced to take. Because we have to get started, and then we can discuss until we are probably blue, how extensive this really is. The farmers are self-employed. We must not forget that. The main challenge for industry today is overproduction. The farmers have missed approximately the contract price or the target price in the last few years. Two billion kroner because of overproduction. They have not been able to reach these so-called contract prices or target prices. And so today, we find that they use these target prices that you haven't achieved in years, as a starting point for making it clear how much they're losing on the basis of the declared value that has now been provided. I have to say that I can't find any other way to describe it than that, in any case, to say it carefully, it's to want both their own and not least that part of the population that doesn't know this well. At the top of the whole thing, I must say that I reacted strongly today when I saw a whole-page ad printed in almost all the country's newspapers, where they with the name of some farmers say that they lose so much and so much, but with exactly the same starting point. At the top of it, they're late to take care of the tax haven. It is simply too bad that the main agricultural organisations operate in this way. Nor does it seem that Norwegian Farmers' Associations or Norwegian Farmers' Associations are honoured when they argue that way. This does not make it easier in time. It's like Councillor Kosmo has said, "We're forced to quit." This is not a lift that governments can take on their own. They're not supposed to take it alone. We're content to have the organizations with us. My call is, and I would like to stress as much as I can, that the farmers' organisations are now going in themselves and are stoking up a new course with the government in the future. It's just the way we can achieve living settlements and a multifunctional agriculture in time. So I would also like to comment on the representative, Lilletun, and these pig farmers who had such a lot of fun. It has been said that they lose $90,000 on this whether they have 600 pigs for slaughter or around. The actual ratio is that if one starts with the real number, they win with almost $27,000. If we had added the same calculation as the Bond layer makes to their requirements for using this size, they would have demanded a decrease of NOK 73 000. No one is going to tell me that Norway's Bond Team and Norwegian Farmers' Teams had done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2627	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2630	The debate has been going on for a long time, and I shall not extend it in particular. But I feel the need to respond to the disinformation that the Farmers and the Small User Team are trying to give their members, in a good way with the Center comrades. It was the farmers' organizations that broke the agricultural negotiations. I'm assuming that we're all together and they can also stand by. The reason we've been served through the media for weeks, and so many times it's said that it's almost become a truth for professionals. Now, however, in the tactical game that is involved in such discussions, the parties put in their offers and demands. In the course of negotiations, one meets at a golden intermediary. It should also have been done in this year's agricultural negotiations. But the Gallup of the Center Party was so far above the barrier during the negotiations, and if this special interest party were to be afraid of next year's elections, the peasant leader had to put on the political cloak and choose to sacrifice his members in this tactical game, or rather sacrifice them. We're all familiar with the number magic of the year's declaration. But the fresh 200 million that came into the negotiating table last round, and the opening that was given about how the priorities should go, for much or less use, we have heard very little about. The team leader played a high game with his member mass. As a result, a large number of users were lost to this task. This should be noted by professionals. The farmer's team leader should have held on to the ball until she got it into the goal, instead of hanging the player out, when the fault is in his own layers. The government took the agricultural message seriously. It said something about who should give priority. So grown should they also have been in the League of Bonds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2652	The Progress Party considers that the present complex agricultural agreement whereby producers set up their activities on the basis of subsidy and regulatory arrangements and where a large bureaucracy is linked to generally unbridled conditions must be replaced by a market-based competitive system. Similarly, the Progress Party would point out that agriculture has long been entrusted with rural policy tasks, such as ensuring settlement outside central areas. It seems clear that allocating a considerable responsibility to agriculture for the settlement has been a partly unsuccessful and obviously costly way of trying to achieve this. Based on the available figures from the OECD and the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research for the period 1972-96, an estimate of the total aid is DKK 900 billion measured in 1996-krones. In this period, ironically, almost half of all use disappeared in the country. The Progress Party therefore believes that agricultural policy has helped to weaken districts and make them less capable of developing a sustainable business life and thus helped to strengthen the trend of centralisation. The policy pursued has led to a distortion of the distribution of public resources in the districts, with the result that the community has had too few jobs to offer. The Progress Party is convinced that the need for an alternative agricultural policy becomes apparent as costs are perceived by more and more people as unacceptable, the self-coverage of most traditional agricultural products exceeds 100 pst. and the production of surplus continues to be dumped in the international market. We therefore believe that there is a strong need to implement radical legislative and regulatory changes that allow agricultural turnover, output and structure to adapt to the future market. An agricultural policy which does not require consumers to transfer through budget support, consumer subsidies or screening aid will provide products at the lowest price possible. The reduction of monopolies and the introduction of real competition will guarantee consumers choice between different products. The Party considers that the self-employed in food production must base their activities on production which is business-economically sound and not on subsidised special schemes. At the end of the day, the Progress Party will be very positive about models that are more distinct from full-time agricultural activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2673	Despite harsh claims about the shift of lines, furrowing and fraud in relation to the agricultural notification, I would argue that both in terms of income formulations and the need for structural changes, the Government follows up the intentions of the majority comments of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. With regard to the tax treatment and the time of full effect, it is noted that the tax relief shall compensate for loss of income by reducing the target prices. This is clear from St.meld. No 19, where, among other things, said that the deduction of income shall compensate for reduced income opportunities ‘when the target prices are reduced’. The same large majority have not assumed that it is only through public transfers that agriculture should be guaranteed the same income development as other groups of society. The majority underlined the following: «Good use of market opportunities, increased diversity, a balanced market, structural changes and reasonable cost adjustments will increasingly be important for achieving such income developments.» In the examination of the agricultural notification, Stortinget endorsed the establishment of a value creation programme for Norwegian food production. The programme will be funded with a total of 500 million. kr during the first five-year period. In my view, with the changes that need to be made if Norwegian agriculture is to meet the challenges of the future, this will be a very important initiative. After the break in agricultural negotiations, a claim has been made that one on average per year. use will have an income decrease of NOK 5000. This I would claim is disinformation. Compared to the actual income earned by the farmer last year, the country's offer represents an average increase in income of NOK 5000. According to the United Nations on 2 June this year, Norway's Bondelag and Norsk Bonde- und Småbrugerlag have also said no to another 200 million in the negotiations. kr on behalf of Norwegian farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2691	This agricultural settlement is a small step towards giving the farmer greater freedom. I think Lars Sponheim had a correct representation of the individual farmer as a self-employed person who quickly saw new opportunities. This is entirely in agreement with the Right. It is therefore an important part of our agricultural policy to give the farmer a greater lever and greater opportunity to choose new ways of using them. We are therefore very pleased that in this case we have been given a pass to remove part of the limits of co-operation. The opening of co-operation has already been a success, and hopefully it will be an even greater success after this case. Co-operation provides users with a wider professional and social working environment, the possibility of more flexible working time arrangements and, in particular, enables them to share the investment. It is therefore very disappointing that the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not show the farmers this trust and allow them to choose the size of the cooperative itself. This is a position that is in stark contrast to the representative Sponheim pointed out in the change in line, and shows that the idea of the farmer as a self-employed person does not really put anything very deep in the centre parties. This was well illustrated by the representative Jon Lilletun, who talked about agriculture as a public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2698	I have joined the debate that has been here today, and I have gradually become very concerned. It is clear that the black paint of the future of the agricultural industry has become a political only-start that, in particular, the middle parties are perfecting themselves today, to a much greater extent than before. With the signals that these parties send out, well-spent by the organizations, I realize that people think about several times before they take serious steps to choose this career path. In spite of the fact that the agricultural policy adopted today is in fact a continuation of the decisions made by the Minister of Agriculture of the Central Government. And the dissatisfaction that is now being spread is itself dramatic for this industry. It may be an advantage if everyone starts to relate to what is actually the income of the farmers, and not to theoretical models – also called target prices – for pricing that have nothing to do with the survival or income of the farmers. So it's not income that we live on, it's income. But it is possible that I am alone in this country to be optimistic on behalf of the industry I come from. We must at least stop believing that we are living in a planned economy where politicians determine the price of a product. It's never been like that, and it'll never be like that. Farmers have always had to live off the market and, of course, have to do so in the future. What strikes me is that over the last ten years we've been arguing about how the settlements really turn out, and that's in itself reason enough to look at this kind of practice. But when the negotiations are over, either through a solution or through a break, we must at least follow up on this as we always do, with respect for the results that come out of it whether there is agreement or not. If the organisations are unable to take responsibility for what they are doing, it is not our job to do so as long as you operate with the negotiation system. That is why I believe we will see the end of the agricultural negotiations and that the farmers will soon have the same opportunity as other traders to influence the framework conditions. There have been five breaches of agricultural negotiations since 1990, and the farmers have lost a lot of money. I am sure that agriculture cannot afford to have its organisations break the negotiations again and again. No other trade unionist would find himself in it, and I don't think the districts can afford such markings either. I record that other traders succeed in reaching out with their views here in the house, without them being dependent on their own negotiations with the state and with the restrictions it imposes on the later work on the framework in Stortinget. I think it is time for farmers to have the respect that other traders also have. I think, as I said, it's just a matter of time before the individual farmer also discovers what's going on, how pointless it is to relate to theoretical models that don't give a krone from or to income, how hopeless it is to have organisations that constantly ensure that farmers lose money through the negotiating system and through lack of accountability. Then I think the time is also ripe for agriculture to close the agricultural negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2713	Black paint or rose paint – we have to relate to reality. I see St.meld. No 19 has a clear and realistic recognition of it, both in terms of price gripping and structural adjustment. Therefore, it is serious and brutal whether that is what the representative Gabrielsen claimed, that the value of the agricultural notification agreement is equal to zero. I also note that it is not only the centre parties that believe that the state's offer violates the message's intention, and that there are differing views on who has jumped from St.meld. No 19th@item: That the farmers are acting and protesting is understandable. They believe that the country's so-called offer in the agricultural negotiations of the year implies a reduced income option of DKK 5200 per year. annual work, and that the state had hardly dared to give other groups a minus settlement. Now the Minister of Agriculture is of a different opinion, but it is alarming that the Government of Stoltenberg changes the method of calculation in relation to previous years and produces it in such a way that the Government's proposal implies an increase in income, when the incorporated method of calculation shows a reduced possibility of income. And it is a powerful diet when the Minister of Agriculture claims that farmers cheat with numbers. No one can certainly describe how the actual income figures will be for next year, but some of them can be said about the income possibilities. In St. prp. No 82 states that ‘The government builds its economic policy on the Solidarity option’. I have to ask, solidarity with whom? For a long-term industry predictability is essential. It's about more than changing jobs. The approach involves dramatic changes for rural agriculture. Medium use with several species of animals is the large losses, which are not in line with the indications given in the agricultural notification of a gradual and moderate priority in favour of uses where agricultural production constitutes an important contribution to employment and income. That is why I am pleased that the rapporteur says he will ask the Department to assess the impact on medium-sized applications with versatile production. I interpret this as a recognition that you have gone further than the agricultural message provided. The consequence of the farmers constantly getting reduced income is not that we get cheaper food than the Swedes. With our natural conditions, climate, topography, distances and all our regulations, not least regarding the environment, buildings, work environment, etc., we cannot compete for quantity or price. In terms of quality and purity, however, we take precedence over many other countries. Therefore, we should focus more on exploiting the opportunities we have, and in this way – to include a positive thing – the value creation programme is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2724	I have followed the debate with interest. And what interests a representative from the Nord-Trøndelag is that one tries to catch a signal, not least when the Council of State also has membership in the same county and we experience representatives from the same county – I am referring to the representative Alstad – who in some way have conflicting signals, but from the point of view of the debate are trying to appear with a united signal. But from that I think it's very interesting, too many words and expressions that I recognize have emerged in the debate. In particular, I think it is interesting that the representative Opseth directly says from the pulpit that the transmission parts have to go down. Several representatives from the Workers' Party have used the expression self-employed about farmers – and I think that is very good. I also think it is appropriate that several representatives from the Workers' Party now take a settlement with the organisations representing agriculture. It is clear that in today's lodging there are many broadcasts from the agricultural organisations that may turn around in their chairs. But I think it's in its place. But once I tell you, it's too late. The Progress Party has said for ten years that perhaps the big bad shoe in relation to the fact that we are allowed to view the farmers as self-employed, and that they will be allowed to operate as self-employed and be taken seriously and respected – as the representative Alstad of the Workers' Party is trying to express – it may be due to the organisations. I believe – without prejudging the proposals that are pending – that at least I see that there is a grip here that goes in the direction that we might achieve that the farmers are allowed to act as self-employed workers. But I have a small challenge for the Council of State, because I've taken the liberty of getting out tomorrow's edition of what's called the Tronder-Avisa, and then I'm a little disappointed. The councils have, as you know, been attacked very strongly in their own state, and then he uses the scare propaganda that if they don't do what you want now, it's the Progress Party that gets its will. It's in Trunder-Avisa today. I want to challenge the Council of State on what in the world it is he means by it, when, after all, the Party of Advancement is not in any way in a majority position. And I would also like to ask: When is the Workers' Party willing to go further in relation to facilitating the rules for the self-employed now – as we agree that the farmers will become?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2735	I must confess that I experience this debate as unreal – yes, as a struggle for reality, a struggle for numbers. When the Minister of Agriculture joined and treated the agricultural notification, many farmers were positively surprised by the signals coming from the Council of State and that he wanted to cooperate with the centre parties. Unfortunately, that reality did not last long. The media have given us the impression that the mood is now among industry's practitioners in relation to what the agricultural agreement looks like, and that is despair and pessimism. The Kosmo Council of State frankly said that the industry is facing dramatic structural changes and that it would be painful to the transformation before it. Then he also said at the same time that he still wanted a living villager. The same signals sent out the partners of Kosmos, the social democrats in Sweden, when they were able to depopulate rural areas through raw changes in agricultural structures, and received support from the Moderates. Cosmo knows just as well as I know what the result is. It's like a lot of people think about how the industry has gone down, and not least the organisations. But to be honest, the professionals and agricultural organisations also have a natural right to express concern about the reality they face. But what do they meet with? Yes, characteristics and juxtapositions. They'll meet with that. It is the total lack of respect expressed by such characteristics that does not help to obtain good solutions through cooperation, for which both the two Councils have expressed their wish. The fact that the Progress Party and the Right are very pleased with what is now in the agricultural agreement will not surprise anyone. But I actually think the Council of State and the Government of Stoltenberg should be a little careful to be embraced by these parties, because it's not very long since a former Council of Agricultural State in the Workers' Party led an agricultural policy that made Carl I. Hagen offered honorary membership in the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2751	The rapporteur, Mr Breimo, was concerned about the structural development of this agricultural structure. He has every reason. The small and medium-sized all-round combination uses become the victims of this settlement. It's far more than hobby farming this is about, as the representative Gabrielsen tried to express it. Many people have their profession and their existence on such uses in Norwegian agriculture. The representative, Kristiansen, said this was an exorbitant play. I think there might have been something to say. Every play likes to have ingredients like fools and executioners, and in case I think there are others who are also very active actors on this stage tonight. I think Gabrielsen has done quite well that he has put his hand over the Workers' Party – as he said on television a few nights ago – and also over Norwegian agriculture, I want to add. And Hedstrom won't just wind up, he'll do Norwegian agriculture, as he sketches it. It is worrying that we have the trade leakage we have. But it's not just Norwegian agriculture. Why won't those who worry so much about food prices do a grip that they can do without any problem: to take away the high tax we have on Norwegian food, by reducing the food tax. It represents about a quarter of the final price of Norwegian food. Ansgar Gabrielsen says that we should use public funds as an alternative and get other businesses in the districts. How does it harmonize with the Right Policy in terms of e.g. SND? The value creation programme for this settlement was good. But it remains to be seen how long it will last, cf. what is now happening to SND and its use. When Hedstrøm talks about the Norwegian food price and compares with the Swedish price, he should perhaps also include the salary and tax level in Sweden. Is there such a development Hedstrom will have? Multi-functional roles in agriculture have been mentioned. However, preparedness policy has been very little affected – food preparedness and self-sufficiency. We really don't have any overproduction if we think globally, and in this room we are very often reminded that we're going to think globally. It is largely a misdistributive policy. Small-scale agriculture is the best guarantor of robust and strong agriculture. The Chernobyl accident showed it. Pure food is produced better in small-scale agriculture than in industrial agriculture. I think this should also count when we put the structure through such an agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2774	I felt that it was necessary to extend the debate by at least three more minutes, because I would like to comment on the statements of the Kosmos Council. He made a point that there was a big difference between negotiating with employees and negotiating with private traders. I got the impression – from the way the minister expressed himself – that it was apparently not so careful how to negotiate with private traders that they were actually negotiated with them out of pure genius. It sounded this way out of the way it was formulated. I think it's a little weird, and it's mostly historyless. This is a social agreement with private operators. It should be equally appropriate and sensible to negotiate with them. Moreover, farmers must bear the consequences of such a negotiated agreement more than perhaps many employees must. There's another kind of negotiation. They do not have employees’ rights as in the NNN, but they have pride, sea urchins, navigability, equity – and they have inheritances with which they make. A social agreement is to be negotiated that has been negotiated throughout the post-war period. It's historic. It is not new that one negotiates, and that the farmers are private traders. This is not something new that someone has discovered. It's been like this all along. In negotiations, Rule No. 1 is that you have to build trust, and that you have to make sure you figure out a win-win solution. You might not get that far by going on a learning and all-knowing line, where you've got the best of people, that they don't understand their own best. There have been claims of black paint. It has been black paint throughout the 1990s. I've seen developments in my own state, Finnmark, in the 1990s. It could be said to be a very marginal area, where you can test a little bit of effects. Here I have seen in the 1990s that the undergrowth of small uses is gone. The establishment in 1996 resulted in a reduction of income of less than 30,000 annual work on sheep. The year after, the sheep-bows in Loppa nailed the door again. At the same time, the sheep population increased in central struts. And this race continues. But what's serious is that it happens so much faster. And it happens at a rate that becomes difficult for the private traders who have to bear the costs of this themselves and follow along. It might look OK on the paper, but the effect for farmers who see that it's minus NOK 5000 and calculates it is that it can vary between 10,000, 15 000 and 20,000 kroner – both ways. It creates fear. That's not what we needed now when we were going to do the conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2791	In many parts of this debate, I have been very disappointed because there has been a lot of pretense, little realism and little vision of politicians' contributions to the future of Norwegian agricultural policy. But after hearing the Kosmo Council, I see the future brighter. I'm going to quote Kosmo in agricultural debates and district policy debates in the future. As I said in a previous post: LO Industry has a programme for rural and agricultural policy that I hope the Workers' Party will continue to work with in the future. He said that quite correctly: the Norwegian food industry is an important industry with many thousands of jobs on which we depend. It cannot survive if it does not receive raw materials at a competitive cost. And if the Norwegian farmer can't get it, they'll have to go somewhere else. And if the Norwegian consumer does not get food at competitive prices, he travels across the border to Sweden. I have said this before: there have already been several ‘Little Norway’ on the other side of the border, which has become a long trading disk. There you meet your neighbors, the sibling child from Gjøvik, etc. This is going to evolve, it's going to accelerate if no Norwegian politicians take this inward and confess to the world of reality, no matter what the committee's leader and the centre party wants when they talk about dumping Swedish food. It'll just be a passing phenomenon, they'll be more proficient and more proficient. The Swedes are in front of us here at home – food prices in Sweden are 27 p.m. above the EU average, and they will have even more competition in their system. So this is what we Norwegian politicians have to take in and learn from other countries, in order for the Norwegian farmer to survive and be competitive in the future. But do we have any entrepreneurs and industrialists from whom we politicians can learn? Yeah, personally, I feel like we've got it. In Gausdal we have a farmer named Simen Fougner, who produces without having to accept any support. He has even had realistic plans for the export of pigs. But he gets criminalized, because he stays a little above the concession limits. And then we have on the East Toten Per Idar Wing Hill, which was stopped by Norwegian politicians. Two former government councils, agriculture ministers, were and were prized his integrated concept, primary production and dairy activities. Also a prime minister was there and said, "We need a corrective to Tine." He started off completely legally outside the milk quota system, but the politicians managed to kill his business by introducing a new law that everyone would produce within the concessional limit. There we can teach politicians how Norwegian farmers can develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2802	On 9 May we had a debate that several of us thought would become important to the agricultural industry. For the first time after treatment of St.prp. No 8 at the beginning of the 1990s there was agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party on something as important as the question of the future of agriculture. And the result of the treatment of that big message gave cause for optimism in the industry, although of course not everyone was satisfied. I also made a post in which I expressed satisfaction that the right was finally parked in the agricultural policy. What has happened after the treatment of St.meld's settings. No 19, is something like X-Files: you don't believe it until you see it. I had actually not dreamed that I would have to eat in my statement about the Right place in agricultural policy so quickly. Today, in this debate, the Labour Party reiterates the sad fact that it is the centre responsible for the amicable settlement that the Government has presented to the industry. I had actually believed that the Workers' Party was mature enough to take responsibility for their actions and did not feel a need to blame others when one has made a roar. I was also thought to be mature enough not to make the kind of pointless claims that we heard the representative Sigrun Eng come up with earlier this evening about the Bondelag's leader. Tonight, we have seen that the Minister of Agriculture has been embraced by Højres Ansgar Gabrielsen – not just tonight, but the Minister of Agriculture has become constant after the presentation of the offer to the agricultural industry. And we have at the top of it all seen that Øystein Hedstrom has now also embraced the Minister of Labour and Administration and the eye hope for a new direction. It is increasingly clear to me why the Right considered it important to contribute to a government change on 9 March. We have seen it earlier today in the treatment of the municipal economic proposition. We have now experienced it during the processing of the farm. There has been a black day for District Norway, and despite the fact that several of the representatives of the Workers' Party say that the setting of the agricultural message is permanent, I have to say that I am strongly in doubt, and I rather regrettably for the same opinion that the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen has expressed several times in previous debates, that vote has been put to death, with the support of the Right. We have been given a makeup of what we can expect from the development of agriculture in the future from the Minister for Agriculture and from the Labour Party's agricultural policy spokesman. We've got an undefiled version from the Minister of Administration. I think at the very least the Labour Party at the end of this debate may be mature enough to give the industry and the Storting a hint of what you can expect in the years to come. I have also recorded that the Minister of Agriculture said in an interview in the media that you take a first careful step tonight. It has also been confirmed by Jørgen Kosmo, and I think the Workers' Party could be mature enough to acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2813	Enoch said it was a black day for District Norway. At least let me say that something particularly brighter and brighter had at least not happened if the centre party had had more of a hand on this steering wheel. At least that's for sure. Going with blindfolds for your eyes is not exactly a light experience. I have a question for the Central Party at the end of this debate – or to the centre in so far, but let me ask the question to the parliamentary leader of the Central Party. In the position we are dealing with today, there are, in my opinion, eight-ten comments from the centre that, individually, involve distrust of the Council of State, or, for that matter, of the Government. It is repeated eight times that the decision to raise is effectively set aside by the Government. My question to Enoxsen is simple: does the Central Party have confidence in the Council of State that has put forward this proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2820	It is not a pleasant thing to be with and extend the meeting at this time of the day, but part of what the representative Enoch said, demands that one take to heart the protest. When the representative of Enoxsen makes this as a black day for Norwegian agriculture and for District Norway, it is completely wrong. The worst thing we can do for Norwegian agriculture and for District Norway is, of course, pretending to be nothing and not doing anything, which the Center Party has a tendency to – wanting to preserve the existing and not look at what is required for change, is the Central Party's identification. It's more the opposite, so that one should be happy that the Storing has taken over that there is a need for change. And if we don't make these changes now, which we've been through several times in this debate, it's going to be a trip that we're going to before or after, and then we have no control or control over which way a fall falls. So I think we're going to be happy that someone takes responsibility and started a process that's been still for two years now because the Bondevik government hasn't followed up on it a start in 1986.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2832	I actually thought that the representative Opseth had registered that in the setting of St.meld. No 19 lines for the development of Norwegian agriculture have been drawn up in the future – guidelines on which we stand together, guidelines that lie in the future and which provide the basis for industry optimism. And when the representative Opseth now performs to say that the Center Party wants everything to be as it has been, it's actually wrong. Then Opseth should take the trouble to read the setting, which he himself has been agreeing to write, again. Then to the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen. The first person who said in this room that the setting of the agricultural message was no longer valid, and that the government had disregarded it through the offer to the agricultural industry, was exactly the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen. I assume that it is as important for the Right as it is for the Center Party that decisions made in this room are being complied with. And if the Council of State has my confidence and the confidence of the Central Party, only at that moment will the Right also be able to answer that question, whether it is important for the Right that decisions taken in the Storting are complied with, decisions that the representative Gabrielsen has repeatedly said have been disregarded by the offer made by the Minister of Agriculture. So it could be loving to return the question to the representative Gabrielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2843	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3784]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2857	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2866	Norwegian reindeer industry had actually deserved a fairly broad debate – in the daytime – on its situation, on its prospects and its framework conditions, and in particular on the situation we have in Finnmark County. For Norwegian reindeer industries – not least because the authorities have failed in their reindeer management policies. Today's situation, especially in the interior of Finland, is very serious. We're still not getting any closer to a balance between reindeer and grazing grounds. It is therefore a unanimous committee today so clearly emphasises that unilateral use of the reindeer management agreement’s instruments to adapt the reindeer to grazing resources is not sufficient and that it does not serve as a tool for adapting the reindeer numbers. It is therefore deplorable to record that these conditions have been taken up continuously since the treatment of St.meld. No 28 for 1991-92 Sustainable reindeer management. The Committee notes that the problems only increase to an extent. That is why it is our hope that the Minister of Agriculture is now addressing the challenges, and therefore a unanimous committee is asking that the Government, in cooperation with the reindeers, set a maximum figure for each district. We are now almost overtime in terms of the need to get the new common beds, i.e. the new district division, in place – a job that should have been completed. I also ask the State Council to carry out a review of the reindeer management. In today’s vulnerable situation, it is essential that management can combine sound legal competence and industrial policy expertise with understanding of local conditions and traditions, and not least understanding of Sami reindeer culture. I would also like to stress the need for increased efforts to promote reindeer meat. The Committee sees the potential for further development of the processing industry. Such a commitment could lead to increased employment in industry, and it is not least important to ensure that the processing industry is developed in order to meet the requirements which, among others, are met. The EEA Agreement authorises production.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2884	The current reindeer management agreement has a budget of 80 million. kr to implement the measures agreed by the parties. The working party wishes to emphasise that the reindeer management agreement, in addition to the reindeer management law, should be a good governance element for the development of sustainable reindeer management. Although reindeer farming is a small industry, it is an important piece in the Sami culture and is about employment, housing and development for the Sami people. It is therefore important that this industry should be based on an ecological understanding. The working party agrees that in order to bring about an adjustment between reindeer and grazing resources, interaction between the parties concerned will be required. We have noticed here that the parties to the agreement agreed to withdraw from the negotiations matters relating to renumbering regulations based on the reindeer management law. Like other industries where the natural basis limits the scope of the activities, a person cannot have a higher reindeer figure and a higher output than the grazing basis can withstand. Regardless of technical innovations and other aids, this is something that needs to be taken into account. The Labour Party has recorded that the negative development, especially in Finnmark, is still present and has also increased in scope. The working party will stress that this must be followed up in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Act of Purchasing. The working party also agrees that an upper reindeer number should be set for each district, in order to determine the reindeer number for each holding at a later stage, in order to provide a more ecological and economic nourishment. The Water Management Development Fund shall be used for development and investment in the industry. The majority of the Committee has pointed out that the Fund should also be an important institution in order to contribute to a greater focus on the development of special products by industry. The working party assumes that the parties themselves must agree on this. In all the reindeer areas, the industry is struggling with major predatory losses and resulting in production failure. It is therefore necessary to initiate preventive measures. The Labour Party believes that the negative focus that has been corrected, inter alia: against the cleanness of Finnmark and Troms, not profiting the nourishment. That is why we support the measures adopted in the grubbing-up agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2905	First, I want to take the opportunity to give tribute to the case rapporteur, because year after year the committee has described the problem, that we have far too many clean in relation to the grazing basis, etc., but in practice nothing has happened to bring the reindeer industry forward into the pact with the resource base. However, the rapporteur has managed to bring together the Committee on very important formulations, so that I am optimistic – that the necessary leadership can now be put in place, and that the Department will follow up the requirements imposed by the Stortinge on this matter, so that we can get better. On behalf of the Progress Party, I will address some elements. We are far from the reindeer management agreement and the planned economic system, as it turns out it is not working. Right? The first is to inject a lot of capital — a little like agriculture — into the reindeer industry. It was done a few years ago, so that the youth went into and settled, and then it got this situation with too many clean compared to the grazing grounds. And then, in part, the same politicians have to come up with new subsidies and support schemes, early slaughter subsidies, etc. to try to solve the problems they themselves face. We are still being proved that the plan economy of the reindeer industry and the agricultural industry is not working, so why should we continue with systems that are not working when we can try alternatives that have better prospects for the future? I would also ask myself: if a company had damaged the environment as much as the reindeer industry does, the authorities would probably have been out much earlier. Researchers have shown that there is a deserting of Finnmarks, with irreversible damage for decades, and that the damage is much greater than what we see at the nickel mills. So here it's important now that the government follows up the constraints and the comments that come from the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2914	We also support that by setting top rein for each district. I think this is a right grip, but it depends on what process is being carried on. It's also very exciting to see what the law selection comes up. It will be very crucial. But I want to take up one thing that I think might be worth considering further. That is the framework for the negotiations. I think you might want to consider whether the reindeer negotiations should take place in the Sameting, you might be able to use the new assembly building. It has something to do with the context and the frame around it. This is a multicultural context. You have to operate in two languages, and I hope that you will also succeed in negotiating where you use both languages in full and have full interpretation. I think it's the right way to go to get into the necessary dialogue with the industry that you need. I also think it is important that the whole thing is more actively involved, despite the fact that we in the committee have now made a decision with which I know that the whole thing is not satisfied. But there may be a lot of reasons – there are many cross-cutting interests here. I also believe that it is important for women to be included in the negotiating delegation. I think you have to have even more strength on this with women's questions. Finally, I would like to add that the emphasis here also needs to be on the future. I think that's absolutely necessary to have a chance to secure a material basis for the reindeer families in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2925	The premiums for reindeer management policy are based on St.meld. No 28 for 1991-92, Sustainable reindeer management, and the treatment of the Storting at the time of notification through Innst. S. No 167 for 1991-92. When the Stortinge dealt with this in 1992, it was outlined that sustainable reindeer management should be based on three points – ecological sustainability as one, economic sustainability as the second, and cultural sustainability as the third. This is commented on in St.prp. No 65 for 1999-2000, which states that the three objectives are interlinked, that ecological sustainability provides a basis for economic sustainability, and that together it provides ecological and economic sustainability with the opportunity to develop cultural sustainability. This sounds like the advertisement for Kinderegg: three wishes at once. In the case of Children's Eggs, it's going to jump. This isn't going to happen. That's exactly what's happening today, that ecological sustainability on the Finnmark range at all does not provide any economic sustainability. Moreover, the economic sustainability that is currently totally lacking provides no opportunity for cultural development related to reindeer management over time, so that it is already in the beginning of St.prp. No 65 gives a presentation that has little or nothing to do with the world of reality today. When you go back to descriptions of Finnmarkswirdda, for example in the series «Norwegian mountain pastures», which in 1965 presented a comprehensive overview of vegetation and grazing conditions for reindeer in Finnmark, it is interesting to see the description that the low heaths have a thickness of 10-15 cm and with «small reindeer as ski tracks in low mat». The narrow ski tracks in the low mat were striped animals from Finland that came over. Otherwise, it was close to low. In 1992, NORUT IT published the report «Finnmarkswiss vegetation mapping – vegetation types, low pastures and changes in low-yielded pasture districts 30 and 31, Finnmarkswissda». It was based on satellite data from 1973, 1980 and 1987-88. What we found out from this data was that in 1973 there was an intact low cover equal to 85 pst. of vastness. In 1980 the figure was reduced to 68.1 pst, and in 1987-88 the corresponding figures were down to 15.1 pst. In 1996, a review was carried out showing that only 7-8 pst. of the total area of the Finnmark area was now intact. At the beginning of the period studied, one found low over the whole range. In 1996, the situation was so serious that half the width was low. So we were faced with an ecological disaster of enormous dimensions, which, of course, if we compare it with Puttjern, is so large that the comparison is totally limping. What is also limping is the total lack of attention given to the ecological disaster. And it's clear that the question cannot be dealt with as one deals with issues of meeting three wishes at once. It cannot be said that both cultural development and ecological sustainability must be maintained and economic sustainability must be maintained. In fact, you have to start thinking about what kind of choices you're going to make. And the perfectly obvious choice of roads related to Finnmark's territory now is to preserve the ecology. There's no ecological sustainability on Finnmark's territory anymore, so it's just a matter of time before the reindeer dies out of itself with the kind of subsidy schemes that you have today, and which you rightly say you should do something in relation to this year, but which neither the department nor the committee goes into in any convincing way, so that the other things will die of themselves. Purgatory will die out, cultural opportunities associated with it will die out, and that means that the ecological perspective in a completely different way from today's, so that at least nature can be preserved and a total desertification of the whole range can be prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2936	As the representative, Mr Ballo, pointed out, it is a primary objective of the reindeer management policy to facilitate a reindeer management that is ecologically, economically and culturally sustainable – and I would also like to add that it must be well-managed in animal welfare. For parts of the reindeer pastures, the image is quite gloomy now. I am thinking in particular of the situation in the interior of Finnmark. Systematic weight records of the pure, monitoring of the low pastures using satellite images and field studies leave no doubt that the grazing situation is dramatic. From an ecological point of view, the problem is simple. It's too much pure in relation to the grazing grounds. On the industry side, the situation is widely recognised. Over the years, the State and the Norwegian Reindrijtssamer Landsförbund have agreed on the implementation of different strategies for renumbering. However, it is difficult to put the measures into practice. As is known, the agreement of last year provides for voluntary adaptation in the so-called action districts. If this did not occur, the authorities in Phase 2 should, i.e.: from the coming season of slaughter, carry out the necessary reduction in the number of restockings based on the provisions of the Reef Act. When we came to this year's negotiations, it turned out that the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbund would no longer be involved in this, which led to the end of the negotiations. However, the government considered it important to reach an agreement. As a result, all matters relating to reindeer regulation based on the Reindeer Operations Act were withdrawn from the agreement. This year’s reindeer management agreement is thus a purely economic framework agreement, which has given greater emphasis to production optimisation and income development and, to a lesser extent, measures to adjust the reindeer figures. This, of course, does not mean that the scale adjustment has become less important on the part of the authorities. The difference is that this is now to be followed up on an independent basis by the bodies responsible for this in accordance with the provisions of the Redeployment Act. I want to follow closely the further work here and I am pleased that the Committee so clearly calls for action and results. So a little about the agreement itself: the agreement has an increased framework of 80 million. NOK 88 million. kr. Much of this goes to Rein driften’s Development Fund, which includes: will allow for a greater focus on development and investment in industry. It is important to put in place a policy that specifically targets women in reindeer management. Women have traditionally had a strong position in the industry. This has been weakened by technological and economic developments. In this year's agreement, the spouse allowance for production grants has increased from NOK 25 000 to NOK 50000. I would like to mention in the extension of this also the important challenge of increasing the value creation of reindeer farms. Purification has today evolved into essentially meat production. However, the aim of the industry must be to maximise the economic yield of the flock within the given ecological framework. I would particularly like to highlight the niche production of milk, which, in combination with tourism, can also represent an important contribution to the reindeer economy. This can give opportunities, not least for women. Purification is generally subject to pressure from many teams. Therefore, clean-up operations must be made more robust and thus better able to live with a pressure from the outside world. It is important that an administration that works professionally and that has the trust of the practitioners and other authorities. The Norwegian Institute of Urban and Regional Research is now carrying out an evaluation of Rein driftsmanagementen, and the report will be available in the near future. I will follow the further processes carefully here as well. If Stortinget doesn't last too long, the Council of State will soon take a plane to the Norwegian Rein driftssamers Landsförbunder and take on this work at once tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2964	Then we'll see if we can finish relatively quickly, so the Council of State can achieve this. Several have not asked for the floor for Question No 16. [[See page 3787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2980	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3787]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e2993	Then we're ready for voting. The President will give instructions along the way in relation to what she has understood has been the recommendations of the various parties. The President thinks it will hold, but it depends on listening carefully to what is being said, and following the leader of his group in relation to what matters, so that we get through this in the best possible way at this time of day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3002	A total of 26 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-4, from Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party – during the debate made it clear that the Socialist Left Party should be co-rapporteur for proposal No. 3proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party proposals No. 7 and 8, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 9-13, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposals No. 14 and 15, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposals No. 16 and 17, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Socialist Left, Nos 18 and 19, by Lodve Solholm on behalf of the Party for Progress, No. 20 and 21, by Erna Solberg, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 22 and 23, by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 24-26, from Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The vote is first on the minority proposals and then on the setting. Ivar Østberg has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3040	I would like to ask that the proposals No. 10 and 12 are converted into a transmission proposal, and make it clear that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party will vote against the VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3045	Proposals Nos. In the course of the debate, 10, 12 and 26 have been converted into transmission proposals. Proposal No. 10, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, in amended form, reads: ‘It is recommended that the Government adjust the North Norway grant for 2001.’;» Proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, reads in amended form: «It is recommended that the Government examine the possibility of financing the capital grant and the regional grant as its own schemes without any contribution from the population grant for all municipalities.» Proposal No. 26, from the Socialist Left Party, says in amended form: ‘It is recommended that the Government assess the need for necessary adjustments to the scope and volume of the regional grant in the context of the dwindling of the exceptional discretion.’;» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Let's move on. There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to increase the rates of grants for the Norwegian training of adult immigrants, so that all municipal expenditure related to education is covered by the State grant.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3082	I did not get the vote and would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3087	Then the figures are corrected to 76 votes against and 22 votes in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 25, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The real growth in the free income of the municipal sector from 2000 to 2001 shall be 4 billion. SEK in addition to the Government’s proposal.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3100	The proposals are then put to the vote. 22 and 23, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The State asks the Government to implement a debt restructuring scheme for municipalities and counties in the 2001 budget.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: «The breakdown premium shall be granted for 5 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3120	I'm sorry that the oxygen intake in my head is so low that I voted in the wrong vote for proposal No. Twenty-two and twenty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3125	Then the figures are corrected to 87 votes against and 12 votes in favour of the proposals of the Central Party. The President must ask that you be extremely aware of what is now happening. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 20, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The following grants are included in the income system: Chapter. 705 Item 60 Recruitment, etc. by Health Care Professional Cape. 705 entry 61 Tournament service, secondary education, etc. Cape. 705 item 62 Business internal training, etc..»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3152	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to draw up a technical basis for the incorporation/further development of criteria for both municipalities and counties for inclusion in the income system from 2002». The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3160	The Socialist Left will also vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3174	The proposals are then put to the vote. 18 and 19, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to convert the income system for hospitals and secondary schools into a system where the money follows the patient/student’. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to include 2000 million. crowns of the 2001 discretionary grant into the ordinary citizen’s grant.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3192	The proposals are then put to the vote. 16 and 17, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to intensify its efforts to renew equipment in Norwegian hospitals by, for example, increasing the State share of investment expenditure.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Top government funding is introduced for particularly resource-intensive users of municipal services. The scheme shall assume a fixed municipal equity ratio of SEK 600 000 and a State funding of 100 pst. by municipal expenditure in addition.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3212	The proposals are then put to the vote. 14 and 15, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The real growth in the total income of the local government sector from 2000 to 2001 shall be 5 billion. crowns.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The following grants are maintained as the eartag: Cape. 322 item 60Communal cultural tasksChapter. 1463 entry 63LA 21 and sustainable urban and urban development’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3247	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9, 11 and 13, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a compensation scheme that captures the need for increased car diesel fee compensation that refers to the volume increase of the collective offer during the financial year’.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to transfer 30 million. kronor of the ordinary discretionary grant from 2001 to the Statens Naturskadfond for the purpose of tailoring to local authorities.’ 13 reads:‘The following proposals are maintained as eartags: Cape. 324 item 60Scene art in the counties 326 post 60Mobile library service and library facilities’» The President will draw attention to a correction in proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox The introduction «Next proposals» shall be addressed to «Next grants».
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3289	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to instruct the county councillors to recommend that no new municipalities apply tax for the implementation of property tax until the principles of new housing taxing have been completed in Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The following grants are included in the income system: Chapter. 221 post 67 Supplements to music and cultural schoolsCap. Item 234 Item 60 Grants for the dissemination of reform apprenticesChapter. 610 item 60 Contributions to prevention and competence raising measuresChapter. 1472 item 60 Municipal nature management»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3323	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5, from Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap. 221 item 66 Compensation of salary and clay school training is included in the income system from the 2000/01 school year.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3337	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from Christian People's Party, Right and Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for corrections to be made to the income equalisation, which involves a step-by-step mechanism in which the balancing gradually decreases when the revenue reaches 100 pst. by the average.’» Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3353	Proposals Nos. 1, 2 and 4, from the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, are taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Chap. Item 841 60 Grants to family protection offices are maintained as earmarked grants.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to prepare a plan to extend and extend the older reform in order to implement its plans.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Communes of Arendal, Fredrikstad, Hamar and Larvik shall be compensated by the ordinary means of discretion for the loss of basic grants for 3 years.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3379	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The population contribution shall be based on the population and population composition per. 1 October of the previous year.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3392	We are now going to vote over the vote, and here the President will inform us about who has the vote, so that the representatives will have to find out whether they belong to the group that has the vote or those that are not mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3403	Here is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. Right will support this subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3420	Here the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Central Party have the position, and the Workers' Party has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3452	Here the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party have the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3469	This is where the Working Party and the Right configuration will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3486	Here is the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3511	The vote will take place on a proposal from the representative, Lodve Solholm, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 5 June 2000: ‘The government is asking for further work to be done on the conversion of the accounting principle for local government accounts towards a profit and loss-oriented accounting and budgetary management. Further work should also be carried out in some municipalities with the conversion of accounting principles.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3527	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose the inclusion of disability in the second paragraph of Section 55 A of the Working Environment Act by the end of 2000.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3541	Case No. 5 is the proposal by the representative of the Grand Duchy of Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 5 June 2000. The representative has requested that this proposal be transformed into a transmission proposal. The proposal shall then read as follows: «It is recommended that the Government amend the Regulation of 30 September 1993 on recovery aid so as to cover expenditure on school books and school supplies relating to approved resettlement schemes even if they exceed the current annual rate of the State Loan Fund for Education.» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3554	There is a vote on the proposal by the representative Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, sent from the Odelstinget meeting on 5 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the social security rates to cover child-care expenditure [[Price support code]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3569	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Stensaker, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘There is no levy on the carriage of passengers by road on the railway system infrastructure.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3593	Proposal No. 3, from the right, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to lease the Gardermoban infrastructure to the Flytoget AS’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3606	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to transfer the shares of Flytoget AS to the Ministry of Economic Affairs’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision authorises the Government to privatise the Flytog AS as soon as it becomes economically advantageous.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3819	The party of progress has announced that they want to vote against I and III, and that is why they vote against these Roman numbers first.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3889	The party of progress, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3919	During the debate, Mr Nistad presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3922	I will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3929	Even against the setting? So, both against the proposal and against the vote? Then we have to split the voting. There is a vote on the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which reads as follows: ‘1. The tolling company A/S Mountain Line shall not be allowed to increase toll tariffs.2. The tolling company A/S Mountain Line shall be allowed to use the full profit in the bombing of road projects under Oslopacket 1.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3946	I have voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e3953	That means that Inger Lise Husøy voted in favour and would have voted against? In this way, the proposal by the Progress Party was rejected by 83 votes to 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e4299	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount of the public money is increased by NOK 2870 to NOK 49 820 with effect from 1 May 2000. The State budget for 2000 is amended as follows: Chapter.ObjectivesCrones660400budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budges, 000budgets,500, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 100, 100,500budgets from 7 000budgets from 7 000budgets from 7 000budgets from 7 000budgets, 7 000budgets, from 7 000 Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5301	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, from Randi Karlstrøm on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left Drafts No. 4-7, by Mr Hedstrom on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats 8 and 9, by Ansgar Gabrielsen, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 10, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to enter into new negotiations with the agricultural organisations in order to reach an agreement on settlement in accordance with the following guidelines: The general scheme is being implemented to strengthen small and medium-sized applications. The operating grants are being converted into general ecologisation. Subsidies for land, landscape and environmental grants are strengthened. Subsidies to the quantity produced are reduced; an upper ceiling is introduced for transfers to each use. A separate income deduction is not introduced for the taxation of agricultural incomes Environmental taxes on spraying and fertilizers are increased and revenue is returned to the use of organic production and marketing.The gross feed supplement for organic farming is maintained and increased from the day of the year.The budget is kept within the same overall economic framework as the Government’s proposal.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5350	The proposals are then put to the vote. 8 and 9, from the right. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The net deduction from the agricultural subsidy schemes is raised to NOK 15 000.’; Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘Chap. 1150For the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc.:50Fund provisions, reduced by NOK 150000000 from NOK 1471 560000 to NOK 1321 560000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5395	Proposals Nos. 4, 5, 6 and 7, from the Advance Party, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘Proposals for a new agricultural agreement are not accepted.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘Existing arrangements with the agricultural agreement shall be repealed.’; Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for agricultural subsidies and other State financial measures in respect of agriculture in the ordinary State budget without prior negotiations.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The financial envelope empowers the Government to allocate agricultural subsidies for the remainder of the current financial year with a framework of 2 500 million. krona lower than the approved budget capped. 1150 For the implementation of the agricultural agreement.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5424	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1, 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5427	The Socialist Left will vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5434	Then we split the voting, and we start with the proposals No. 1 and 3. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government requests the opening of new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and the submission of offers in accordance with the Intrinsic assumptions of the Storting. S. No 167 [[1999 - 2000]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the submission by the Government of an investigation into an auction mechanism for MUL imports at the latest in the context of the 2001 government budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e5455	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left, is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘For dairy co-farms, a limit of 4 participants per year shall be introduced. co-farming and an upper limit on the milk quota per year. co-operation of 350 000 litres.’» The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e6056	The Progress Party has announced that it will vote against I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-15-2.ana.ud1240e6096	There is no record.
