ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23-lower.ana.ud2606e38	The Municipal Committee has examined Ot.prp. No 67 for 1999-2000, which sets out the coordination work of the authorities in the field of health, environment and safety. As part of the coordination work carried out by the authorities in the HMS area, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs promotes several proposals for amendments to a total of eight different laws, all of which concern the area of health, environment and safety. In its position, the Committee is essentially following up the Ministry's many proposals for amendments to these eight HMS laws. The eight HMS laws in question are the Electricity Regulatory Act, the Civil Protection Act, the Fire Hazard Act, the Explosive Act, the Product Control Act, the Labour Environment Act, the Pollution Act and the Fire Protection Act. In addition to purely technical amendments, some home extensions have also been proposed in the field of the Civil Protection Act, the Electrical Protection Act, the Fire Protection Act and the Fire Safety Act, while the proposed technical amendments and simplifications are largely only proposed in the case of the Explosives Act, the Product Control Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Pollution Act. The amendments proposed are of a certain extent, but the work of the Committee has been relatively simple, as the content of the proposal has always been widely agreed. It is also a unanimous committee that is behind the setting here today. However, the Committee has found grounds to depart somewhat from the Ministry's proposals in the field of the Working Environment Act, since the Committee does not agree with the Ministry's proposal to remove the provisions of the Working Environment Act on access to justice, the time limit for appeal, and that impositions should always be made in writing. Although this content is legally respected in the administrative law, the Committee justifies its view that the labour environment law, which is a very central law for all enterprises in the country, should be as informative and precise as possible for the many who have to deal with this comprehensive law on a daily basis. In this way, the law should not contain too many complementary references to other laws, such as the Administrative Act. Furthermore, the Committee notes that it is known that the internal control reform, which entered into force on 1 January 1992, has taken longer to implement than initially assumed. In 1999, i.e. seven years after the introduction of the internal control reform, there were 50 pst. of the establishments in Norway introduced systematic HMS work, while 86 pst. such work was being carried out by the establishments. The Committee expresses concern that the introduction of internal controls by the HMS work system has taken a little longer than expected. However, the Committee has no doubt that internal control as a principle for the HMS work in the establishments has come to be and that work on introducing a systematic HMS work in all establishments will continue with sufficient strength. The aim is for all establishments to have an internal control system in place to maximise the safety and security of any establishment employing workers in that country. The Committee considers that the proposed changes could help to facilitate the management and implementation of a systematic HMS work by smaller enterprises, so that the activities which are still involved in this work will also have a somewhat simpler and more coordinated regulatory approach in the future. Of course, the scope for more effective control activities of supervisory bodies is also an important aspect to which the Committee attaches importance through these legislative changes. The Committee also points out in its comments that the HMS work in both the labour market and society as a whole has and will have the highest priority. The notes in this area must be interpreted as a very clear signal that failure or emergency is in no way acceptable in the prevention and preparedness work in order to limit or avoid damage in areas such as health, environment and safety in the workplace, and in so far as society is concerned. It is therefore necessary to entrust supervisory bodies, businesses and individuals in this country with the task of taking work in health, the environment and safety in all areas of society very seriously and seriously. The Committee also welcomes the introduction of a new regulatory framework in the Fire Protection Act to enable the owner of road tunnels to impose their own fire and accident preparedness, or that the owner himself is financially responsible for upgrading the local fire service in the municipality in which the tunnel is actually located, so that the local fire service is able to handle any tunnel fire in a highly appropriate manner. In conclusion, as the rapporteur-in-Office, I will only be able to express hope and believe that the content of the position that the Committee is now unanimously behind will prove to be a useful contribution and an effective instrument in the efforts to promote health, environmental and safety work in key areas of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23-lower.ana.ud2606e66	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23-lower.ana.ud2606e74	The Odelsting is supposed to wrestle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23-lower.ana.ud2606e917	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-23-lower.ana.ud2606e926	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
