ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e46	The President will make suggestions that a seat president of Odelstinget's meeting is elected today – and sees it as agreed. The President is asking for a proposal from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e51	I suggest Johan J. Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e56	Johan J. Jakobsen is the vice president. – Other suggestions are not in advance, and Johan J. Jakobsen is in agreement with the power of the President-in-Office of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e68	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there will be no replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e77	The Government of Bondevik laid down in Ot.prp. No 97 for 1998-99 a number of proposals for changes to the Competition Act, but it was also clarified that proposals for further changes would be made later in a major legislative revision. The Committee has therefore only mentioned and examined the changes considered to be of a principle nature. It is a large majority in the Committee that supports the Government's proposals for changes, here we can say that the old government parties and the new government party are in agreement with the Swedish Government. The Progress Party and the Right also join the Committee in most of the amendments, in order to achieve a unanimous committee. However, the Progress Party has promoted some amendments, such as: in the case of establishing the basis for intervention against corporate servers, where the Progress Party is initially somewhat skeptical. In this case, the Procedural Party and the Right have also referred to the so-called appeal procedure. Without further comment, the Committee supports the proposal for a new Section 1-7 as this only brings the wording into line with the obligations of Norway under the EEA Agreement. There is also a large majority in the Committee in favour of the Government's proposals concerning the second and fourth paragraphs of Section 3-1, which are to make the prohibition of the fixing and impact of prices on suppliers of goods and services equivalent. However, the Progress Party considers that the need for changes here is little documented and believes that an impact assessment and needs analysis should be provided before its adoption. It is a unanimous committee that considers that a framework should be established for the supervision of competition to adopt a temporary ban on the implementation of business services. In this context, it is important that the supervision should make critical assessments of the need for individual action before the use of the home. A unanimous committee clarifies that such cases are dealt with quickly and that the home is not used unnecessarily. The Party of Progress and the Right draws attention to the fact that time-limits for proceedings have already been established in the Competition Authority. These lots see that due to the risk of imposing unnecessary costs on the company and any loss of positive synergies, strict deadlines should be introduced. The Progress Party goes a little further here and proposes in this context that matters of this nature should be dealt with and resolved within three months. The Committee is initially sceptical about the establishment of a basis for the provision of information subject to professional secrecy to foreign competition authorities. There is clearly a danger here that information of a more secret nature will end up on the wrong hands. On the other hand, such an authorisation will also lead to a broader contact network for Norwegian enterprises abroad. Wide and close cooperation between competition authorities in the various countries, with the possibility of exchanging information of common interest, may be a prerequisite for the competitiveness of Norwegian business in the future internationalisation. The Committee assumes, of course, that more stringent requirements are laid down here for the receipt of such information and that systems or quality assurance systems are in place to ensure the proper processing of this type of information. With regard to the Government’s assessment of the subsequent imposition of an authorisation to oblige acquirers to introduce internal control, the Progress Party would point out that this would lead to additional costs for the companies through increased red tape. In particular, SMEs will feel that way. Here I would like to remind you of the previous government parties' motto on a simpler Norway and a smaller form field. I would therefore already like to signal great scepticism from the Progress Party, and that the party will most likely oppose the introduction of such a mandate. In this context, the Progress Party has also chosen to point to the unfortunate complaint mechanism that exists between the State and the Competition Authority. We have previously promoted a Document No. Eight proposals with a view to ensuring that the decisions of supervision cannot be appealed to the Ministry and the King. The last example of this was the failure of the Ministry of Administration to comply with the Competition Authority’s decision regarding the book business agreement. It is now important to look closely at the developments this creates in the governance of Norwegian society, particularly with regard to the mix of management and business interests. We hope that it will be possible to create a majority for our proposal in this Chamber today, so that the new Council of State can take this into account in its signalled modernisation process in the public sector. I am promoting the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e109	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e112	I note with satisfaction that the proposals for amendments to the Competition Act promoted by the previous government have been endorsed by a broad majority in Odelstinget. The Progress Party and the Right have, in their own comments, expressed disagreements on some points and also put forward proposals. Mr. Per Sandberg has explained this in detail, and I will not go into it specifically, just make a few comments. Pending a broader and more comprehensive review of competition policy, the proposals for changes promoted by the Government at this time were of a more limited technical nature and some were identified as necessary for the implementation of an effective competition policy. The main point was the proposal to provide a basis for intervention against corporate services in order to temporarily prohibit such acquisitions from being carried out while the Competition Authority is carrying out an assessment of the acquisition. The Progress Party proposes to legislate for a period of three months for the examination of the Competition Authority. We cannot see, however, that there is a need to limit the time limit for the provisional decision, because the time limit for intervention under the main provisions of Sections 3 to 11 is limited to six months after the final agreement on company services has been concluded. Accordingly, an interim decision is already time-limited within that framework. In addition, it is underlined in the proposal that supervision will suspend a provisional decision as soon as it finds that it will not intervene against the business server. Another proposal is to change the wording of sections 3 to 1 so that the prohibition of the establishment or influence of, among other things. prices, margins and discounts shall include both supplies of goods and services. The proposal seems so obvious at a time when borders between goods and services are becoming increasingly difficult to draw, that we cannot see the need for the broad documentation that the Progress Party wants through its proposal. Then the Progress Party and the Right take up previous views on the appeal in the vote. This has been debated in the past, and we see no need to re-examine a discussion about this here. And, as I said, there is a broad review of competition policy and the law that I believe the new government will also implement as the work takes place within the European Union in this area. We're just referring to the setting and our comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e125	I would like to refer to the notified changes to the laws that the Ministry says will come in 2002, and therefore I would like to focus my attention on the complaint. It is correct, as the representative Lånker just said, that this has been discussed before. When we find reason to take it up again, it's because the previous government in the first proposition they're dealing with, warned that there were a lot of reasons that talked about changing the complaint. So far, nothing has happened, and we want to show that there has been an ongoing debate on whether it is right that the Department is the Board of Appeal. We have also noticed that in 1997 the OECD stated in its country report on Norway that Norway should assess its complaints under the Competition Act. In connection with the treatment of Innst. O. No 49 for 1997-1998, the Ministry considered that there were several reasons for discussing the complaint mechanism under competition law. I would also like to refer to the proposals made by the Norman Group and the proposals made in NOU 1991: 27. Among other things, there were: said: ‘... there is a risk that a sectoral authority, which is responsible for both competition considerations and other considerations, will place disproportionate emphasis on the other considerations.’;» The Norman Group further recommended the establishment of a distinction between cases where access to justice should allow for a political balance between competition and other considerations and cases where access to justice should only address administrative legal requirements. The right then asked for further work to be done on different models to ensure that you have an appeal body independent of the department. The right would stress the importance of drawing up rules to ensure that policy-making authorities participate as much as possible directly in individual cases. We believe that the responsibility of the political authorities for competition policy should be primarily borne out by the framework laid down by the law, through the annual budgetary procedure and the regulations drawn up by the Government. There is no doubt that competition is often damaged by the handling of complaints at political level, and that at least the review procedure should have been added to an independent complaint subject. In our opinion, it is unfortunate that the Ministry is the Board of Appeal in relation to the Competition Authority's decision. We believe it is important to draw up rules to ensure that policy-making authorities participate as much as possible directly in the handling of individual cases. The responsibility of the political authorities for competition policy should, as has been said before, be governed primarily by law, regulation and budgetary procedure. Political transformation of the decisions of the Competition Surveillance Authority will, as a general rule, help to weaken competition and thus affect consumers. An example of this is the Ministry’s reorganization of the Competition Authority’s decision regarding the book industry agreement, which was also referred to by the Sandberg representative, where price competition in school books was prevented — a theme that many in this Chamber have been concerned with but few have been willing to do something concrete about. The right refers to Section 28 of the Administrative Act, which provides for the two-way handling of individual decisions, and stresses the importance of the principle of two-way management in order to ensure the proper handling of individual cases. I would therefore like to raise the following proposals on behalf of the Right: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the appeal procedure under the Competition Act by setting up an independent review body.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e161	The representative of Trond Helleland has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e164	I thought I would shut up in this matter, but the civil parties' constant appeal system under the Competition Act made me take the floor. Let me first talk about a couple of other things. Several were concerned with this with deadlines, which is the matter we probably spent the most time on when it concerned committee treatment. Now we have to say that we are very satisfied with the clarifications that have come into the position, and are confident that the social economy will be well-managed with the leaders that are now there. The representative of the Party for Advancement was concerned with this with internal control and the grounds for imposition, and is already rejecting possible party support for that proposal if it does. Some of the purpose of that proposal was to make it easier for businesses, so that they are constantly running out of control and checking from the Competition Authority, but that a safety and security can initially be established in order to comply with the Competition Act. And I'm going to think that most companies will also see it as an advantage to have this internal control introduced. When it comes to appeals, the book business agreement is a very good example. I think it will be easy for politicians to say that only the Competition Act applies here. Half the point that we have this appeal system is that these are political decisions, where, as politicians, we are dependent on taking a much more comprehensive responsibility for the decisions taken than the Competition Authority is supposed to take. Competition supervision should do its job in relation to competition law and competition policy, it is the responsibility of politicians to take a more comprehensive approach to these issues. This also makes it very strange when the Right is willing to have an independent complaint subject, when there are actually political decisions to be taken. The fact that the department's decision is to be transferred to independent complainants is not what we in the Workers' Party imagine in this matter. On the contrary, we consider it to be a weakening of the position of the Competition Authority, since the Competition Authority can no longer only focus on competition policy and the Competition Act, as it is today, but has to make far more comprehensive and comprehensive assessments and base them on the decisions they make. There is a weakening of policy-makers' ability to intervene retrospectively and to make these overall assessments. The Competition Authority will do the job they have done, and will continue to do so, and we will have politicians take responsibility for the more comprehensive and overall assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e175	I just want to briefly refer to the setting and the central party's views as they appear there. The reason I asked for the floor was also linked to the unilateral emphasis on competition, as if competition were a general, central goal in all contexts. I react negatively to it, and believe that we should have healthy competition, and focus on obtaining many conditions to bring about healthy competition. But if you're not going to have the opportunity to have comprehensive political assessments and political judgement, we're on the wrong track. And when all the speakers before me – especially the first two, the case rapporteur and the representative from the Right – took up the book business agreement, it is, in my view, a clear example of the importance of the use of anti-competitive measures to ensure other policy objectives, such as equal price and access to the offer across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e182	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e185	It is probably true that there are slightly different opinions on how to interpret the concept of competition, and I have to disagree with the representative Lahnstein when she tries to reduce competition to one of many elements. Competition is important – at least for the Right – in order to achieve a better offer for consumers, a better offer in the districts, etc. etc. With regard to the book business agreement, we're not going to have a new debate on it, but what's strange about that is that the only element of the book business agreement that was maintained was the school books. The cultural policy justification for disseminating fiction to the entire country was lost, because the book business agreement was abolished for everything except school books. The only argument for the book business agreement was just to ensure that district bookstores would have the same offer as other bookstores, and that it would be equal to the price. The reality is that today the Internet is invented, and there is the possibility of buying books, records, etc. At least in Norway, one of the world’s largest bookshops is now available via the Internet. I hope that the new Council of State, which has opened up freshly, will also assess these considerations when the Competition Act is to be revised – I think it is time. So to the representative Alstad, who could not understand the need for an independent complaint subject. No, it just proves our point, that there should be some kind of political review of the Competition Act! And in my speech, I strongly stressed that the framework for competition policy, and also the framework for other policies, should be defined by law, regulation and budgetary procedure. It is obvious here that a desire to continue with a system where a competition law is clear and good, but which can still be tested politically because it is precisely in that sector that it is not appropriate to have competition. I feel that it gives no particularly reliable impression. I also feel that it is a problem that it is often the same department that is going to sit and deal with matters, which then somehow violates the Competition Act. It helps to weaken the Competition Authority, and I hope that there is agreement in this Chamber that we need strong competition supervision that has impact. That is why I ask, when one is going to review this – if we do not get through today – that it is assessed to have a more independent complaint procedure that makes it impossible for one to ask questions about the political review, which obviously Alstad wants to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e198	Yes, the differences are expressed here, in conclusion, in the speeches by the representative of Greece. So the Labour Party and Alstad have no intention or desire to remove the review that exists today. And that's exactly what's a little alarming, because the representative of Greece came up with a whole series of signals that have come in the direction of wanting to change this complaint. In addition, I can also mention that Olav Kolstad at the Centre for European Law at the University of Oslo expressed the same thing. Helge Stemshaug, the legal director of the Competition Authority, also states the same thing. So it's just the working party that kind of sticks to it by allowing it to go on. And that's what the policy is – the working party wants a political review to use its policy to get through, no matter what. Then I would also like to say something about what Alstad said about internal control. We've just kind of said what's been expressed in business. Business life is very skeptical, unlike the signals that Alstad gave here from the pulpit – he believes that business is open and will accept even more bureaucracy and even more forms. They make clear in their hearing opinions that they are afraid and sceptical of introducing such internal controls. Because if NHO and LO give their consent to this, it does not affect the 90 pst. small and medium-sized enterprises that are struggling with red tape and the tasks that they are constantly taking away. They are the ones who are having problems with the introduction of new forms and new laws and regulations. Back to that with the appeal procedure. It is not necessarily necessary to establish an independent appeal body. You can also go in different directions. This could be done, for example, by: be to separate the companies in which the State holds shares. Another method is to sell all the shares, which the Progress Party wants, and to increase them in accordance with the Share Act. Another option is to separate the administrator of state ownership from the department and the State Council that has regulatory responsibility in this area. But the point is at least to take the signals that are now coming from all sides that this complaint mechanism is not healthy for competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e207	I'm just going to comment briefly on two things – the one is this with complaint. It is now that competition is an instrument to serve the interests of consumers. However, in some contexts there may be other things in society that are of greater importance to the interests of the consumer than exactly competition. Therefore, we must not look at the role of Competition Surveillance in relation to consumer protection and to help facilitate the best possible conditions for consumers as absolute. However, when we are now considering the complaints in the future, there are a number of considerations that need to be taken into account, including: this: Is it true that the department which has the authority to instruct the Competition Authority in many ways is the appropriate body to deal with the complaints? That is why we must take all the elements involved in this debate as a whole up to an overall assessment when drawing our conclusions. But I want to stress that in this process we do not have to be so market-oriented that we do not see that there are some other societal considerations that need to be taken into account. So pretty short for this with corporate server intervention. It is clear that there is a far-reaching and serious interference with business. And in the case of such an instrument, it is clear that when the Competition Authority considers it necessary for the sake of the consumer, for reasons of free competition and in order to avoid private monopolies, the matter must be dealt with promptly. I do not believe that there are any deadlines other than those set out in the general provisions, but it is quite clear that the Competition Authority will do what they can to deal with the matter as quickly as possible, precisely in the interests of the business concerned. I don't think you should have to worry about that in particular. So finally this with a possible future internal control order. If one is to have an ambition to steer the policy through better internal control, it must be in the interests of the business community and in the interests of the individual consumer. We have no ambitions to introduce large, heavy legislation to impose unnecessary workload on business, but we have ambitions to facilitate the development of industry and the development of rules to make the most of decisions in general local terms. It also applies to the individual enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e218	It is when one hears the concept of holistic thinking, social considerations and the need to take greater overall considerations into account and base the further policy, that there is every reason to doubt where you really want to. It is quite obvious that when one hears representatives from the Workers' Party and the Centre who clearly express concepts of political governance, the pace will accelerate further in relation to the many grey areas we have in this area in today's situation, which is characterised by buying-in, by mergers and fewer actors, resulting in the continuing drift and review of the status of the Competition Surveillance Authority department and in many ways has contributed to the recent undermining of the status of this important supervision. It shouldn't go on like that much longer. And when I hear the speeches from those who want to re-grow the so-called whole political, community-oriented way of thinking, I think we should be happy and appreciate that, after all, we have some agreements, international ones, which give us relatively clear relationships to navigate by. My advice to the new Council of State is that he is contributing precisely to this situation, for the sake of consumers, in the many areas where we see fewer actors. In some areas, especially in transport, finance and not least in the agricultural sector, we also get private monopolies – and that is far from anything better than public monopolies – which have a market dominance that puts customers at risk, to consumers. So my advice to the new government council is that he's taking hold of these things, that he's helping to re-establish the status of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e227	I understood enough what I did when I tried to tell the market librarians in the Right and the Advance Party that competition is not always the only gratifying, but that sometimes it can also be other factors that should be emphasised. I record that they did not understand it this time either, but I promise to keep doing so. Wholeness, social interests and social economy record I'm saying right-wing is having problems, but I'm going to promise that the Workers' Party won't have any problems with those words either in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e232	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 391]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e246	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches by the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies after the posts by members of the Government. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e257	The present pharmacopoeia bill shall replace the pharmacopoeia law of 21 June 1963 No. 17. And I guess I don't take too much when I claim it was maybe time today's pharmacy law was made subject to changes. The proposal for a pharmacist law not only covers the pharmacy itself, but also discusses NOU 1997:6 Framework conditions for the placing on the market of medicinal products. «Sustainable medicinal products», also referred to as the suspension of the Power Committee, and NOU 1997:7 Pills, priorities and policies. What kind of reimbursement system needs patients and communities? – also called the Option of the Base Selection. This meant that the work on proposals for new pharmacies legislation was both time-consuming and – I must admit – somewhat difficult. It appeared early that skepticism of changes was great, especially in the pharmacies. And this isn't hard to understand, as long as you've been very competitive in this industry. At a time when spending on medicines by the country and its inhabitants is increasing, it is necessary to consider different measures to reduce costs. The proposal currently under consideration provides for a freer right of establishment for pharmacies and for free ownership. This is an important improvement that the Committee agrees with. However, the proposal allows restrictions to be imposed on the establishment of pharmacies in certain geographical areas, which is the Progress Party and the Right. Such a restriction could help to reduce the possibility of competition and hence more appropriate, and low, prices for consumers. The intention of the Party is to ensure that users of medicinal products receive as low a price as possible. It is unfortunate, then, to impose restrictions on competition, which are a reality in the present proposal. What is the majority’s view — all minus the Advancement Party and the Right — is that there is a fear of the coverage of personnel with a pharmaceutical examination. This fear is not shared by the undersigned. What we're saying is that the need will control pharmaceutical personnel where the need is greatest. That's at least the possibility we see in terms of pharmaceutical personnel. Because it is clear that in a functioning market, pharmacists will be dragged where possible to operate. The proposal for a new pharmacy law provides for a new scheme of one owner concession and one operating concession. This is a change in relation to the current law, which has one concession, where the requirement to hold this concession is that a person must have higher pharmaceutical education in order to be able to own a pharmacy. This requirement shall no longer apply to the possession of a pharmacy, but shall instead be linked to the fact that one must be a pharmacist in order to operate a pharmacy. This is a system to which the majority of the Committee subscribes, all except the Right. In the proposition, the right adds up to one concession, and I'm assuming that the right itself will get into its post. Hopefully, two concessions could lead to the establishment of several pharmacies in Norway and to an increase in competition. What has created the most discussion in connection with the submission of the proposal for a new pharmacy law is enough question as to whether pharmacies should continue to have the exclusive right to sell prescription-free medicinal products, or whether it should be opened in order to also be able to sell such products to the retail trade and to others. Non-prescription medicinal products do not have national regulations on the determination of margins and purchase prices, such as prescription medicinal products. This means that this type of medicinal product can be freely priced in each pharmacy. But the problem is, as I signed it, that it per. There is currently no real competition between pharmacies, so that the customer is unable to opt out of a pharmacy with too high prices. The Party wishes to make it possible also for non-pharmacists to sell non-prescription medicinal products. If this had been given a majority, it could have resulted in lower prices of non-prescription medicinal products, as a result of increased competition. It has been found in the retail trade that when competition for a product gets tougher, prices also go down, and this benefits the citizens. However, it seems that it is only the Progress Party and the Right that continue to believe that competition has a positive effect on price levels. It has been argued from some quarters that opening the sale of prescription-free medicinal products other than in pharmacies could lead to increased misuse of medicinal products, with consequent damage. The Party recognises that some non-prescription medicinal products may cause health damage in the event of misuse, including: therefore, it does not take a concrete view on how such sales should be carried out but wishes to assess several options. This may include, inter alia: be organised by having own sales in the store, medical loss, separate departments or a dedicated sales personnel inside the store. It is important that those required to sell such products have the necessary competence in this field. As the undersigned sees it, this is not a problem to get to. I would like to show that in Norway today it is approx. 1 300 drug sales. These medical monkeys are owned by a pharmacy but are served by the service of the shop. This is said to be a good and safe system to ensure access to necessary medicines for people in the district. This is no different from the fact that ordinary shops should also be able to sell this product elsewhere, and at the same time own the cupboard – because it is a reality that in this case it is about who should own the medicine loss, and not just about any adverse effects due to misuse. It is also worth noting that the Department of Proposition writes that three years after the implementation of the law it is to be re-assessed whether to open up the sale of non-prescription medicinal products outside pharmacies. The Progress Party further wants, as the only party, to open up to post-order reapotek in Norway. This would be a system that could lead to a significant reduction in the cost of medicine, as one could obtain larger purchases and a more efficient administration of the dispatch of this type of goods. It is a system that would fit well for, among other things, distribution of medicines, especially to chroniclers, because prescriptions can then be given for three months at a time. I will also be shown that a joint committee asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to amend Section 20 of the Medicines Act, so that the Stortinget can get a full review of what concerns medical advertising. It is pointed out in the proposition that there have been views that this paragraph is being interpreted too strictly. I have to say that if the use of the statement ‘helps against sore throat’ is referred to as illegal medical advertising, it is at least very thoughtful. A unanimous committee also requests that the derogation granted to the Natural Resources Industry Council should continue to apply until the Stortinget has been dealt with this matter. The progress party is concerned about how the reference price supplement has been shown to turn in. We have always opposed this system, as we are of the opinion that the trust between doctor and patient in medicine must not be weakened. If a pharmacy replaces a medicine as a result of the inclusion of another medicine on the reference price list, this helps to create uncertainty for the patient. If the patient chooses not to carry out this exchange, the patient must pay the fee himself, and unfortunately not everyone can afford it. In fact, it turns out in some cases that elderly and sick people cannot afford to pick up the medicine they need because they have to give priority to food that month. And it turns out that the majority of the savings made by the state after the introduction of this system are largely due to increased abstinences for the patient, and this is not agreed by the Progress Party. The Progress Party also believes that prescriptions should be designed in such a way as to allow the doctor to tick the possibility of generic or parallel switching or opposing this. The pharmacy shall under no circumstances be able to supply other medicinal products if the doctor has agreed to do so. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals where the Progress Party stands alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e289	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e292	The area of medicinal products is a very important part of health policy. This area applies, inter alia, to: public reimbursement of expenditure on medicinal products, framework conditions for placing on the market, measures to ensure the proper use of medicinal products, measures for easy and safe access to medicinal products for the general public in all parts of the country, prices linked to both purchases and sales, etc. In the reforms undertaken in the health sector in recent years, emphasis has been placed on solidarity between health services and all. In this it is that everyone in our country should have as equal as possible access to the services and at the same cost as possible. Public authorities are very much responsible for ensuring that everyone is as equal as possible and for providing quality services. This must also be justified in the field of medicinal products. The medicinal product area is essentially organised through private activities with public regulation and control measures. The regulation of the Pharmacy Act is an important part of a review and re-regulation of the pharmaceutical policy. The main change in pharmaceutical policy is linked to the pharmaceutical law itself, and involves changing the framework conditions for the pharmacy in many areas, such as: freer establishment of pharmacy free ownership in the pharmacy issues related to the marketing and sale of medicinal products The pharmaceutical policy is presented in areas other than pharmacy, such as: concerning: public reimbursement of expenditure on medicinal products framework conditions for the placing on the market of medicinal products measures to ensure the correct use of medicinal products Although it is the medical aspects of the area of medicine in relation to the population that are most important, the whole area has an important economic element both for the public budgets and for the individual of us. Although, on a European scale, we in Norway have moderate consumption of drugs, expenditure is high and relatively high. The cost of medicines to the public on a blue prescription has increased sharply in recent years, about 11 pst. average per years. This rate of growth appears to continue, and the proportion of the population’s fear appears to be around $5.5 billion in 2000. The total turnover of medicinal products for approx. DKK 10 billion per year. years. These large counts, both for the public and for the individual users of medicinal products, make it appropriate to look for solutions that could dampen the growth of expenditure. It is also in this context that the proposed measures are now being considered. Our pharmacy has been a major contributor to the quality and safety of medical supplies for several hundred years. The turnover is made through our 392 pharmacies, including branches and hospital pharmacy. Although the number of pharmacies has grown significantly, one might say that the pharmacy has been nearly closed to outsiders, which may have led to too little competition between pharmacies. The Committee has therefore supported the proposal to allow pharmacists other than those with higher pharmaceutical education to own pharmacies. Professional experience shall be ensured by requiring an operating concession where the person responsible for the operation must be a pharmaceutical candidate. I do not think this new form of ownership is unproblematic, and most European countries have professional ownership. The Working Party and I, like the Committee, believe that the supervision of pharmacies must be strengthened under these new conditions in order to ensure the quality of the operation and to ensure compliance with the concession conditions. This must be in place when the law comes into force! We must guard against, and we must prevent pure commercial interests from overstepping absolute demands for professionalism and quality. The establishment control also implies that a concession to economically weak areas is to be seen in the context of a concession to strong and central areas. We also offer a freer establishment in the belief that this can lead to the establishment of several pharmacies. Nevertheless, it must be strictly observed in order to avoid both over-establishment and lack of establishment where the needs of pharmacies are not met. I think it is positive that municipalities, if they want to, now have the opportunity to establish a pharmacy. Partly as a consequence of new forms of ownership, where legal persons without a pharmaceutical examination are to be able to own pharmacies, it is open to chain formations. We now see that chain formation is a reality. If a single chain, by owning a very large proportion of pharmacies, would have the closest monopoly position in the market, it could destroy the competitive situation that is essential for reducing the price to consumers. It is important that both the Ministry and the Competition Authority monitor the consequences of, inter alia, cross-ownership between wholesale and pharmacies and chains that appear to be owned by a large number of pharmacies. I refer to Section 2-2 of the Act, which gives the Ministry the right to limit the number of owner concessions in chains, especially for competition reasons. This possibility should be used if necessary. One may also fear that particularly foreign companies will only invest in the most profitable pharmacies and thus make no contribution to the development of pharmacies throughout the country. It is also important for all stakeholders to work under the same conditions, both wholesalers and pharmacies. This must also be closely followed by the ministry and competition supervision. I am pleased that a large majority have not allowed prescription-free medicines and packages, except prescriptions, to be sold outside the pharmacy. These are medications with active substances that are supposed to work. Reports from countries where these are allowed to be sold outside pharmacies show that misuse, abuse and damage are significant. I am also pleased that we should not sell medicines on mail orders. Today’s freight refund system appears to function well and ensures contact between pharmacists, prescribers and pharmaceutical users. The experience with U.S. mail orders is not good. Incorrect dispatches, less professional guidance and over-consumption do not build trust in such a system. I have noticed that the Pharmacy Group in the EU has said no to mail order sales. The size of the device has not prevented you from sending a receipted prescription between your doctor and pharmacist in the future. It can turn out to be cheaper and time-saving. However, this means that such information cannot be entered into the network until the data security is fully safeguarded. The pharmacy is often regulated without the criteria for such regulation being always transparent. It is important both for the pharmacies and for the authorities that the basis for the regulation of pharmacies is as clear as possible. That is why we have suggested that the Government should provide the Stortinget with a framework in which criteria for determining the margins of pharmacies are investigated and clarified. One of the reasons why the testing of pharmacies is necessary is the lack of pharmacists. I'm well aware that a lot of pharmacies, especially in the districts, don't get enough pharmaceuticals. It is important that any available available capacity at two of our training sites be used to educate more people, for example: The universities of Tromsø and Oslo. The impact of the reference price system is discussed in many contexts. I guess the system didn't get the expected power. However, it is necessary to stimulate measures where the resources of the people are used to the best possible extent. With the introduction of the reference price system, the reimbursement by social security for blue prescription medicine would be linked to the cheapest product, the synonym. The switch to cheaper products and price reductions has taken place at a lower rate than expected, and it seems that many patients choose to pay the fee for more expensive preparations. The rapporteur expressed concerns about the development of excesses. I share that concern, too. It is absolutely one of the factors that must be given weight when assessing the reference price system. I do not think there is any clear reason here either, and I am therefore pleased that the majority has supported the Ministry in making a thorough evaluation of the system in the 2001 budget. The majority of the Committee has asked the Ministry to amend the regulations so that wholesalers specialising in veterinary medicinal products may, in special cases, be exempted from the full range requirement. Then it's important to clarify that the prescriber, i.e. in this case, the veterinarian shall not be allowed to sell – and thus have a self-interest in prescribing and selling – medicinal products. The Committee has also stated that the Ministry may provide detailed provisions for wholesalers to supply to professional end-users medicinal products intended for use in animals. This does not mean a general suspension of the supply of veterinary medicinal products through pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e367	There is a great deal of agreement between the different parties in Odelstinget on the purpose of the new Pharmacy Act. I also understood Asmund Kristoffersen so that he and the Workers' Party want increased availability of medicines for the users and also lower price through the competition that is now possible. But I want to ask him a question as to why the Workers' Party does not go a little further and open up to also allow the sale of prescription-free medicines outside the pharmacy. It's actually happening today through the drug sales. And it's probably more a formality than a reality that the pharmacy that owns a drug sale is very active in its operation. At any rate, it has proved to be through drug sales, to train shopkeepers for the proper handling of the sale of prescription-free medicines. If it goes into the sales that have it today, let's say there's a lot of S teams around the districts that have drug sales, and if S-layer employees can be trained for this, well, Rema and Rimi employees too have to be able to do it. I noticed that the Labour Party's leader in the Social Committee, Gunhild Eyegen, said to Capital magazine, it's written in Capital No. 3 for last year: ‘When was the last guidance given when buying headache tablets?’ So, what is the real reason why the Workers’ Party has not endorsed the views of the fractional leader, as expressed both in Capital and elsewhere, and is opposed to allowing consumers to improve the availability of prescription-free medicines that could happen if they allowed those medicines to be sold by a pharmacy other than a pharmacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e374	One of the steps that has now been taken to increase the availability of medicine is exactly what I commented on in my post, namely freer establishment and a different ownership. At least it's the idea that it should work like this. Among other things, we may have the hope of establishing a pharmacy where one does not have it today, and where there may be a need for it. So it's also like medicine that's not on prescription, is actually medicine. Some of it, when a seller sells it in larger packages, is medicine on which there is a prescription. This has meant that we in the Arbeiderpartiet have had a careful assessment of whether we should go there in Norway to put it out for sale in sales other than the pharmacy. We've been looking at the experiences of some other countries. They seem to me to be personal, and the Workers' Party, too, is not so positive that they speak for the benefit of prescription-free medicines in stores. But we have, like what the previous government suggested, chosen to come back to the matter when you see if the expected increased competition between pharmacies is working, and that thus one might be able to do something about the prices. If it works, I imagine it might be relevant to continue the system as it is today. If it doesn't work, at least it's an argument that makes one also have to take an assessment on that basis. Then I see the representative, Hoegh's instructions for the sale of medicine, as far as is a good prescription to start from.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e381	The Socialist Left Party has, in all respects, taken the same positions as the Labour Party with regard to the new Pharmacy Act, but with one exception, and this has been an exception for quite a long time, namely with regard to the reference price system. I have registered that the Workers' Party has been in different contexts a defender of the reference price system. At the same time, quite a number of reports are received from patients who have to switch medications — the case rapporteur was also involved — and where there is uncertainty about whether the alternative drug works in the same way as the drug from which they were switched. There is also every reason to believe that a number of drugs are not actually used because of this uncertainty. Perhaps there is also a cost increase on the drug side rather than a saving, which was the intention of introducing the reference price system. I would like to ask Asmund Kristoffersen if the Workers' Party is gradually beginning to see such clear weaknesses with the reference price system that it may also be relevant for the Workers' Party to seek alternative solutions to the reference price system for drugs in order to achieve savings on the medication side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e390	I believe that it is gratifying – I did not say it in my speech – that so many parties are united on important aspects of pharmaceutical policy. It's true that the representative, Ballo, said that in terms of the reference price system, we have separated layers, at least in words, in this round. However, it is also the case that the majority of the Committee has requested a thorough evaluation of the reference price system. It is, I think, necessary to have some media in the pharmaceutical industry, because it is extremely focused on profits – there may be a lot of industries – and the yield is, in part, large at least in part of the joints, which requires some incentives to see if one can reduce both public expenditure and consumer expenditure. It has not happened at the rate that many had expected. This is not possible to go into a line, but it may be that the loyalty of the system, for example. from those who prescribe, are not good enough, to now suggest it. But it may also be that the options are not good enough. If they're not, it means that it can affect patients in an unreasonable way. The numbers we've been presented to, as Ballo referred to, I think I'm pretty serious, and I mentioned earlier that weight has to be added. If this leads to an unintended burden of self-interest for people, it will be included, and we have taken the view that this ratio is given importance in the evaluation to be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e400	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e403	The proposal for a new pharmacy law involves fundamental reforms in the country's pharmacy. At the same time, a further builds on the high professional standards of quality and safety of the pharmacy and must remain. New groups are open on the owner’s side, and there will be a freer establishment of pharmacies. So far, it is known only to persons with a pharmaceutical examination who have been able to own and operate pharmacies. Such a system has clear advantages, but also disadvantages. It has helped to ensure a high professional standard, while contributing to the closure of the pharmaceutical industry to outsiders, thereby blocking incentives for change and competition. It is therefore appropriate, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, to open up new groups on the owner's side, while at the same time ensuring safety and quality by ensuring that the pharmacist continues to be a pharmaceutical candidate, that he is given clear and public standards of safety and quality to base the operation of the pharmacy on, and that compliance with the professional requirements is monitored publicly. It should not be necessary to specify that when access is now open to anyone other than pharmaceutical candidates to own pharmacies, it does not of course mean that the current pharmacists will be deprived of their pharmacies. The aim is to introduce new interests which may contribute to a slightly greater degree of competition for the benefit of pharmacies’ customers. When other groups are now allowed to own pharmacies, it is also important to set limits on the concession to such ownership. Among other things, applicants for a pharmacy concession will be required to demonstrate financial ability to operate properly, including financial ability to provide the necessary non-profit-making pharmaceutical services, including rapid provision of supplies and medicinal products, and the likelihood that the professional activities of the pharmacy will be sufficiently extensive to ensure and maintain the pharmacies’ competence. It is also important that persons who manufacture or prescribe medicinal products or who are closely related to such activities are not able to own pharmacies. In the interests of regional policy, it is important that the conditions of a pharmacy concession may require the provision of medical supplies through the establishment and operation of pharmacies or the sale of medicinal products in areas not pharmacies, or through the take-over of pharmacies or medical sales in areas at risk of losing pharmacies. It is particularly worth noting that such conditions can also be imposed after the concession has been granted. If the law is to function properly, it is important that there be effective competition in the application for a concession of ownership, so that no owner or chain is given a dominant position in the market. A unanimous committee has therefore proposed that the Ministry should be able to lay down rules restricting the right to concession in the case of competition policy considerations. These developments need to be closely monitored. As regards the pharmacopoeia concession, as mentioned above, it shall continue to be reserved for pharmacists. In my opinion, this will contribute to securing the professional standard in the pharmacy. However, if we are to maintain this standard while ensuring good pharmacies coverage throughout the country, it is important that we use the educational capacity of the pharmacy study, as a unanimous committee has pointed out. The Ministry has pointed out in its proposal the need to increase the educational capacity of the groups of workers in the pharmacies. It has been shown that, despite the strengthening of educational capacity for prescriptions with 28 study places and an increase in the main pharmaceutical study with 15 places, a certain scarcity of pharmaceutical labour is expected in the coming years. These developments also need to be closely monitored, including: with a view in particular to the pharmacopoeial coverage in pig-grown areas. For the Christian People's Party, it is important, in addition to maintaining the high quality of the pharmacy, to ensure the coverage of medicinal products in the districts. As mentioned above, the new law allows access to require the establishment and operation of pharmacies or medical sales in areas without a pharmacy offer, or the acquisition of pharmacies or medical sales in areas at risk of losing the pharmacies offer, as a condition for a pharmacy concession. Another possible regional policy instrument is the access that municipalities, possibly in cooperation, will have to enter as owners of pharmacies. Another significant factor in ensuring pharmacies coverage in the districts will be that the sale of medicinal products will continue only to take place in pharmacies or medical sales. The Christian People's Party has therefore, like the Committee majority, all except the Party of Advancement and the Right, opted for the sale of medicinal products outside the pharmacy. This has both professional and district policy causes. By allowing medicinal products free of prescription only to be sold through pharmacies and medical sales, the pharmacy has a professional responsibility for the supply of the medicinal product in question. Medical sales through the retail trade could increase availability and reduce control of this sale. Although this is only about prescription-free medicinal products or medicinal products in non-prescription packs, good information to the user may be important because of the risk of adverse reactions, etc. However, the sale of prescription-free drugs and packages is also an essential part of the income base of pharmacies. Drug sales in grocery stores will therefore be able to remove the financial basis for district pharmacists. The Christian People's Party is committed to making it economically possible to operate pharmacies, even in relatively pig-grown areas, and will therefore not contribute to the demolition of a substantial part of the income base from such pharmacies. The arguments against drug sales in shops are also valid in relation to post-order pharmacy. In my opinion, district pharmacists have satisfactorily addressed today's system of shipment of medicinal products, and the freight refund system ensures that pharmaceutical users who live far from the nearest pharmacy, prescription medicines sent to them without shipping. The pharmacy is in contact with both the prescriber and the medicinal product user who must assume that a post-order pharmacy will not be able to have it. During the examination of this legislative proposal, the Committee has been made aware that a wholesaler of fish-farming medicinal products and warm-blooded animals can supply, for example, fish vaccines directly to the breeder, but not the anesthetics to be used at the same time as the vaccine, which are a prerequisite for the implementation of the vaccination. This must be sent from the pharmacy. The Committee considers that increased access to direct supply from wholesalers to professional end-users will be a desirable simplification in the case of medicinal products intended for use in animals and has therefore, in consultation with the Ministry, submitted proposals for action in this direction. The proposal for a new pharmacy law provides for the creation of pharmacists – but not free – ownership, and for the free – but not free – establishment of pharmacies. So we're not talking about a general release. The Christian People's Party believes that the law as it now exists will be a decent tool to ensure high standards and good coverage of pharmacies throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e429	The right is opposed to monopoly, whether they are private or public. We therefore look forward to the fall of the 400 - year - old pharmacy monopoly. That is why we also support the proposals of the previous government on the subject of liberalisation and a freer pharmacy. These are good suggestions, but in our opinion they do not go far enough. There are two considerations that have been crucial to the Right’s position on the issue of new pharmacy law. Firstly, consumers’ demands for increased availability of pharmacies services, as well as for lower prices of medicines. In order to meet these needs, we need to compete in the pharmacies market. The second consideration has been the requirement and right of consumers to dispose of good and effective medicinal products in order to avoid misuse and abuse. And to that, we need a code and some guidelines. It is not yet in place, since the previous government did not propose a free establishment and the placing on the market of medicinal products outside pharmacies. We therefore need to get it in place before we can put in place the law that Right and Advance Party give the Government to allow the sale of prescription-free medicines outside of pharmacy. Before I go further, I would like to thank the pharmacists who, over the centuries, have been responsible for professionally strong and serious ownership and the operation of the pharmacies. However, the modernisation and adaptation to a new reality that requires increased availability and more competition in order to get at lower prices have gone a little too easily. It's become a little too little noticed. It is therefore important to bring competition into the pharmacy in order to impose increased availability through longer opening hours and lower medical prices. For example, many mothers of young children experience often that when a child has a fever in the evening, all pharmacies nearby are closed. These are the reasons we have to take when we have to establish rules that make it easier with longer opening hours, rules that open up to competition, which in turn may lead to longer opening hours because that is what it takes to do and to satisfy consumers. If we are to get lower drug prices, the prescription-free medicines are important. We must then allow others, other than the pharmacies, to sell them. That is why the right to the free establishment of pharmacies is right, and we therefore do not support the proposal on the establishment ceilings in cities. As the Ministry also points out in the proposition, this could lead to a weakening of competition in cities and a cementing of established chains, i.e. the Apocalypse. But in order not to go beyond the pharmaceutical coverage in the districts, we are behind the majority view that a condition should be imposed on pharmacies in a so-called food security area, i.e. in the districts, in order to obtain a concession in a nutrient-rich area, i.e. in the cities. We think that's important to ensure the good pharmacy coverage that I assume all parties want, no matter where in the country it is. Then I have to fix an error that I have discovered in the setting on page 25, second column. Paragraphs 2 to 2, where it is stated that the entire Committee proposes to provide the Ministry with this basis in the second subparagraph in order to be able to refuse a concession on the basis of competitive considerations. That's right. But then by mistake you've also attached to the third term. It seems that the Right Party and the Advance Party are also involved in proposing the right to have an establishment control in cities, and that is not the case. It is shown as far as the following is concerned. The position is also correct, but I would like to make it clear that it is not the committee that proposes the third paragraph, as it might look like. The government, as I said, has not proposed to open up the sale of prescription-free medicines outside the pharmacy, despite the fact that this is happening today through the so-called drug sales. As I said in the reply to Asmund Kristoffersen, I think it's more of a formality than a reality that these drug sales have daily pharmacies overseen. At least the pharmacies have found out that it's possible to train people in the S teams. Then it must also be possible to train people in other grocery stores to manage such sales. I note that there is a somewhat different view in the Workers' Party of this, as the Vice-Chair of the Committee and the Workers' Party's Group leader in the Committee, Gunhild Eyeågen, have so clearly expressed both to Capital and other media that she sees it as an advantage to obtain general medicinal products, for example. Headache tablets, into the shops. I hope, then, that the new Minister of Health can look at this in the light of his expressed wish for increased competition, that perhaps you can come back a little faster than the previously suggested three years in order to assess the possibility of opening up such sales outside the pharmacy, but of course within a reasonable framework. I would like to remind you of the proposals made by the Progress Party and the Right here, namely that the same must be true, whether the sale of medicinal products takes place in pharmacies or in other kinds of shops. The authorities may lay down requirements for the proper handling of any person who operates a pharmacy. What we're pointing out is that you can either continue the system of your own medical loss, your own drug sale at the stores. You can have the so-called store in the store concept. Special training staff may be provided in the handling of prescription-free medicinal products. You can have your own shelves of information and maybe Internet access to get customers to know what these medicines involve, including side effects, and you can also, of course, assess age limits for the purchase of prescription-free medicines. All of this we believe that the Government must go through and make guidelines, and once it has done so, it should be opened so that prescription-free medicinal products can be sold outside of pharmacy. All of this, which is Right's point of view, makes us no longer see any need for post-order re-apothec, as the Progress Party has agreed. We see that there are clear weaknesses in mail order pharmacy, that you do not get that closeness to the customer, that the customer does not get the same opportunity for information and guidance that you will otherwise receive. We see that it is not the same need if our proposals on the free pharmacy are implemented. However, I will agree with what Mr. Asmund Kristoffersen just said, that when it comes to mail order sales and our refusal to do so, it obviously applies to audiences not being able to buy by mail order. But it should not, if necessary, affect teleshopping, the online purchase of medicines between professional users, as we see it. Right-wing support, as has been said, that pharmacies other than pharmacists should be able to own pharmacies. It will, we think, give a new gift and represent new knowledge of efficient and customer-friendly operation in the pharmacy. But we're moving towards such a two-concession arrangement, a concession for ownership and a concession for operation. We believe that this would be an unnecessary system, unnecessary bureaucratic. It may also encourage a conflict between the owner and the driver, and, most seriously perhaps, it could disconnect the owner of the pharmacy from taking responsibility for the professional operations. Right-wing owners want to see not only pharmacies based on financial interests and as a capital position. We want owners of pharmacies, of pharmacies who also take a joint responsibility and are interested in the professional operation. Therefore, we believe that the professional requirements, that is, that there should be a pharmacist who is responsible for the day-to-day operation, and all the requirements contained in the proposition for the operation of the pharmacy, can be made to the owner as a requirement as to what kind of driving he is allowed to hire in his pharmacy. As many people have been involved, the new pharmaceutical proposal allows chains to be used, chains to own a lot of pharmacies. The entire Committee accepts this, although this proposal brings Norway into a small and exclusive club in Europe. There are not many other countries that allow chains to own pharmacies; there are probably no more than a few. Today's pharmacists have been competent, from their point of view, I think you could say, to think about this new reality, because they've created the Apocalypse. That means, if everything is going to be what it is today, that everything is going to be what it is today, even after the next year, and that wasn't what it was supposed to be. If 70-80 pst. by today’s pharmacists remain in the Apocalypse and they get this cooperation with the smallest wholesaler in the Norwegian market today, Tamro, there will be an approximate national pharmacopoeia monopoly, and that was not the intention. The Committee has strongly warned against this, and we ask the Ministry and the Credit Authority to follow developments closely and ensure that competition law is fully enforced in this area. But I guess there's a reason to think that the Apocalypse will work something out when the new law comes into force. There is good reason to believe that many pharmacists will sell themselves to others, either Norwegian owners or non-resident owners. I'm familiar with, you know, you tend to say, that Norsk Medisinaldepot intends to become the owner of such a pharmacy chain. If that's right, I don't think you should be as critical of that part of the Apocalypse's positioning that they're connected to Tamro and not to NMD. Because the Apocalypse had joined forces with and used NMD as the only wholesaler, so they have 70 pst. of the market today – it would really be black about the competitive situation. That's probably one of the reasons, I think, that they've chosen Tamro. So it's important when the new law comes into force. In the opinion of the Right, that should happen the sooner the better. I recall our proposal that the most important chapters of the law, 2 and 3, relating to concessions, should come into force as of 1 July this year. I hope the Minister of Health, even if we do not agree with this proposal, will look into it carefully and see if it is possible – because I have the impression that the whole committee could wish – that some chapters of the law will come into force earlier than the others. If it had been possible to bring them into force as early as this summer, it would have been beneficial for the competitive situation. Many will, hopefully, change when the law comes into force. I would like to remind you of the main objectives of increasing the availability of pharmaceutical services and cheaper medicines for consumers. If this is to become a reality, competition must work from day one. There is also a general reference to pharmaceutical policy in the proposal for the new Pharmacy Act. Two samples form the basis for this work. It's the Basic Committee, which has looked at the public reimbursement schemes in particular, and the Stream Committee, which has seen more on the pharmacy page. I think that the thorough and good attitude of the Grund Committee had deserved a better fate than to become a small appendix to the Pharmacy Act. Here are many and important questions that are raised. Time does not allow me to go into them. Time and space have not, to any extent, allowed the Committee to deal with this very much. But it is important that we have a medicine management that is of today and that can take care of the reasons we want. I hope that the new minister will also take seriously what the previous one at least had some, perhaps a little vague, promises, namely to present a separate case to the Social Committee at the latest in the context of the revised national budget this year on the future of pharmaceutical policy management, because there is a lot to be done here, so that Norwegian patients will not be the last in Europe to have access to new and effective medicines. I finally mentioned the suggestions that have been notified to the right in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e468	The representative Annelise Höegh has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e473	Now, I guess the areas where there's disagreement between the Workers' Party and the Right are, as far as already revealed and commented. But I think maybe the representative, Høegh, had a very relaxed relationship with that one can call vertical integration or maybe cross-ownership. My question would then be: wouldn't it not have been an advantage if the individual pharmacy had been freer than it seems to be today, could it have been related to the different wholesalers in the market and not so strongly tied up to what seems to be one wholesaler? Then the representative Høegh blamed himself for a manifest misunderstanding. She prescribed a discrepancy in the Workers' Party's fraction, possibly in the Workers' Party's group, which is not present. Now this law has been in Stortinget for a very long time, and there have been many statements both from the representative Eyeågen and from me and others, where we have said that different conditions might have to be assessed. We've got the pheasant through this setting. For those who have to be interested in the processes of the Workers' Party Group, I can show that it is therefore a unanimous grouping that is behind all the comments and suggestions made on behalf of the Party in the Committee. But the point that was up to discussion here, and where I very much agreed with what the previous government had presented, was that an assessment of what the fate of prescription drugs in small packages and prescription-free medications should be, should be done when you have seen the effect of the law. Then one and the other get their opinion on the basis of experience in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e480	No, I don't have a very relaxed relationship with cruise ownership, as the representative Kristoffersen suggested. But there is no one, either from the previous government or from any part of the Storting, who has found that he would forbid it. If we look at what's happening in other markets, for example. in the daily food industry, it is more and more the development that takes place that an agreement is concluded with one main supplier. But I have understood the agreement between the Apocalypse and Tamro so that there is a clear reservation in this that they will stick to Tamro, and it is based on the assumption that Tamro will always be able to deliver the most competitive goods. If it is such that other wholesalers can offer goods at a lower price, the individual pharmacist in the Apocalypse is free to contact other suppliers. I think that is a very important point of the agreement. If there is any doubt about this point, I agree with what was well in Kristoffersen's suggestion that then the Competition Authority should intervene. Because if it is not possible to go to those who offer the best price offer to consumers, competition does not work as intended, and then you have to have the opportunity to intervene. So with these clear assumptions, I'm on what I said, because the right is fully behind the critical comments that the committee has presented. We've also contributed to them, to reveal it. Then, of course, as Kristoffersen said, once the party has spoken, the party has spoken, and I perceive that the whole Workers' Party is behind it. I have nevertheless mentioned some quotations from the Gunhild Eyecand and others that may indicate that there is some variation in the views, and I hope that the variations come out more gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e489	As Annelise Höegh referred to, right-hand access to concessional caps in central districts – §2-2, and for the sale of prescription-free drugs outside pharmacies. In my view, the sale of prescription-free medicines outside the pharmacy has two sides, a professional and an economic one. As far as professional matters are concerned, Annelise Höegh refers to general headache tablets, which she would like to have in the grocery trade. After receiving a patient who has had their second bleeding stomach ulcer due to their second usual headache tablet, it becomes clear that this is not sugar confectionery, and also when you get into the hospital people who are seriously poisoned by tablets of pack sizes that are sold without a prescription. Isn't it a bigger problem to control this compared to five thousand grocery stores, for example, than for a thousand drug sales? The second is economic. The sale of prescription-free medicines is an essential part of the income base of many pharmacies, most of them, and extending the outlets to the retail trade will, in my opinion, lead to that yes, we get more outlets for prescription-free medications, but we can get fewer pharmacies. Is there a positive development that Right will support?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e498	Now Are Næss thought to have heard me talk about that I would like to have the headache tablets in stores, and indirectly, of course, that's right. But it was a quote from the Gunhild Eyecand that made me mention that example, just to mention it. But seriously, we take seriously the dangers of misuse that are clearly contained in some of the drugs that are currently non-prescription, but only in smaller packaging. And even though I'm not a professional in the medical spheres, I've understood it so that the headache tablets might be one of the most toxic things we have. So this is nothing to germinate off. This is also why the Right Party and the Progressive Party have so clearly stated in their proposal that before these medicines can be placed on the market outside pharmacies, clear guidelines must be provided by the Ministry. And as I went into my post, we have given a good deal of suggestions on how it should or can take place. But it must be said with respect that the Gunhild Eyeball is right in the quote I mentioned, that when was the last time you received guidance on the purchase of headache tablets in a pharmacy? It's not that often. That means that the most important thing we can do is to give with guidance, give with information and encourage doctors to be more good at telling their patients that when you go on them and them and the other drugs, you have to be careful with that and the prescription-free medicine. So I believe more in the general information in the population, and not least in those patients who may be extra exposed to some of the headache tablets, than I do that this should be used against getting at lower prices, more competition and more availability for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e507	The Party of Progress and the Right is essentially in this Proposition, except in the case of the Concession Arrangement, where the Party of Progress will have a two-part Concession Arrangement, while the Right does not apply to a two-part Concession Arrangement. But then there's one more point that I've reacted to when it comes to the Right. For the Right, write, among other things, in its observations, the following: ‘However, the members of the Committee of the Right consider that the bladder prescription system should preferably be reserved for reimbursement of expensive medicinal products for serious and chronic conditions. This is important in order to ensure a socially equivalent range of medicinal products. Those members therefore consider that cheap medicinal products should not be refunded to any disease groups.» My question to the representative Annelise Höegh is: what do you mean by cheap medicines? An imaginary situation: there is a great difference in the economy between people and, for a minimum pensioner or the elderly with poor advice, even what the Right defines as ‘cheap drugs’ would have to lead to unreasonable costs compared to the benefits of even more reasonable drugs. What do you really mean by cheap drugs? Would you like to remove some medicines from the list that are there, so that the minimum pensioners who are currently experiencing major problems in affording even cheap medicines could not benefit from the blue prescription scheme for these medicines?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e519	I would like to extend a warm thanks to the representative Nesvik for giving me the opportunity to talk a little bit about this topic, because it surprised me that not only the Advance Party, but also no other parties would be involved in this remark in the vote. All batches are well aware that almost daily — at least monthly — new effective, good medicines come on the market that Norway either does not apply to the prescription scheme or are very late to apply to the prescription scheme. I am concerned that the most important thing about the blueprint system is that it will and may be in the future what it was supposed to be originally, namely a reimbursement scheme, so that there will be no difference between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker as to the possibility of obtaining and using good, effective but expensive medicines to combat serious illness. That's the danger we're facing today, because the bladder prescription system is greatly increasing. There is a much stricter practice of including new good medicines in this system today, regardless of the government and the health minister, I have the impression – one can hope for the new one – but it is therefore a much more stringent and restrictive approach to taking new drugs today than it was before. In that perspective, I think we need to be willing to see if there are some cheaper drugs that are there today, that can be taken out, and we should at least say no to taking up new cheap drugs that can get a lot of circulation. Let me give you one example: we have had a female health committee that has proposed that estrogen treatment and estrogens should be obtained on a blue prescription. I've distanced that from that. To the right, it goes against this because it is so cheap drugs that, to a large extent, it also makes sense to take them up on the prescription system — and say no to asthma pills or new cancer drugs, just to mention the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e528	The present proposal for new pharmacies law is one of several initiatives of the central government for the necessary changes in the health sector. Of course, this has led to debate, and it is important for me to stress at the beginning of my speech that such arrangements must be based on target management, namely ensuring quality and offering throughout the country, and that there should be a fundamental solidarity that we have with us. I also assume that the arrangements will be evaluated, evaluated and corrected as experience is gained, so that the purpose is achieved. The new proposal consists essentially of the introduction of a freer right of establishment for pharmacies, the abolition of the exclusive right of pharmacists to own pharmacies, and the establishment of a control system. This shall ensure that the new regime does not lead to unhealthy competitive conditions, the pre-allocation of pharmaceuticals and geographical pharmacies coverage. Furthermore, the quality of the products supplied must be high in order to ensure quality. The pharmacists shall continue to have the exclusive right to operate the professional pharmacies, i.e. that at each pharmacy there must be a pharmacist who has an operating licence to the pharmacy concerned, and this seems to be reassuring in terms of quality. The new legislation for the establishment of pharmacies would have been unacceptable for the Centre Party without good control arrangements. The centre party believes that in most cases private pharmacies should be operated, but market regulation is obviously not sufficient in this area. The public must enter and govern and secure the offer throughout the country. In my opinion, there is reason to believe that the control mechanisms now provided for in the new Pharmacy Act, together with existing control mechanisms, are sufficient to ensure healthy competitive conditions, pharmacies throughout the country and a high quality of the products to be offered by pharmacies. If there is a situation where a site has no pharmacies or pharmacies coverage, a number of measures to be taken to remedy the situation are proposed. Firstly, the operating grant scheme shall be continued. Secondly, it opens up for municipalities to have a pharmacist's concession. In my opinion, then, it is sufficient to ensure pharmacies coverage throughout the country, which will be crucial for us. However, if this assessment does not keep pace, we will, of course, be the first to demand an intensification of the measures. When this is such a demanding and controversial case in many ways, I think it is in recognition that in this area there are very strong forces going out and going, and it is such that people's need for drugs at a reasonable price, wherever they live in the country, must be secured by the public authority in a market that, in my opinion, would otherwise run smoothly. That is why I trust, and I would like to stress, that the Government will follow up the new arrangements in such a way as to ensure the interests of the majority voting and, if necessary, take the initiative to correct if it turns out that this will not be the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e546	First, I would like to ask the representative, Mr Lahnstein. This includes, among other things: representatives of the former government parties who have claimed that there is a risk of mismedication and that part of the sale of medicines in stores. It was the special representative Naess who was really concerned – for stomach ulcers and a little different and my question to the representative Lahnstein is: does the representative Lahnstein share the view of the representative Naess, as one belonged to the same ‘block’ in connection with the formation of government? Will it again be said that the medical loss scheme in the districts, which has been mentioned in the past as good and safe, is not working properly? That must be the conclusion, as I see it. Because it's not a pharmacy, it's just a cabinet owned by the pharmacy, which you run in the store. That's the first question. So the second thing I want to ask the representative, Lahnstein. It seems that the governance of the outgoing government was unreasonable, because if you look at the second sentence of Section 5-1 of the Pharmacy Act, second sentence, it says the following: «The pharmacist shall have access to those parts of the pharmacy which are not a public zone upon authorization by the pharmacist or pharmacist.» Does the representative, Mr Lahnstein, really think it makes sense to restrict the right of the owner to move in his own pharmacy? Is that the kind of regulation you want in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e558	The representative Nesvik asks me about my attitude toward medical loss in the districts. I just think that I have to refer here to the comments in the setting where the center party is included. What is the point of our attitude here is precisely to ensure both quality and availability, and also to ensure that one, for example. has an adverse reaction correction and a possibility to intervene. In the case of Nose's vision, which was expressed in his posts, I agree with Nose in it. When it comes to the fact that an owner – under the legislation, I understand – should not be able to go throughout his pharmacy, I have to say that I am there on a little thin ground. But I have understood that once you have shared the concession between the owner and the operation, it is actually to ensure that the operation has the professional anchoring that is necessary to ensure the quality. That's how I've perceived it, and I can't go into why this is designed as it is, more than showing back to the setting. I trust that this will be handled by the department and the authorities in such a way that it does not seem pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e567	I think the answer to the question asked by the rapporteur was quite satisfactory. But it was really like a supplement to that that I took the word. Based on the contributions of the representative, Nesvik, it may seem that if you own something, you have access to absolutely everything, including the glory that is at hand. It is clear that a number of people own private medical centres without being given the keys to the medical losses of morphine, amphetamines and what else could be available. It cannot be unreasonable to regulate access to drugs in the form of legislation – even if you own a pharmacy – if you are not able to handle them properly professionally. As far as I can see, that is what you are talking about here through the regulation of the premises, accommodation and equipment in Section 5-1.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e574	The President is a little uncertain whether Olav Gunnar Ballo is correcting the line to the last or to the previous speaker. However, the President will give the floor to the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein for any reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e577	I would like to thank the representative Ballo for completing my reply to Nesvik. I perceive that Nesvik's description of the pointless or incomprehensible fact that an owner should not necessarily have access to the drugs, is now answered by me – and by the representative Ballo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e582	No more lines have been requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e585	The Socialist Left Party is well pleased with the majority position that exists here for the Odelstinget for treatment, and therefore also with the draft new pharmacy law that existed from the outgoing government, because it has been passed on to all the central points. In the view of SV, the most central issue of the new Pharmacy Act is the distinction between ownership and operating concession. Under the new Pharmacy Act, it is possible to own a pharmacy without having to have competence as a pharmacist. At the same time, the law ensures that pharmacists are employed on the operational side to ensure professionalism. We have also noted in SV a number of different games from many different parties, linked to, among other things. the sale of pharmacies outside pharmacies, in particular non-prescription products. We have also recorded that in parties other than those that are in favour of it today, namely the Advance Party, it has been arranged for the sale of mail orders. It has warned SV against it all the time, and I have commented on it in different contexts and said that it should not be accepted. That's why we're very pleased that what was the position of the outgoing government has also been endorsed by the majority. The sale of non-prescription drugs outside the pharmacies, which included Are Næss, could cause side effects very quickly, which, of course, are not intended, but which could still occur because the information will not be good enough. In particular, acetylsalicylic acid is used in minors, where adverse reactions have been seen in the past to be very serious, including in a single tablet. Paracetamol may be the most common drug in Norway for poisoning, and especially for liver damage. It is a medicinal product which is not prescribed when sold in the smallest packages and which could then be sold outside the pharmacy. Also antihistamines, which are currently sold in minimum packs without a prescription, could have significant side effects if taken many of them. So many speakers here have said that you don't get very good information in pharmacies either, what could be so wrong with the medicines being sold outside pharmacies? That's what I think is a wonderful way to argue. Now it is the case that, fortunately, the law of § 6-7 regulates exactly what information is to be provided, and it must be a point that the information chain, which the pharmacy represents, refers to the law and advises the pharmacies to comply with the law, rather than to weaken that information by selling the medicinal products outside pharmacies. Are Næss was also concerned that there is a not insignificant income base here for the pharmacies, and I think that also matters. If the consequence of the withdrawal of such medicinal products from pharmacies is that there is no longer any nutritional basis for pharmacies, e.g. In a number of districts, it will be very unfortunate. Therefore, it is important to see both the professional argument and the argument about income in the context. SV is very pleased that Section 2-8(e) on which several people have been involved imposes conditions for running and owning pharmacies with other pharmacies, e.g. district pharmacy, and in this way a distribution effect can be achieved through the paragraph. But it depends on using it actively, and it's not going to be a sleeping paragraph. Otherwise, paragraphs 2 to 8 are important in general because interaction with healthcare is required locally. And one thing I think you should be concerned about is that the pharmacy is part of the rest of the health care system, it has significant professional features and can increase competence both in the central and in the districts, provided that it is stimulated by professional cooperation, and that you stress the information obligation of the pharmacies. I would like to commend the outgoing government for the work they have done on the new Pharmacy Act. I think it will be a good law, which will also enable and stimulate coverage in the districts, provided that in particular § 2-8 is actively used.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e605	The left is not in the committee, but we follow the majority on all crucial points. However, I would like to make some comments about the suspension, firstly that we in Norway have a low level of drug consumption compared to most countries – it is in my opinion linked to restrictive pharmaceutical policies – and that Norwegian pharmacies have taken their share of the responsibility for implementing such policies. The reforms that are being introduced today do not prevent it from continuing to be so. On the contrary, even after today’s reforms, pharmacies will be a natural part of the health care system, but it is important that such developments occur. That is why I would like to make a few comments on the evaluation that the Committee refers to in some contexts of the vote. In particular, after three years, the issue of the placing on the market of prescription-free products will be considered. You also want to look at other questions after three years. I believe that when evaluating – and I think it is right to evaluate important reforms – you should also look at issues such as supervision. Does supervision work well enough at this point in time? Is supervision developing well? We are in Norway today in general in a situation where we are committed to strengthening supervision in a number of societal areas. In this area, where we open up more competition that we believe should not affect quality and which we believe should not affect the districts, the supervisory function is very important. This is why it is important to put the supervisory function in place, and it is also important to evaluate it. Similarly, it is important to look at impacts on districts. My party supports the regulatory mechanism that has been put in place by the majority, but it may well be that we are still – and I am building, for example. on the experience of my childhood, Sør-Trøndelag – has a pharmacy that is so small that if someone goes in to foam the cream, it may well be that you rub the cream in a large dense place in a district, let's say a place of 5,000 – 6,000 people, but what you end up with if someone does is undermine the pharmacy that's there. I don't see that as intentional, either from the government I sat in, or from the committee majority, but I mention it as a point, so that you can be aware when you follow the further development. At the same time, I think it is important to assess the structure of ownership and competitive conditions, when both strong domestic and foreign chains come in. This has been discussed by the Committee on page 22 of the opinion, and I think it is important that it be included. Finally, I would also like to refer to the professional business in the pharmacies, which was mentioned in a reply. Let me give you a line, since I have an earlier field of expertise that is linked to the judiciary: It is permissible to own a gun shop, but it is not at the same time permissible to carry weapons without further delay. To put it another way: you can own a pharmacy and have full access to all the data relating to financial operations, but you do not have free access to everything that is traded. Fortunately, it is a law in Norway that regulates this in a good way, there is no difference between King Solomon and Jørgen hatmaker in that way, and it is a health feature of our Norwegian social system that we have it this way. But I think the representative of Ballo convincingly brought the medical information into the debate on that point, so I'm not going to elaborate on it. I hope that when the law comes into force, you ensure that the regulatory system is in place, and that you do not proceed so quickly that you do not get a proper procedure in connection with the regulatory system. With regard to the reform, if equal men and women are to receive a better offer through the competition to which they are put, they must also look at the educational capacity. This is described in the setting. I know that both at the University of Oslo and at the University of Tromsø, the recording capacity for the pharmacy study can be increased in autumn 2000 if funds are allocated to this in the revised national budget. This is a thought I'm sending with the new Minister of Health, but I'm not going to go any further than that. I think it is an important reform we have – the law is being modernised, but it is being modernised in such a way that we take into account that Norway is still a country where people live not only in cities, such as the city where this Parliament is located, but also in pig-grown areas. And we are very concerned to ensure the quality even after this reform has been implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e623	The next speaker on the list is Berit Brørby. The President can't see that Berit Brørby is present in the Chamber. Then we move on to the next and last recorded speaker, state councillor Tore Tønne.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e628	In the mid-1990s, Harlem Brundtland’s new pharmacy law focused on the organisation of the pharmaceutical market, among others. through the appointment of the so-called Power Selection. Deregulation of the pharmacy is one of the recommendations of the Power Committee that the Bondevik government followed up with the Stortinget. I note that the proposal for a new pharmacy law has brought together broad support within the committee. In other words, a broad political consensus underpins the proposed pharmaceutical reform – a reform of which there are historical dimensions. Since the 1600s, there have been restrictions on the right to establish and own pharmacies for non-pharmacies. When other groups are now available on the owner’s side and access to pharmacies is freer, this reflects a more recent view of the use of state regulation to achieve health policy objectives. The main task of the pharmacy is to contribute to good access to medicinal products under conditions of safety, quality and availability. These are health policy objectives that can be achieved through other and less market-intensive instruments than through state regulation and restrictions on the ownership and establishment policy of pharmacies. The objectives can be achieved through clear professional requirements for pharmacy in the law itself, in the regulatory body and in the concessional conditions, as well as through follow-up by the authorities to ensure that the professional requirements are complied with in practice. Today’s pharmacy is generally of high standard. I expect the professional level in the pharmacy to be maintained at at least as high in the future. I would like to contribute to this by establishing a regulatory body with clearer and, if necessary, stricter professional requirements as well as an enhanced pharmaceutical supervision. For pharmacies, the new Pharmacy Act represents many possibilities. The requirement that pharmacies be owned personally by individual undertakings is abandoned so that each pharmacist will be free to choose the appropriate form of ownership. This allows for the formation of companies and the formation of chains in the pharmacies industry, and thus for new forms of ownership, new owners and new competences. The tendency that we have already seen to integrate the pharmacies into wholesale markets is bearing in mind the trend towards increased purchasing power vis-à-vis pharmaceutical manufacturers. This is an important development towards a more balanced medicinal product market and provides better opportunities for a lower price level of medicinal products in the longer term. At the retail level, pharmaceutical reform involves a stronger and more efficient distribution stage in the pharmaceutical market, with good potential for more efficient resource use. In this context, the deregulation of the pharmacy will serve both public and user interests. Users must be able to expect better pharmacy services through shorter waiting times, better information and a wider range of pharmaceutical services. Subsequently, lower prices should also be expected for some services and products sold from pharmacies. These expectations for the reform are based on a prerequisite for competition in the pharmacies industry. To date, there has in fact been no price competition between pharmacies. Recent trends in concentration may indicate counterclaims to competition also in the future. I find any positioning for such a purpose unfortunate, and in this way share the concern expressed by the Committee. However, the competition authorities are aware of the current situation in the pharmacies market. Competition supervision will monitor developments closely and, if necessary, will take action to ensure competition. In addition, as a concession authority under both the current and the new Pharmacy Act, the Ministry will facilitate the conditions for new actors and further contribute to ensuring that established actors do not impede competition. The special interest of the authorities in the medicinal product market has not least its background in the very large amounts provided for in the social security budget for reimbursement of medicinal products. These are well-used social security funds, given that the health benefits are proportionate to the use of resources. The development of new medicinal products and improved knowledge of the efficacy of old medicinal products provide regular evaluations of the blue prescription system. The most effective management of the BIP is among the main objectives of a new State pharmaceutical administration. I will inform the Stortinget about this later, initially in the revised national budget 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e645	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e648	It is clear that after such a short time in the Council of State, it cannot be expected that the Council of State can give the most profound answers. But I want to point out one thing, and it's in Section 20 of the Medicines Act, that's what's related to natural resources. A unanimous committee asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for changes to the law in connection with what is involved in medical advertising. Today there will be, among other things: the claim ‘helps against sore throat’, which I had in mind in my post, interpreted as medical advertising. My question to the Council of State is whether he will quickly start a review of how this paragraph is interpreted, so that one gets an interpretation of medical advertising that is in line with the legal opinion of ordinary people of what this is all about. Another thing that I would also like to refer to, which is in the setting, is what has to do with distinctions and the reference price system. A unanimous committee refers to what is stated in the proposition that in connection with St.prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 will come back to the evaluation currently being carried out by ECON under the reference price system. The Council of States can confirm that it is also the objective of this government, so that an evaluation of the reference price system can soon be obtained, given perhaps reducing the enormous increases in self-interest that this system has caused to patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e657	I thank the representative Nesvik for his generosity that I cannot go into detail on all aspects of the proposal presented. But in this case, I can confirm that we will review both of the issues raised by the representative here and that the work on the evaluation of the reference price system is already under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e662	I thought I heard the Council of State in his statement said that he would consider making stricter professional demands to the pharmacists or to those who run the pharmacy, if anything were to do so. I don't know if the Council of State can say anything more about whether there was something special he was thinking about – there are quite a lot of specific demands in the proposition, both for the owner and for the pharmacist – whether it is actually the way the Minister of Health feels the need to have additional powers to make stricter professional demands, or whether I have misunderstood that there was nothing more in what he said, beyond what is in the proposition. That's the one. The second is what I had to say in my post: if the competition is to work from day one, it is important that the new Pharmacy Act can come into force as quickly as possible. While it is clear that there is a major regulatory work to be done in the ministry, some chapters are more important than others in order not to overemphasize the Apocalypse and its links until others escape and contribute to the competition to benefit consumers. Will the Council of State consider whether a faster entry into force is possible, at least in the form of a cap. 2 and 3, as suggested by the former Minister of Health, because he did suggest that it was not possible to make regulations in this area until July next year, i.e. in 2001 – if I remember correctly – and then it would take a very long time before something happens? That's my second question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e669	I did not have in mind the assessment of more stringent professional requirements than is provided for in the law, as it is now promoted. What I said was that if necessary, they will be strengthened in relation to how they actually are today, but that is, in my opinion, the basis of the bill. When it comes to the issue of entry into force, I can basically not say anything else about it now but that, of course, I will first of all look at what opportunities we have for the rapid entry into force of the law. The possibility that some parts of the law may be brought into force earlier than others should also be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e676	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e679	I will first apologize for not being present when I was called up instead. I would like to make some comments on the new Pharmacy Act. The recommended proposal for a new pharmacy law is correct and, in my view, also the necessary liberalisation and suspension of pharmacies. The law will have positive effects both for consumers and for society, but only if it allows it to function according to its intentions. On pages 21 and 22, the Committee expressed a very serious concern about chain formations. It is worrying that today’s pharmacists through their company Apocalypse are already actively working to impede competition from new players in advance of the law’s treatment in Stortinget. The apocalypse is a chained company that organizes almost 90 pst. by today's 392 pharmacy units. If the company is given time to implement its strategy, this will mean that today’s private pharmacy monopoly will mainly be maintained. This means that the efficiency and modernisation of the Norwegian pharmacy provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in the legislative proposal will be much more difficult to implement. Another aspect the Storting should note is that the Apocene has already taken ownership of the Finnish pharmaceutical wholesaler Tamro. Tamro is the dominant wholesaler in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, but also has significant activities in the Baltic region and North-West Russia. The members of the Apocalypse undertake to make their future purchases at Tamro, and the consequence is that the dominant monopoly of the Apocalypse at the pharmacy can quickly remove the economic basis of the other two drug wholesalers in Norway, if the Apocalypse’s strategy on strong market dominance succeeds through a concerted and coordinated behaviour of today’s pharmacists. It is therefore imperative that conditions should be created for effective competition in the pharmacies market. The Social Committee itself stresses that it is important for competition reasons that the law enters into force as soon as possible and that the department prioritises the regulatory work. The law also provides that the individual provisions of the law may enter into force at different times. Therefore, parts of the law covering the award of new pharmacies concessions should be brought into force as soon as practicable. I would like to stress just what the representative, Høegh, asked questions about in his reply to the Council of State. The Ministry proposes to practise a temporary concession ceiling in central districts. In particular, there is a shortage of pharmaceutical labour which has been the Ministry's justification for proposing such a concession ceiling initially. In this context, I think it is worth noting that it is mainly the number of prescriptions — and not necessarily the number of pharmacists — that determine the need for pharmacists in pharmacies. The number of prescriptions is not expected to increase as a result of a new pharmacy law. In this context, I think, for my part, that the proposed concession ceiling must be practiced very pragmatically. There is room for at least 150 new pharmacies in Norway when we compare ourselves with other countries. The Norwegian Apotheker Association itself says in its publication ‘Apothekene in text and figures for 1999’ that it is in favour of the creation of up to 250 new pharmacies. The ministry is also open to the award of new pharmacies concessions from 1 July 2000, so that we can have a real competitive situation in the pharmacies sector as soon as possible. I think it would be important, just to ensure that this is the case, that new pharmacies are awarded quickly. There are many things to say about the new Pharmacy Act, but perhaps the most important competitive advantage that can also be given to the other wholesalers now is that the law is being implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e700	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 392]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e714	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e725	The permanent reform means that all residents of Norway are entitled to a permanent doctor. This is a very important and comprehensive reform of primary medical care. It shall contribute to increased quality and better use of the total medical resources in the country. The introduction of the fixed medical device will have a major impact on the individual population. It is an important tool to strengthen patient rights. In particular, the reform will benefit patients who are in great need of medical attention. I am therefore pleased that a majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, supports the introduction of the permanent scheme. The members of the Committee from the Right and the Progressive Party support the principle that everyone who wishes to do so should be given a permanent doctor. However, these members believe that it is unfortunate to put in place a fixed medical device at a time when permanent doctors are lacking, and therefore that the scheme cannot be implemented throughout the country from the start. These members therefore propose that the permanent scheme be scrapped until further notice. The proposal to establish a fixed medical device, which we have to deal with today in Ot.prp. No 99 for 1998-99, based on St.meld. No 23 for 1996-97, Safety and accountability, About medical services in municipalities and the fixed medical system. This survey report was presented on the basis of experience gained from a three-year trial in four municipalities in the period 1993-96. In dealing with this big message, the majority of Stortinget laid down 13 main principles for further work. The work has been followed up by a separate project in the Ministry of Social and Health. The proposal to establish a fixed medical device has been consulted. Most hearing bodies have been positive about the implementation of the scheme. In order to implement the reform, close cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Municipal Councils of Central and Norwegian Medical Associations has been absolutely necessary. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the fact that the Ministry has placed great emphasis on the objections to the draft consultation and proposals for amendments. This cooperation is formalised through a cooperation body in which the Municipality of Oslo is also involved. The Parties have entered into an undertaking to negotiate an agreement on the establishment of local cooperation bodies, to establish a central framework on how the local individual agreements to be concluded between the municipality and the local authority should be – and to find solutions in the event of temporary lack of medical care. In the introduction of the fixed medical device, priority is given to the consideration of the population that is important. The permanent reform is a rights reform. Today, all citizens of this country are entitled to the necessary health care, necessary medical care, through the Local Health Service Act. The fixed medical system gives us an additional right – the right to have a permanent education. This right will also be governed by the Municipal Health Services Act – § 1-3, second paragraph. This right implies that the permanent doctor must give priority to me and the other residents on the doctor’s list. Everyone will have the right to change their permanents up to twice a year and be entitled to a new assessment by another permanents. Anyone who wishes to do so may be outside the fixed medical system. The system is a security reform. It provides the people with security. If I need medical care, either by contacting a doctor on my own or by requiring medical follow-up after discharge from a hospital or hospital, the reform means that I know who is obliged to accept and follow up. The reform also implies that a doctor is responsible for the individual’s record. This gives the individual doctor a good opportunity to get a complete picture of the patient’s health. The system is an availability reform. It will make it easier for citizens to have the necessary access to general medical care. I won't call any more doctors to ask in an hour. I know that my general practitioner must give me priority according to what is deemed necessary or professionally sound. The fixed medical system provides predictability for other parts of the healthcare system in cooperation with doctors and individual patients. It will contribute to the continuity of the medical-patient relationship and will lead to a better use of resources in healthcare. For municipalities, the introduction of the fixed medical device means that they have to negotiate and enter into an agreement with the individual permanent practitioner. The Christian People's Party is pleased that all general practitioners are given the opportunity to enter into a fixed-term agreement with the municipality, whether they have operating grants or one today. It is the municipalities that have the obligation to ensure that a permanent resident is awarded a permanent resident. When setting up the fixed medical system, municipalities have a unique chance of planning, possibly restructuring, their general medical services — especially in the case of inter-municipal medical care cooperation. The scheme also allows municipalities to acquire and systematise knowledge about patients and the production of services in the municipality’s primary health service. It is important that all municipalities enter into individual fixed-term contracts during the summer/harvest of 2000. In order to fulfil the rights of the fixed medical system, it is important that municipalities ensure that they make arrangements with a large number of doctors. The municipality must meet the need for temporary workers on long-term leave. The reform involves restructuring the general medical funding system – from operating grants to per capita grants. The decision-maker will receive a fixed grant per year. patients on their patient list. The per capita premium shall be equal to 30 pst. of the revenue. The remaining 70 pst. the income of general practitioners will be covered by social security disbursement and by the excess. The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that, through the introduction of the fixed medical system, we are facing a clear turn towards a funding system that rewards treatment activity financially. Local government expenditure will initially be cost neutral, unless the number of primary medical appointments has to be increased. For the doctors, the reform provides new opportunities. They are clearly defined who their patients are by receiving a patient list from the social security office. These patients should be given priority. The doctors are given the opportunity to plan and limit their working time. The reform opens up new forms of cooperation between doctors and provides doctors with security of absenteeism. The reform provides doctors with many interesting opportunities to systematise knowledge about their patients and follow patients for a long time. I would like to stress that doctors who work for daily research and education, or for example. military doctors, may have a permanent contract and work in a group practice. The doctors will, as today, have their practice as self-employed persons, but in smaller municipalities where it is desirable, the general practitioner may still be employed in a municipality. For those doctors who do not enter into a fixed medical contract, the right to reimbursement by the Rikstrygdeverket will be lost. In order to maximise the use of resources, it is a major challenge in healthcare to use the right level of individual tasks. The Christian People's Party sees it as right to impose referral obligations on specialist services in the second line also outside hospitals. The introduction of the fixed medical device also has its challenges. The main challenge is to get a sufficient number of general practitioners to enter into a fixed-term contract with the individual municipality, and not least to have a necessary geographical distribution of the doctors. Lack of medical coverage in primary health services is largely due to a high concentration of doctors in certain districts of the country. Many measures have been taken in recent years to increase the number of general practitioners. Education capacity has increased from 310 to 590 medical students per year. In addition, more than 1,000 Norwegian youths are studying medicine abroad. Recruitment of doctors from EEA countries is under way. In 1999, more than 200 doctors were recruited from different EEA countries. The medical market has become more stringently regulated. A new medical distribution system was introduced from 1.1.1999, which has prioritised new positions in primary health care as well as in psychiatry and cancer care. Few new medical homes are now being created in hospitals, which have been growing rapidly for a long time. In order to stimulate more doctors to work in the districts, different incentives have been put in place, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t pilot schemes for intermunicipal medical care cooperation guidance schemes for tour operators financial support for specialist training In order to stabilise the medical coverage in the districts, it will be necessary to reduce the workload in frequent medical care and to facilitate a greater level of income, whether fixed in Utrand-Norway or in a large city. The Christian People's Party, together with the majority of the Committee, therefore supports the proposal for a compensation scheme in municipalities with a small population. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that the public medical and social medical tasks are carried out. Many have feared that the public tasks of medical care in hospitals, school health services and health centres will become the losers in the fixed medical system. These challenges have been addressed by the fact that, through the process of concluding a fixed-term contract, a new opportunity for municipalities to put in place the public medical needs of general practitioners before the list length is established. It is positive that municipalities are given a statutory home the right to require their prescribers to take public medical care tasks in order to have a fixed medical appointment. The scope of the tasks shall be regulated in the fixed medical agreement of the individual. The forthcoming negotiations will determine the remuneration of these tasks. I believe that social medical work will be a major challenge – both the recruitment of this and the stability of these positions. But I would point out that social medicine will have new exciting challenges through the fixed medical system. The role and tasks of municipal you will have a new content. Municipalities should cooperate on full-time or part-time positions that can be shared between municipalities. Competitive wages will be important. Thus, the introduction of the permanent reform will take place on 1 January 2001 across the country. Where there is not enough medicine, the reform must be suspended in order to be implemented by adequate medical coverage. This is not ideal, but I think the reform is so positive for all those who can participate, that it cannot be postponed pending that absolutely the whole country can be included. Work in the municipalities in the future is becoming particularly important. Many municipalities have come a long way in preparation, while others have much left to do. It is important that the municipalities get an overview of the number of doctors who are entitled and want to enter into a permanent contract in the municipality, and how many doctors they need for the public medical work and for curative tasks. Preparations must start now, even if the parties negotiate beyond spring. I hope the GMP will make it attractive for doctors to work in the GMP. In Cuba, they called the family doctors "health guards". Knowing their list patients in different life situations makes the scheme an important factor in the prevention of health work. I look forward to the launch of a dynamic fixed medical system where patients' rights and needs are centered, but which is also positive for both doctors and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e806	In all material terms, SV has a similar view to that of the rapporteur. We are in favour of the fixed medical system and believe that it will be a good arrangement if you follow it up properly. But there is a comment from the majority that SV did not support, and there is a recital related to – let's say – the requirement for the decision maker. In the joint remark on which the Christian People’s Party is in the setting on page 15, the left column, the third paragraph, it is stated that the decision-maker should be available at least three days a week ‘for persons on his list’, as it says, and that it will improve ‘the availability of active workers if the doctor is available at least once a week in the evening’. I would like to ask the case rapporteur how this is to be understood. One of the major problems involved in recruiting doctors for the districts is that you feel that you are entering into such a commitment agreement and are getting so much work pressure that it will be difficult to combine it with a normal family situation. You can risk playing a game, for example. will be in a third watch, and if you would then perceive this with an evening list in addition as a form of commitment, then the evenings will disappear. Similarly, there may be a course to travel on. Is it right to understand what's standing here, so that a doctor like, for example, gone away, should the availability of their patients be ensured, for example, by making arrangements with a colleague, so that it does not mean the actual doctor? And in addition, when it comes to the evening list, it's a mild recommendation, but of course it has to be up to the individual doctor if he organizes his business so that he has an evening list.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e811	In the case of the comitology to which the representative of Ballo refers, the case applies in case of full-time practice. Then one believes that one should have access three times a week, and one also wants that there should be the possibility of keeping it open one night a week, so that people who are in work can get medical treatment in the evening. It is also in the proposition that doctors may have group practices, but then doctors must first enter into individual fixed-term contracts. It also opens up the possibility that a person may have a common list, and in order to cover a number of doctors who could not otherwise have been in a firm agreement, for example: military doctors, researchers, teachers, so that they can also use the resources they represent. That way, there will be more access to doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e818	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e821	Today, after many years of work, we can set the finish line for a fixed medical system in Norway. With today's decision, when we provide the final legal basis for a scheme covering all municipalities, this stems from the decision of the Stortinget in 1991 to initiate trials with the list patient system in the municipal health service, a three-year trial initiated in the spring of 1993 with four participating municipalities: Tromsø, Trondheim, Lillehammer and Åsnes. This included approx. 240 000 inhabitants and about 40 000 inhabitants. 150 armies. In St.meld. No 23 for 1996-97, to which the rapporteur referred, the experience of the experiment was then presented, with the Government's recommendation to establish a nationwide fixed medical system. A majority in the European Parliament agreed to carry out such a reform as is known. This reform is an important part of a coherent chain of health reforms. The first ‘patient’ was the clue to the reform, where the patient’s needs were the starting point for all treatment and care. Two main issues were fundamental. Firstly, the population shall have the security of medical care when the need arises. And secondly, health professionals and the public health service should take responsibility for the timely provision of good health care to patients. Although we have had a good primary health service in Norway over a period of time, with high quality and good accessibility, there is reason to ask whether the scheme we are about to leave has sufficiently committed both the doctor and the authorities to the individual patient. My and the bulk of the population answer is no. There is also reason to pay attention to, among other things. the following when reviewing the way we organise the primary health service: The development of medical knowledge gives us new opportunities to treat diseases. The medical services are different geographically distributed among us. Studies show that only every tenth consultation of GMP was found, assessed retrospectively, necessary in the sense that the patient had a disease that required treatment and could be treated. Nevertheless, there could be good reason to seek help. It is the general practitioner who treats the vast majority of patients and follows up patients over time. It is the general practitioner who can have a holistic view of patients. I have noticed that patients want a fixed medical system. I refer to, among others: positive statements from large patient associations and stakeholder organisations. I have also noticed that the health professionals, including the Norwegian Medical Association, want a fixed medical system. I also mention that the Municipalities' Central Association, which represents those responsible for primary health care, says that the fixed medical system will be a system consistent with the local authorities' and KS' views. The fixed medical system now adopted is based in part on the experience of the fixed medical system in some European countries, but mainly on the three-year test in the four Norwegian municipalities I mentioned earlier. In addition to evaluating the results of the experimental municipalities themselves, a total of five independent research communities have been committed to carrying out an ongoing evaluation. The conclusions of the trials are unambiguously positive. The best evidence is that almost all the residents wanted the fixed medical system to be made permanent. Only 7 pst. by the doctors expressed their dissatisfaction with the scheme. I think this is a very good basis for building on the reform. I don't think a fixed system solves every problem, because the perfect system isn't invented. I have noticed that the strongest critics outside the Storting were the doctors who had private business without agreement, but who could use public money entirely unregulated through social security mergers for their private business. I have to say that it is not unreasonable for public authorities to gain influence over their own money in order to contribute to the geographical distribution of such funds and thus medical labor. This may also be an effect of the fixed medical system. Although we have a medical service in the municipalities with which we can be satisfied in many ways, it is also too difficult for patients to get into. A doctor often meets a new doctor, the doctor has too little time, there are too many differences, it is unclear how helpful it is because no doctor is responsible for the individual, there is a poor overview for the municipality that is responsible, and there is a lack of control over the costs. There may be grounds to point out that the experience gained from the experiment, inter alia: show that psychiatric patients, young children’s parents, the elderly and others were satisfied with the fixed medical system because it gave continuity and good contact between patients and doctors. It is underlined in the proposition that the fixed medical system provides better opportunities for a closer interaction between primary health services and specialist health services. This is very important to achieve in an even better way than today, by, among other things. three reasons: 1st@item: inlistbox Closer contact between the primary physician and the hospital may increase the quality of the primary physician's work and may contribute to the examination and treatment of patients who are currently sent to a specialist.2. It will provide far greater professional security for the doctor. We have very many small municipalities, and therefore many doctors can feel both professionally isolated and difficult alone in a very demanding work. Professional contact with colleagues is important both for well-being and security. 3rd@item: inlistbox It will be socio-economically beneficial through less use of more highly specialised healthcare. A successful national medical system requires adequate and reasonably stable medical coverage. Justifiable questions arise as to whether the scheme can be implemented as intended, having regard to the lack of doctors in many municipalities. It's referred to that we have approx. 200 vacancies in the municipal health service, and that the fixed medical system may require up to 400 new jobs. I think we can be a little optimistic from among other things. the following, which was also referred to by the rapporteur: We now train a lot of doctors per year. years. In addition to those between 500 and 600 medical students that we train each year at national universities, the number of students who are educated abroad has increased greatly, from about 50 to 60. 200 to up to twice the last couple of years. A more stringent allocation of doctors to hospitals is under way in favour of primary health care. Recruitment takes place from abroad, both from Nordic countries, especially Denmark, and also from Germany. One must also have faith that when everyone who is to work for the money of the people must have an agreement with a municipality, this should over time work smoothing and lead to less concentration of the doctors. I would like to point out that, in the course of the review of the Single European Act in 1997, very clear leadership was given to targeted schemes for doctors in small municipalities and outreach municipalities. This has been very well followed up in the legislative proposal of the previous government and in the Committee's comments. I do not go into the details of the fixed medical system. The rapporteur of the case was in many of the arrangements that will apply to both patients, doctors and municipalities. I am aware that the preparation of the fixed medical system has been organised as a project under the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, where the project management has cooperated with stakeholders. Of what I can see from the proposals and assessments in the proposition and otherwise know, it must be in place today to give the responsible ones in this work very well deserved honor for very well done work on a matter that has not been at all simple. Through the work in Stortinget, I have recorded that the opponents of the reform and various special interests have probably recorded their views. Much of the practical arrangements and implementation are based on an agreement between the parties. I think that is right, and I assume that the intention of the fixed reform is fully respected, so that later detailed regulation by the Stortinget is not necessary. I think we are now embarking on a reform that significantly strengthens our health care system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e893	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e896	While processing the previous setting, Innst. S. No 215 for 1996-97, the representative Asmund Kristoffersen said the following: ‘I have noticed that the strongest critics other than the Storting are the doctors who have a private business without an agreement but who can use public money entirely unregulated through social security mergers for their private business. I have to say that it is not unreasonable for public authorities to gain influence over their own money in order to contribute to such funds and thus medical labor being fairly fairly distributed geographically. This is also an effect of the fixed medical system.» The same thing repeated the representative Asmund Kristoffersen in his post now, but it won't be more correct if he repeats it several times. I have the following three questions for the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen in relation to this opinion: 1st@item: inlistbox What is the professional difference between consulting a contract-less doctor or a doctor with an operating contract? 2nd@item: inlistbox What is meant by the public acquiring ‘power over own funds’? – is it not the case that patients are entitled to reimbursement for the medical consultation and not the doctor? 3rd@item: inlistbox Does the representative of Asmund Kristoffersen really think that the permanent scheme will contribute to a fairer geographical distribution of the general medical practitioners, which is currently in deficit? And how can the representative make such a claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e919	So the public spends a lot of money on health care. We may use too little, at least we can't fully meet the needs that seem to be present. It is also the case that much of the private practice that we had, at least until we had cases where we laid the foundation for a new contract policy, resulted in those doctors who had no obligation to the public in relation to participating in e.g. janitorial work or part of the community medical work had, to put it very simply, a direct suction tube into the social security fund by treating the patients they wanted to treat, and then they sent the bill to the people's pension for part of the fee. It was a completely curative arrangement that was fully legal. But it meant that one had very little control over exactly these means. Experience has shown that the doctors were located where most customers were ‘to graze on’. It meant that the distribution of doctors in Norway was very uneven, and that is what I took into account in what the representative Alvheim quoted me, and that I found every reason to repeat today. I have also partially answered the questions asked by the representative. I see no professional difference. I think that a private doctor is as competent as one who works in an addition relationship in a municipality, but it is important that patients have the security that they have a doctor to go to when the need is there, and it is also important that the public in this way governs the medical workforce where the needs of the population exist. In fact, I believe that the fixed medical system can help us to get a better distribution of the doctors over time, as each doctor has to make an agreement with the different municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e924	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e927	Odelstinget is today invited to adopt an extensive law of jurisdiction in which the practical consequences of the law in relation to the patient, the decreer and the Riksstrøgdeverket have not been clarified between the negotiating parties, the State, the Norwegian Medical Association and the KS. Despite one year's postponement of the reform, the former government has not agreed to follow up the following facts and have them clarified before the Odelstinget is invited to adopt the law: Will it include, among others: are referrals to a specialist carried out, as required by the association of General Practitioners? What additional costs will a patient who is looking for a specialist and who does not have a regular doctor have to pay? What costs will a patient who chooses to be outside the fixed medical scheme pay for consultation with a permanent doctor or other doctor? How are the socio-medical tasks to be tackled in practice? What should medical care and financial arrangements be like in the municipalities that have to be suspended from the scheme from the start? How should the medical care system be practised in the context of the permanent reform? None of this is clear when Odelstinget is invited to make a decision, and before the law is implemented. The condition for the functioning of the intended fixed medical device is that a sufficient number of medical devices are available. The lack of general practitioners in the municipalities is now much greater than it was on 11 June 1997, when the majority of Storting decided to introduce this scheme. It is bold – perhaps at the very edge of what is right – that the Government and the majority in Odelstinget today will be trottering through a fixed system where a significant number of municipalities will initially have to be suspended from the scheme of lack of general practitioners from the start. This creates confusion and uncertainty around the whole system. In my view, the decision to introduce the fixed medical scheme in 1997 has contributed greatly to the transition from the general medical profession that we have seen in the last two years. Of course, the municipalities, which are responsible for primary health services, have not been particularly interested in setting up new general medical posts and in recruiting doctors in the posts that have been set up, given the fixed medical system, where municipalities are exempted from a significant proportion of the expenditure. To claim that an increase in the number of hospital doctors should be the cause of general medical shortages, as both the department and the majority in this case try to produce it, is not correct in my opinion. It might be interesting to ask the majority if they really believe that there are more than enough specialists in our public hospitals. There are not many days since the hospitals went out and claimed that they lacked up to 1000 specialists to carry out the service they are going to perform in hospitals. Former Minister of Health Gudmund Hernes, who is also the father of the fast medical system, launched in his time as the Council of State the concept of the patient first. This concept is particularly bad in relation to the law we are dealing with today, where, for example, the right to free choice is reduced, as is the right of the patient to social security. Here it is not the patient who is in focus, but the future main function of the caretaker as a gatekeeper. The decision-maker is given an important function as a health bureaucrat, with stronger regulation of patients and control of expenditure as an essential task. The fixed medical system is, as I see it, a public monopoly of medical services and a further socialisation of primary health services – aside from the free choice of doctors, more or less the ban on self-employed medicine. The majority go the opposite way to what the Stortinget has done with regard to the second line service, namely stronger user involvement and free hospital choice. In my opinion, decision-makers become more medical officials who work according to public instructions, with the aim of reducing patient availability in order to save public expenditure. As I see it, and the Progress Party sees it, the implementation of the fixed medical system will further speed up private health insurance, which has already gained considerable scope. This will allow general practitioners to establish themselves as free, contractless doctors without social security suspension, with full coverage from patients’ private health insurance. I don't know if the majority thinks this is a desirable development. The majority otherwise have the tradition of putting all kinds of obstacles in the way of private medicine and health services. It is surprising to me to note that a large majority of the members of the Association of General Practising Doctors are in favour of the fixed medical system. I am equally surprised that the Norwegian Medical Association has agreed to the arrangement. What's the reason for this? Is this due to tactical economic reasons? Forced medical selection may not be in the interest of the general practitioner, nor in the interest of the Medical Association. The patient-medical relationship may be increased when the prescriber has to treat a patient who initially did not want to be treated by this doctor. Most Norwegian citizens today have a fixed general medical relationship where there is sufficient medical coverage. This applies not least to families with children and chroniclers. The majority of those who have not established a fixed medical condition have not been able to do this either, precisely because of lack of doctors — and the fixed medical system does not supply any more doctors to the municipalities. The present legislative proposal is a very far-reaching law on powers, in which most of the practical implementation and follow-up of the statutory system is to be regulated by legislation based on agreements between the State, the Medical Association and the KS, agreements that have not yet been negotiated and, as far as I know, there are major problems in getting finalised within the right time. Users/patients are not parties to the negotiations. It is not common for regulations to be passed on to the Stortinget, but this law will cover the entire Norwegian people in a special way that relates to their health. The Progress Party has proposed, in the present position, that the rules and regulations be fully submitted to the Stortinget before the law can be brought into force. One of the most serious estimates of patients’ free choice of doctor is that, in the opinion of the Advance Party, the change of permanent staff is limited to twice a year. We cannot accept this at all, and have a proposal in the setting that says that the patient can change his mind at any time. Another very important principle that the Progress Party advocates in the present position is that the patient rights of the fixed medical system should be regulated by the Patient Rights Act, which is a single law for the whole healthcare system, be it second-line or primary healthcare. Another proposal The Progress Party has in the present position is the proposal that patients who choose to stand outside the fixed medical system and use other doctors should have the same proportions and reimbursement as fixed patient, and should be able to carry their specialities on the free card. Another principle of the Progress Party is in the present position, is that there should be no obstacles to the exercise of the free profession of medicine, so that it should be allowed for general practitioners to establish practices of social security suspension wherever they wish in the country. This is, in fact, the lifting of a decision taken by the Stortinget in 1992, which bans social security redeployment for contractless medical practitioners who started practice after 10 October 1992. Finally, it is an important principle that the Progress Party stands for in its position, namely that for children who are temporarily under the care of child protection, parents should contribute to the choice of permanent workers if the parental right is not waived. It's obvious that you're reporting in St. Announcer. No 23 for 1996-97, which launched the fixed medical system, as well as the current legislative proposal and in the majority’s position, believe that Norwegian citizens go to a doctor too often, and that this must be limited by means of a fixed medical system, where the principal task of the decision may be the gatekeeper function. Thus, the stipulation now suggests that it is not the patient’s wish to come to the doctor that is to apply hereafter, but whether or not the stipulator agrees with a consultation or referral to a specialist. I have to say that I do not understand that the majority dare to take responsibility for this scheme, where patients will no longer have an independent right to seek medical advice based on their own assessments, their own symptoms and their own needs. Unfortunately, during the examination of the present proposal, the Social Committee has not been given concrete factual information on the operation of medical care systems and on how this should be done in practice. I have registered that in several municipalities and cities they have almost stopped driving on a medical visit, but instead require patients to attend the medical service. In many cases it may be practical, but in some cases it may be directly life-threatening, and there are also several examples of death in such situations. A minimum requirement for the medical care system in this new scheme is that the patient and the patient's family must have direct contact with the doctor and must not go through a more or less incompetent secretary. In my opinion, it is not satisfactory that a request for medical attention to the medical officer should only be assessed by other personnel, which unfortunately is often carried out at Norwegian medical centres in the municipalities today. The party to the progress has been involved in the Committee's proceedings in several majority comments where there are positive points in terms of better organisation of the scheme in relation to both the notification and the proposal. We have also promoted several individual proposals that we believe are extremely important from the patient's point of view, which, in my opinion, are the most important. Unfortunately, the majority did not want to support any of the proposals of the Progress Party, and the Progress Party has therefore also concluded this time that we will vote against the whole of the law. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals on which the Progress Party is with other parties, and our own proposals in the vote, with the exception of proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e990	The representative Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e995	Many important tasks of the fixedlegislation must be regulated by regulation. It concerns medical care and the availability of emergency services to general practitioners, public medical work and counselling by medical practitioners. Rules for the establishment of lists are also proposed in regulation. For this reason, the Government of Bondevik sent out the regulations as an annex to the consultation documents and the draft regulations are annexed to the current proposal, where these tasks are described. Then it is with great wonder that I read the comment of the Progress Party in the setting where it says that the regulations are unknown to Odelstinget. And the same party promotes the following proposal, No. 3rd@item: inlistbox ‘The decision asks the Government, before the scheme enters into force, to submit the regulations of the Storting scheme.’ Does not the representative Alvheim think that this is big business and too much detail management on the part of Stortinget? Does the Progress Party believe that regulations should be sent to the Stortinget several times? And finally, is the representative not afraid that this will lead to delays in the process when the parties are to start negotiations on tariffs and individual agreements for the doctors who want to participate in the scheme and cannot prevent detailed regulations from preventing local adjustments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1007	The essential part of the legislation governing this fixed medical device has not yet been adopted and accepted by the contracting parties, so that none of us in the room today knows how this will work in practice when the scheme is to be implemented. I know that until today there are major problems between the different negotiating parties as to whether or not you can get to this. Then you can't say that the rules are at the proposition and the setting. They may be substantially altered when the final outcome of the negotiations is available; there are the number of patients on lists, concerning the suspension of municipalities, and not least how to set up and implement in practice a new medical watch regime in connection with the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1012	The Social Committee visited Cuba in January of this year. In the same way as the committee leader, SV thinks it was a very profitable stay. We got a look at the family medical system, which is widespread in Cuba, and as the committee leader in one speech came with a very strong degree of honor. He has also praised the models chosen by the Cuban health system and the learning effect here on Norway, thus stamping what was seen in Cuba. The family medical system in Cuba is, of course, in many ways a permanent scheme under Cuban conditions, which ensures an offer to the population, and which clearly is one's permanent doctor. It surprises me, therefore, that the Progress Party, when you are back on Norwegian soil, mobilises resistance to a system that is famous in other countries. The post held by the Progress Party v/the committee leader here reminds us very much of ‘Hello this week’, where you call an alarm every week at Sture Hansen, and it is clear that the Progress Party wants to play that role in terms of the fixed medical system, until it is well and beautifully carried out. In addition, when talking about changes in the public health system, the fixed medical system is in many ways a privatisation reform. The doctors will then have a greater degree of freedom to organise their own practices, but of course, because they are public funds, under the control of the public. I would like to ask the committee leader what is the reason for the very strong resistance of the Advance Party to the fixed-line reform, when, in another country, this kind of organisation of the health care system is celebrated and just argues that there are models we have a lot to learn from in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1023	I still stand by what I said about the Cuban health system. When I was impressed by it, it was both professionally and not least about how this poor country had managed to prioritize its health care system in relation to Norway as a rich country that has not done so in the same way. Now it is not possible to transfer the health system in Cuba to Norway, nor can there be any similarity between the family medical system and the fixed reform that exists here. Because from the system in Cuba, you didn't have a choice, you were going to be with your family doctor. It is the individual’s free choice that also comes in here, and in this context the individual’s right – free right – to choose the doctor you would like. That is the main accusation made by the Party of Advancement against the permanent scheme. And it's not just the Progress Party that is opposed to this system; we find that far into the trade unions. And if that's allowed, I'm going to be allowed to quote what the local councillor in Sola, one of Olav Gunnar Ballo's colleagues, said yesterday in Stavanger Aftenblad. He said the following: ‘The fast-track system is political nonsense.’ I don't want to use that kind of word, and it's not that bad, but there's a lot of important things in the fixed medical system that deprive me of my right as a patient when I'm going to choose a doctor, and when I want to switch doctors, and if I don't follow the order, I'm going to be punished on my purse. That can be neither solidarity nor justice!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1034	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1037	Let me first of all make it clear in and of course that the Right supports the idea that everyone who wants it should have the right to have a fixed doctor. What makes us not supporting today's bill is that we think it's pointless, inconsistent and paradoxical that, at the same time as you want to impose all this principle, whether they have a desire for a fixed medical condition or not, you take away those who may need it the most, the opportunity to get it. Because at the same moment as this law is to be implemented – if the majority is aware that it will take place on 1 January 2001 – a large number of municipalities, not least district municipalities, will probably have to be suspended from the scheme, because it is not possible to implement it where it was most needed. That is why we ask the question: is it responsible to vote for a principle that cannot be implemented throughout the country? The rapporteur said she didn't think it was that dangerous. The most important thing was the principle, I got the impression. For the Right, the principles are not more important than reality. It's the reality that has to govern our everyday lives. If this principle cannot be implemented in such a way that everyone can enjoy it, wait and concentrate on improving the general medical coverage and stability of the general medical service where there is the worst — and that is largely in District Norway. There will not be a single general practitioner/determine any more of the fact that the Storting today adopts a principle that everyone should have the right to permanent employment. Yes, on the contrary, it can exacerbate the situation. I'll come back to that. According to the National Council for Medical Distribution, we lack about 650 medical facilities, others have talked about between 400 and 600. In any case, there are large numbers, so that the law has to be suspended in many municipalities when it is implemented. And what effect will this have on people’s confidence in political decisions? I think we're creating expectations for the patients that they're quick to see are not being met. If this becomes a new paper determination in line with the waiting time guarantee, we – at least the majority – are involved in increasing the basis for public health mistrust and political decisions in general. I would very strongly warn against going further that way. The trust in public health is scant enough as it is, and although the Right is among those who are in the brink of wanting private welcome as contributors, including private people who choose to stand outside government grant schemes, we all have a responsibility – and the Right would like to be in it – to make the public health service as much as possible and give patients and individuals in our country reason to have faith in our public health system. So we're not advocating the fixed medical system today, because it won't be possible to introduce it. But there are also other reasons why we're skeptical. It depends on the fact that, as it now stands, a law of authority – which was also in the hands of the committee leader – is largely not known and fully controlled by the Storting; it is up to the parties in the negotiations to reach agreement. It is to a large extent in character, we believe, by limiting and controlling doctors and patients more than by the law you try to sell it as, because we do not get a situation where too few doctors in general medical care become more doctors in general medical practice by adopting the law that the majority wants today. On the contrary, it can lead to the very opposite result, that more doctors are needed in densely constructed strokes, and it will lead to fewer doctors on the outskirts. As I have said, the Right therefore goes against the law. We want the law to be curtailed in its present form until further notice, and to concentrate efforts to improve and stabilise medical coverage especially in outstretched areas. The majority's proposal fears I will lead to a dilution also of the search for the general medical service. Asmund Kristoffersen said today that studies have shown that up to every 10 consultations proved unnecessary in the ex-post investigation – not unnecessarily in the sense that there could be no need for help, but unnecessary in relation to medical visits. Yes, I fear that with today's law that number will rise dramatically. For so far, it has actually been such that large parts of our population have shown some restraint in going to the doctor for less distress. Yes, many have deliberately gone to a doctor without an agreement in the case of more trivial things, or in the case of medical checkups. Many have thought it was okay to pay for themselves. But that restraint I think is now in danger of becoming a fairy tale. On a small point, I do not entirely agree with the chairman of the committee. He said that most people have regular medical contacts. No, it is a good part of our country that does not have regular medical contact because they feel that they do not need it. I'm an example of that myself. It may not be so representative, but many are in my situation – adults, mostly healthy people who don't have a regular doctor because they haven't needed it. But when these get a fixed doctor, they get their own doctor, well, I guess that picture will change. Then you will feel that you have the right to see this doctor once or two a year, because what you went to others for. So I fear that we will increase the need for general medical services with the system adopted today. Demand for medical services will increase, perhaps primarily from those who least need it. That's what I think the majority should be anxious about now that they're doing what they're doing. It's also right, as the representative Alvheim pointed out, that we're kind of going the opposite way in the general medical service of what we've done and finally got into the specialist health service. We introduce about the same time free choice of hospitals and restrictions on applying for general medical care. It doesn't rhyme very well. Nevertheless, I have to say that if you first go in and consider the proposal, if not so much the bill, because there are only a few words, but the guidelines that are going to be in the regulations, we are going a step in the right direction in relation to what was Gudmund Hernes' proposal a few years ago, because it was primarily a proposal that would control the doctor and through the patients. Nevertheless, the Right believes that the proposal that has now been promoted, or the consequences of it through the regulations and negotiations between the parties, will make the general practitioners too much a gatekeeper and too little a door opener for the patients. It is, as Alvheim was also involved, an extensive law of jurisdiction. It's almost just the word ‘fixed’ that's inserted into the municipal health service law, and then there's a few, albeit well-chosen, words about patients' rights. This means that Stortinget adopts a principle without being able to guarantee its implementation. I think that's unfortunate for the public's confidence in medical services, general medical services in particular and the public health services in general. I am therefore addressing the proposal that the Right, together with the Progress Party, has promoted, to scrape the system of fixed medical prescriptions up until now, and with a very strong call for the majority and the Minister of Health, in particular, to clarify the work, and to focus on improving and stabilising general medical coverage throughout the country, but especially in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1058	Annelise Höegh has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1064	I noticed that the representative Annelise Höegh described a new reality that will come over us, where you will get a consumption pattern in the population that will be completely changed because they are then aware of which doctor they have to contact. That is what I think to be an eye-catching consideration, because it should mean that the lack of clarity about the organisation until now has caused many people not to contact a doctor. In that case, it must be a desired effect. But the system exists, for example. exist in Denmark for a number of years, and a pilot scheme has also been in place in a number of Norwegian municipalities: Tromsø, Trondheim and Lillehammer, to name a few. The experience of Tromsø has been that there has been a much more stable medical coverage among general practitioners and that the waiting lists for doctors have disappeared. It must be the experience that you have, both from other countries and from Norway, which must provide the basis for what you can believe in the future. I want to ask Annelise Höegh: when she then gives a description of a possible future that totally deviates from this, what kind of basis is it that the representative has to come up with that kind of outlook? Is there any experience from other countries or from any of the municipalities involved in the pilot scheme that would allow such descriptions to be provided?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1071	It is any representative free to express the confusion that reigns in his inner, said great-grand President Hambro once, and perhaps also for the wonder that reigns in his inner. I have hurt to understand that the representative Ballo should be so amazed at what I said now. I think maybe he misunderstood some of my considerations about changes in the consumption pattern. I did not say anything about the reason that many people today are not aware of the organisation of the general medical service. But I think many have found that they will not burden the public health system with their plagues, lacks and more or less great needs, and have chosen to go to other doctors, also because it is difficult to get to. But when you get a fixed doctor, I think you have to be relatively naive if you don't see that it can lead to a much greater medical need, and that you're actually looking to meet your needs in the public fast medical system, as opposed to before you were assigned a regular doctor. One thing is that you do not actively seek a fixed medical condition, something else is to say no to getting an offer for a permanent doctor. So I think that many of those who today are dealing with either not going to a doctor, or looking for a doctor outside the public, won't do that when they get an offer to a doctor. And then I don't think it's quite right to refer to the situation in Denmark, neither in Denmark nor in England, but they've practiced it in a completely different and much more liberal way than what's being put up for here in the country. In fact, there is much more confidence in the doctors, they have shown confidence in the doctors, by allowing them to regulate the medical services in the way they find most practical for themselves and their patients, even without the detailed intervention of the municipality, and it has also been shown that they are doing. It's just the controlling and controlling way you're thinking about doing it here, that makes us skeptical.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1080	I have had doubts about a positive attitude towards the fixed medical system, and it has been important to me that the fixed medical system proposed today has broad support from the doctors as well. It is clear that this law itself does not increase the supply of doctors to general practice, but I would think that when there is a law in place that regulates this, the security of this would seem more recruiting than the uncertainty we have had so far. And then we also have a national council that has taken this into account and restricted the creation of a position in hospitals for the benefit of general medical positions. There were interesting reflections on the use and non-use of medical services in the line-up between Annelise Höegh and Olav Gunnar Ballo. I'm not going to deal with the question of Annelise Höegh, and for that matter, the undersigned, who has no qualifications, will become a user or abuser of medical services in the future. However, the Progress Party has a proposal for the right to choose new ones when it is desirable and necessary, as it is said. And the representative Alvheim said that it's not enough to be able to change the fixed twice per. years. The right does not support this proposal by the Progress Party, but has expressed in a note a concern that this law denotes a development away from the free choice of medicine. So I asked the representative, Hoegh, if you have any idea how often you should be able to change your doctor per day. years – twice per year. years, three times per. years or more?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1089	It was interesting to hear that the representative Naess had doubts. I have great respect for that, because – as you will also see from the previous reading, that is, when Gudmund Hernes' proposal was up for consideration, and the Christian People's Party through discussions with the Workers' Party or vice versa helped to change the essential parts of what was proposed at the time – we in the Right have also thought and doubted in relation to the system. It has a lot in common with everyone who is concerned that our population should have the best possible GMP. But we've doubted a different conclusion, not because we disagree in principle, but, as I said, because we fear that adopting a principle can actually have a negative effect. Firstly, and that is the most important thing, because we lack as many doctors as we do, and secondly because there are aspects to this proposal – to which we are sceptical, to which I have been subjected – that are of a regulatory nature. We are hoped that the representative Næss will have the right to adopt this principle by recruitment. I hope so, since the principle is adopted. But I'm in doubt. Then to the many proposals of the Progress Party. The reason why the Right does not agree with them is that we have not gone into the comments – at least to a very small extent – the concrete design of the proposition and the law. But exactly what the representative said here, that you have to be able to change your doctor when you feel you need it – that’s what it says – I think we’ll support it when we get to the vote, not because I or Right have the view that patients should change their doctor as often as possible, of course not. The best thing is to have a good, stable and sustained medical condition. It'll be up to the individual patient to figure it out. If you are so unhappy that you come to a little nice or little doctor after a time, you must have the right to change as often as you think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1098	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The scheduled time for this morning’s meeting is now over. The President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1103	As mentioned earlier, in 1997 the Stortinget adopted the establishment of a fixed medical system. And so the odelstingsproposition we're dealing with today is the central government's proposal for changes to the municipal health service law and other laws on how to implement and follow up this system. The main point of the fixed medical system is that each municipality has obligations to provide access to permanent staff for those who wish to do so. The scheme will help to ensure that each doctor can and will, in my opinion, become a better doctor, for – bureaucratically expressed – a more efficient management of his patient portfolio. And of course, patients get the benefit of knowing the medical history, and so you can have and develop a relationship of trust. The proposal continues the principle of free choice but with some minor limitations. The patient can also choose between municipalities. Patients are entitled to change their regulars up to two times per day. years, and in addition, the patient is entitled to ‘second opinion’. This should ensure that the patient finds out about a doctor he trusts, who is professionally on high. The centre party did not belong to the majority that supported the decision establishing the permanent medical scheme during the previous wholesale period. The reason for this was not primarily that the party was a fundamental opponent of a fixed medical system, but we were strongly in doubt as to whether the prerequisites for such a system to be good were present. Our concerns were, in particular, about the fixed system in the districts and the opportunities and challenges that were involved in ensuring adequate numbers of doctors. The central government proposed a number of measures to ensure the permanent system and the provision of services in the districts as well. This is to be followed up: access to doctors is to be increased; a new medical distribution system is to be established; fewer new medical posts are to be set up; a net access to doctors both Norwegian and foreign; and, in addition, priority should be given to municipal health services in the award of new medical positions; and financial support should be provided for specialist training in some action municipalities – to mention some of the measures. Another concern is the challenges posed by the introduction of the fixed medical system in major cities. The fact that the participation of the doctor in the public medical work is intended to strengthen the scheme may be linked as a condition to the fixed-term contract. The decision is then given more resources to attract. Furthermore, access to fixed-term pay as a form of association to solve curative tasks becomes an important balancing contribution to doctors who have particularly time-consuming patients, due to, for example, language problems and cultural differences. The centre party sees that most of our appeal points have been met to such an extent that we can recommend that the fixed medical system be established as described in the proposal and in the setting, and thus applied from New Year 2001. Of course, we assume that the unresolved issues mentioned in the debate in the past will be clarified, and we will, of course, also follow this matter with great vigilance to ensure that the offer is made according to the intention, better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1120	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1123	In this case, too, as in the enforcement case against people with mental retardation, the centre party has turned from opposition to position, which the centre party was in until recently. The centre party rejected the fast medical scheme at Innst. S. No 215 for 1996-1997, and the representative None Kvalbukt spoke in the debate as follows: ‘We must respect the fact that both patients and doctors are different and that in order to have a good medical offer, there must be trust between doctor and patient.’ Statutory doctors do not make up for free medical selection in full, and many patients are given a doctor they did not initially want. Will not the problem of medical trust and patient trust be the same today as it was when the fixed medical system was adopted in 1997, or does the representative Lahnstein consider that the trust between doctor and patient is no longer so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1133	I believe that the trust between doctor and patient is essential in order to have a good treatment situation, and a good trust relationship is essential. So that's the question of whether the Center Party has changed view from opposition to position. It happens; this is the system. And if Alvheim had belonged to a party that had been under government responsibility, he would also have been in situations where one has to adjust previous views in order to come up with a coherent solution and present a comprehensive policy from a cooperative government. With regard to this matter, I explained in my article what counter-representations we had. It is also the case in government cooperation that efforts must be made to moderate or correct the proposal, so that the considerations for which we are concerned — in this case, among others. district medical coverage – is well-managed. In my opinion, therefore, the proposals we are now following up on the 1997 decision are so that I can recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists support this scheme. I would also like to repeat that of course this must be followed with vigilance, so that we can see whether the objectives we have set on the scheme are well achieved. Otherwise, I would say that the fixed medical system has a lot of the thinking from the old home medical system, and that was a very good arrangement. But we are living in a different time, and I think that there are great challenges to the follow-up of the system to see that it can work just by rebuilding the trust between doctor and patient, which I see as fundamental in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1144	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1147	It's an important day today, since we're finalizing the permanent scheme here in Odelstinget. And it's perhaps a day that should have received more attention in relation to the consequences it could have in Norwegian municipalities. Looking at major reforms that have taken place in the Norwegian health system, it will be seen that the Municipal Health Service Act, introduced in 1982, was a very important reform for municipalities. For very many years, the municipal health law has worked both according to the intention and has been successful also in the case of local municipal doctors in Norwegian municipalities. Unfortunately, there have been developments in recent years in the municipalities where it has been difficult to recruit doctors to the municipalities, and it has been difficult to establish stable conditions. Therefore, I think it is quite surprising when the Right Party and the Advance Party in particular argue that one should wait until an improved situation has been found in Norwegian municipalities before taking action that represents the fixed reform. It would be something like saying that you should wait to make dinner until it was finished. Obviously, it doesn't lead to any results if you don't get to grips with the situation in the municipalities in some way and do something with it. If the Progress Party and the Right had always been on the pulpit or in various contexts made suggestions to do something about the situation in the municipalities, they would at least have had a lack of credibility when they now argue so strongly against the stipulations, but it does not have the two parties in truth. On the contrary, the centralisation that has taken place in the case of health professionals, and in particular doctors in Norway, is very much dependent on the release in the market, so that there has been no control over developments. And it is not without reason that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are so concerned about relieving market forces as a major reason for getting the situation they have received. But now leave it. At least it is very positive that the signals from the bulk population are so clear, and that you get started with the new year's fixation. SV is on the essential points in the majority position, but has chosen to make its own comments in some places. The experience in many municipalities today in recruiting and stabilising doctors is that some doctors feel that the freedom to organise their own activities is too limited. And then I think you're going to be very careful to put in a kind of leadership that becomes detailed on how to practice, whether you're going to have a list in the evening or whether you're going to have that list and so many times a week, provided that the main intention of the law is to ensure that patients get their regular doctor and that the doctor is available in an appropriate way and in a way that patients are satisfied with. So the kind of notes where you talk about a minimum number of lists and evening list, SV and I will warn you about. What's a little surprising, in parentheses, is that the Progress Party, which is opposed to the whole system, joins the kind of notes that are a detailed regulation of a system that you're opposed to. One of the reasons why we go against the system is that we just have to avoid detailed regulation, so here the Progress Party has a problem. I hope when the scheme is implemented, that the department will follow closely what is happening in terms of recruitment outside the municipalities, because it is obvious that the scheme will succeed, it must be followed up with differentiated instruments. You have to put a special search light on municipalities where you have had problems with recruitment, and where you have to expect that there will be problems in the cooling system. It will be in everyone's interest for this to be a successful reform, and that means you can't look at the bill alone to expect it to be successful. It is entirely dependent on different instruments being followed over time on the basis of the experience gained when the scheme is now implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1168	During the pouring process at Innst. S. No 215 for 1996-97 in June 1997 the then representative Magnar Sortåsløkken of SV stated the following: ‘There have been some improvements to the system through the treatment in the Committee, but at one point SV distinguishes teams with the Workers’ Party and the Christian People’s Party. The Government has proposed a 50/50 distribution financing scheme between basic grants and reimbursement/principle, so-called unit price. The working party and the Christian People's Party have entered into a model with 30/70 distribution, i.e. 70 pst. piece price, otherwise a model that will be far on the road will be the same as the Right and the Advance Party will enter.’» I have not noticed during the committee discussion that the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo from SV has made proposals to change the distribution of fractions in terms of the income of the decision maker. Does it now mean that the Socialist Left Party accepts the distribution contained in the proposition, and is this because it is now a general practitioner representing the Socialist Left Party in the Committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1180	It has been important for SV that the majority is as broad as possible and as comprehensive as possible. There will be an ongoing evaluation in the ministry of the nature of the outcome of this scheme, and when SV sees it being taken care of, we have not considered it appropriate to make any particular comment on the point that Alvheim is asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1185	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1188	The Bill Stortinget will take a decision on today is one of the biggest reforms in Norwegian healthcare in the last 20 years. The reform concerns all residents in Norway, all the municipalities of the country, all general practitioners and their employees and the social security system. For citizens, a rights reform is intended to contribute to the safety and accessibility of general medical care and to ensure continuity of medical/patient relationships. In addition, the reform involves a shift in the organisation and financing of the general medical service. Overall, this will help to make better use of the knowledge and capacity of doctors in Norway. There has been some frustration in primary medical care in recent years. Many of the stable doctors in the district municipalities have stopped. There have been failures in recent recruitment and uncertainties about what a nationwide fixed medical system will mean. Through the permanent reform, the primary medical service will have a professional and organisational boost. Municipalities shall facilitate the provision of a primary medical service to be further developed in a fixed medical system. The Ministry will closely monitor the preparation of municipalities for the implementation of the reform. The strongest counter-representation against the introduction of the reform has been linked to the problems of lack of doctors. Let me therefore state that the fixed reform itself will neither provide more nor fewer doctors in Norway. However, the preparations for the reform have made the medical needs of primary health care more visible. We face two important challenges: one is the rich municipalities with too few medical homes. These have been particularly encouraged to invite the non-contractual doctors to cooperate in the planning of the reform. In several municipalities, cooperation has shown that the medical needs will be met without the need to obtain new doctors. Other municipalities have applied for new medical homes. The second major challenge is the medical situation in small municipalities with unemployment and instability. The Odelstingsproposition describes the incentives put in place to increase recruitment and ensure stability. I would like to stress that the Ministry's efforts in the future will be directed more towards ensuring stability through the development of professional resource environments and general professional development in primary medical care. This requires cooperation between primary medical services and research environments, in particular the medical faculty. The Ministry has contributed to the launching of such development work in the northernmost counties. Incentives will have a long-term perspective. It will be the overall impact of measures for professional development, a good regulatory regime, increased access to doctors and regulation of the medical market that together will contribute to the development of primary medical care in a direction that will benefit the entire population. It is important that all municipalities prepare for the implementation of the reform, whether or not the municipality has a lack of a body. I believe that the municipalities, in cooperation with the doctors, will extend far in order to obtain time-limited solutions in areas of physical deficiency. The Ministry will closely follow the medical market and be in dialogue with the municipal sector on issues arising from the introduction of the reform. We have a tight time frame for the reform to be implemented from 1 January 2001. The Ministry has placed great emphasis on commitment to cooperation with the municipal sector and with the Medical Association in planning. The result of the cooperation is inter alia: that all parties are essentially behind the proposal now before the Stortinget. This provides a good basis for the forthcoming negotiations. The reform has in the past been put at risk. We don't deserve any more postponements. I therefore look forward to the adoption today of the necessary legislative changes to enable negotiations to begin and to the completion of the implementation planning for 1 January 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1212	Although our new health minister has not stood by the bill we are dealing with today, I would like to elaborate on a few issues. The provisional list-tack according to the setting is set to 1500 patients per. firm. Now it's like a lot of general practitioners today have a number of patients who are beyond a double of this. So there are general practitioners who have up to 2,500 and 3,000 patients in their portfolio. My first question to the Minister of Health will then be: How are the list doctors who at the beginning of the scheme have a lot of patients to cut? To what extent will patients themselves be taken on board in this context? It is set up to ensure that the decision-maker is responsible for patients 52 weeks a year, including leave, sick leave, etc. My second question to the Minister of Health will then be as follows: How has it been thought that this scheme should work in smaller municipalities where only one or two doctors are available? And how can you really believe that the new fixed medical system should be able to recruit general practitioners to the municipalities with this responsibility and this workload?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1223	I must admit that my ability to answer concretely and directly the questions asked by the representative Alvheim is somewhat limited. Firstly, I would like to say that much needs to be clarified through the negotiations which are now assumed to take place immediately after the law has been passed. With regard to the last question raised by Alvheim, it has been suggested that cooperation across municipal borders should be possible in cases where this proves to be a major problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1232	I think it was interesting and important that the Minister of Health also went a little bit into the counter-representations of this law, and the ability to put it into practice in a good way. But he said quite bombasticly that since the reform has been postponed in the past, we are not served with further postponements. Then I asked myself, "Who are we?" Is it all the patients who think they get a right that they are disappointed that they don't get, or are we politicians, we health bureaucrats, who don't deserve it? Let me put it this way: I think the most important thing is that we ensure a good and stable general care provision for children, for disabled people, for other chroniclers and for the elderly. It is those who have the largest consumption of healthcare, general medical services, and they should have the security to get it. But what I'm afraid we're doing is we're doing the opposite. We give a right to everyone, who can actually make it harder to give it to those who need it the most. So I ask the question to the Minister of Health: will he consider whether it is not wrong to sit in the situation that you might suspend the entire population of many small municipalities from getting this right, instead of suspending parts of the population that do not have the great need for help – that is, will he be willing to assess whether there are no children, disabled people, groups of chroniclers and the elderly who are primarily in need of this permanent scheme? And then we're going to take everyone else with us when the time comes that we have sufficient access to general medical services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1240	By "we" I probably meant society as a whole, and of course, mainly those who use medical services. I sincerely believe that it is now most important for these groups that this reform be launched as quickly as possible. We have a long time in the future to get this done, and we're going to work very hard to achieve it, but we still have hope that it can be done within the prescribed deadline. I think that a new postponement now will only create an uncertainty that will harm everyone, and above all patients of course. In the work that is now under way, first through negotiations and further follow-up of the municipalities, we have the opportunity to assess many aspects of the implementation itself, but I do not want to go into the specific issues raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1247	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 405]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1263	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 406]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1271	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1277	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-3, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 4, from Trond Helleland on behalf of Right Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a broader documentation on proposals for amending the wording of the second and fourth paragraphs of § 3-1 of the Competition Act at a later stage.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with legislative amendments which would prevent the decisions of the Competition Authority from being appealed against to the Ministry and the King.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the appeal procedure under the Competition Act by setting up an independent review body.’ Proposals Nos. 2-4 will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1372	The Progress Party has announced that these will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1422	The President will vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party: «Articles 3-11, fourth paragraph, second last sentence, shall be replaced by the following:Temporary decision after this paragraph, the supervision of competition shall be dealt with within 3 months.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1519	The law's heading and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1527	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1533	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Mr Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and of the Right-wing motion No. 5, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal No. 6, by Annelise Höegh on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government does not request the initiation of an investigation into a therapeutic reference price system for medicinal products.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to draw up regulations opening the sale of non-prescription medicinal products outside the pharmacies.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to draw up regulations exempting wholesalers specializing in veterinary medicinal products from the full range requirement.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1648	There are two different proposals here. That is proposal No. 5, from the Party of Progress, to the new letter f: ‘§ 1-3(f):Post-order pharmacy: point of sale and place of manufacture of medicinal products to end-users which are not physically available to the public and which may send medicinal products, following written or oral ordering under the given prescription, to end-users in postal calls; points (f), (g), (h), (j), (k) and (l) of the bill of proposal shall be g), (h), (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) respectively.’; And that's proposal No. 6, from the right, to the letters (b), (c) and (f): ‘§ 1-3(b), (c) and (f): (b) "principal pharmacy" means the pharmacy in which the professional manager has the local management when he is also professionally responsible for branch pharmacy. (c) "branch pharmacy": a pharmacy under the local management of a pharmacy manager, but under the same pharmacy concession as a main pharmacy. (f) a pharmacy: professionally responsible for the operation of pharmacies under § 3-1. ‘... The proposal of the Party for Progress is first contested, then alternatively between the position of the Committee on the points (b), (c) and (f) and the proposal of the Right, and finally the other letters of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1695	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 6, from the right: «Articles 1 to 4 Concession requirementsTo own a pharmacy is to be subject to a public authorisation in the form of a concession to ownership of the pharmacy. 2.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1723	For the first subparagraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the Party of Progress and the Right: «Section 1-5, first paragraph: Pharmacy shall be designated by the word pharmacy. Hospital pharmacy may be regarded as an outpatient hospital pharmacy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1807	Point (a) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 2, from the Party of Progress and the Right: ‘Section 2-2, first subparagraph, point (a): Applicants must demonstrate good conduct by means of a police certificate. If the applicant is a legal person, the credit claim relates to the Executive Director of the undertaking. In the case of partnerships without a board, the requirement shall apply to all members of the company.’;» In addition, the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are moving against the third paragraph. The President will first vote alternately between point (a) of the first paragraph of the vote and the proposal of the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1827	And then it goes over the other letters in the first term and the second term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1837	It is then voted over the third paragraph of Section 2-2. So here the Progress Party and the Right have announced that they are going against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1873	Point (a) of the first subparagraph is amended as follows: 6, from the right: «Article 2 to 3, first paragraph, point (a):The applicant has the right of recourse to medicinal products, is an industrial manufacturer of medicinal products or is associated with such manufacturers or undertakings which are ill-treated.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1919	For the second subparagraph, an aberrant proposal, No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. «§ 2-5 second paragraph:Concession for hospital pharmacy may also be granted to a private applicant who fulfils the requirements of § 2-2 cf. § 2-3.’ The first paragraph of the setting shall be quoted, then alternately between the second paragraph of the setting and the proposal of the Party of Advances and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e1967	For § 2-6 and § 2-7, second paragraph, point (a), second sentence, there is an aberrant proposal, no. 2, from the Party of Progress and the Right: «§ 2-6 Municipal consultation, etc.The Community may address the question of the establishment of a pharmacy with the Ministry, the need for pharmacies services of which is not covered.§ 2-7(a) second sentence: Permit to have a drug sale may be revoked with 6 months' notice.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2021	The Party of Advances has notified that it is in breach of point (e) of the first paragraph. So we're going to vote first over point e.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2252	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 6, from the Right, where §§ 3-1 to 3-7 shall replace the setting §§ 3-1 to 3-11. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 3-1 Professional requirements for the operation of a pharmacy In pharmacy, a person who fulfils the following requirements shall be professionally responsible for operating: [[pharmacies]] (a) He/she has a candidate for a Norwegian examination. pharm or equivalent university education from the EEA territory or approved by the Department.b) He/she has at least two years of pharmaceutical practice after examination.c) He/she has official authorization as a pharmacist.d) He/she has good repute according to a police certificate.e) He/she shall be the Executive Director of the pharmacy.f) He/she shall not be unfit to operate a pharmacy. The same person may not be responsible for the operation of more than one pharmacy at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2361	There will then be no alternative between §§3-1 to 3-11 and the proposal from the Right, §§3-1 to 3-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2386	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 6, from the right: ‘Section 4-1, first paragraph: The pharmaceutical staff of the pharmacy are the staff with examinations referred to in the first paragraph of Section 3-1, Norwegian medical training or other pharmaceutical training approved by the Ministry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2486	The Party of Advancement and the Right has notified that they are going against the second sentence of the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2585	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 6-1, first paragraph:The pharmacy has the right to supply goods subject to negotiation and to provide the services resulting from the obligation to negotiate, subject to the restrictions imposed by law, regulation or administrative action. The pharmacy may also supply and provide other goods and services if it is naturally and appropriately compatible with the sale of negotiable products by the pharmacy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2679	The President will vote on proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party and the Right, to Section 6-7, second paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 6-7, second paragraph:The Ministry may provide detailed guidelines for the sale of medicinal products which may be supplied without a prescription outside of a pharmacy. In the case of the supply of such non-pharmacetic medicinal products, the same conditions as those for pharmacopoeias referred to in the first subparagraph shall apply.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e2875	For the first subparagraph, an aberrant proposal is made, No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «§ 10-1, first paragraph:The Chapter of Law. 2 and 3 shall enter into force on 1 July 2000. Other chapters of the Law will come into force from the time the King decides. The King may decide that the individual provisions of the Law shall enter into force at different times.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3026	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3034	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3045	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3051	In the course of the debate, eight proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2-9, except for proposal No. 5, from John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue its efforts to improve general medical coverage, especially in outreach areas. The proposal for a statute shall be scrapped until further notice.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients who are not referred to the specialist by their permanent staff can use self-referral to a specialist with normal reimbursement.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, before the scheme enters into force, to submit the regulations of the Storting scheme.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to regulate patients’ patients’ rights under the Patient Rights Act.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients on the list of permanent staff are free to choose a new permanent staff when this is desirable and necessary for various reasons.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the choice of permanent leave for children under the care of the protection of children is made in consultation with the parents if they are not exempt from the parental right.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that doctors can establish practices independently of county or local boundaries with out of agreement’. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that patients who choose to stand outside the fixed medical scheme pay the same proportion as if they had been on the fixed medical records, and are able to carry the excesses on the card.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3102	The proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3269	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3292	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President expects the Party of Advancement and the Right to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3304	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3578	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3586	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3597	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, the position of the Committee on B will be to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-28-lower.ana.ud737e3606	There is no record.
