ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-22.ana.ud1801e23	The representatives of Ursula Evje, Erik Dalheim, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Odd Eriksen, Reidun Gravdahl and Anne Helen Rui, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget, dated 17 March 2000. The first letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to declare: On March 17, 2000, the State Council of His Majesty The King held at 5 p.m. 1000 is determined: 1st@item: inlistbox Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik, State Councils Odd Roger Enoksen, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Lars Sponheim, Foreign Minister Knut Vollebæk and Government Councils Gudmund Restad, Kåre Gjønes, Eldbjørg Løwer, Odd Einar Dørum, Jon Lilletun, Dag Jostein Fjärvoll, Magnhild Meltvej Kleppa, Dagfinn Højbrätten, Marit Arnstad, Hilde Frafjord Johnson, Guro Fjellanger, Laila Davøy, Åslaug Marie Haga and Lars Peder Breck are granted on application dismissed from their office as members of the King's Board of 17 March 2000 at 5 p.m. 1200.2. The parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Jens Stoltenberg, is appointed Prime Minister and the following to Councils of State from 17 March 2000 at 5.30 p.m. 1200: Mr Thorbjørn Jagland Representative for Storting Bjørn Tore Godal Stortingsrepresentative Grete Knudsen Mr Jørgen Hårek Kosmo Permanent Representative Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen Mr Sylvia Kristin Brustad Chief Tore Tune Theerial Manager Ellen Horn Rapporteur: Mr Guri Ingrijtsen Director Terje Moe Gustavsen Adm. Director Otto Gregussen Director Anne Kristin Sydnes Head of Investigation Siri Bjerke Mr Bjarne Håkon Hanssen Ass. Director Hanne Harlem Mortgage representative Karita Bekkem between Orheim Mr Stortingsretten Olav Akselsen Mr Trond Giske’.» The second letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State for H.M. The King held at Oslo Castle on 17 March 2000 at 7.30 p.m. The Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Jørgen Hårek Kosmo, the Ministry of Labour and Administration, the Ministry of Health and Health, the Board of Directors, Karl Eirik Schjøttt-Pedersen, the Ministry of Finance, the Council of State Sylvia Kristin Brustad, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Environment, the Board of the Environment, the Board of Directors of the Environment and the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of Directors of the Environment, the Board of Directors of Directors and the Board of Directors of Directors of the Board of Directors of Directors of Directors of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Council of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Council of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs, Social Affairs of Social Affairs, Social Affairs of Social Affairs of Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs and the Social Affairs and the Social Affairs and the Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social Affairs, Social The third letter reads as follows: «The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce:In the Council of State of Hans Majestet The King held at Oslo Castle on 17 March 2000 at 1200 hrs the following State Secretaries are appointed:Excutive Director Jonas Gahr Støre, Minister of State's OfficeCommunication Adviser Solveig Solbakken, Ministry of Children's Affairs and Family Teacher Ellen Bergli, Ministry of FisheriesInformation Consultant Øystein Singsaas, Ministry of DefenceConsultant Brith Bergersen, Ministry of Church, Education and ResearchAdm. Director Fatma Bhanzi Jonge, Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs Special Adviser Audun Tron, Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs Researcher Steinar Pedersen, Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional AffairsPolitical adviser Britt Schultz, Ministry of Economic Affairs and TradeBarnehagevikar Eirin Kristin Sund, Department of Social AffairsResearcher Espen Barth Eide, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Department of Foreign AffairsAvd. Director Raymond Johansen, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Senior Adviser Mona Juul, Ministry of Foreign Affairs.’ The President proposes that these three letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The change of government entails the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government Kjell Magne Bondevik, Odd Roger Enoksen, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, Lars Sponheim, Gudmund Restad, Odd Einar Dørum, Jon Lilletun, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Hilde Frafjord Johnson take the seat as representatives. The following alternates meet as representatives at the time representatives Jens Stoltenberg, Thorbjørn Jagland, Bjørn Tore Godal, Grete Knudsen, Jørgen Kosmo, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Sylvia Brustad, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, Karita Bekkedem Orheim, Olav Aksensen and Trond Giske are members of the Government: For Buskerud County: Frank Willy Larsen For Finnmark County: Einar Johansen For Hedmark County: Erling Brandsnes For Hordaland County: Gard Folkvord and Sigurd Grytten For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ottar Kaldhol For Oslo: Anders Hornslien and Shahbaz Tariq For Northern Trøndelag County: Karin Kjølmoen For South-Trundellag County: Tore Nordseth For the Westfold province: Karin Lian Other alternates of Hedmark County, Nils Amund Røhne, are proposed to meet under Einar Olav Skogholt's leave instead of Erling Brandsnes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Nils Amund Røhne is present and will take the seat. Three permit applications are available: from President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl on the leave of 22 and 23 March to take part in an official visit to Egypt by Ms Anne Britt Stråtvej on welfare leave from 22 March onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Party of Presidents on the leave of the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen from 22 March to 28 March to attend the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Lisbon, and to take part in the election of the OSCE at the Presidential elections in Moscow; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox These applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the West Agder County: Dagrun EriksenFor Akershus County: André KokkestadFor Buskerud County: Gerd Johnsen3. Dagrun Eriksen, Gerd Johnsen and Nils Amund Røhne are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Anne Britt Stråtveit, Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and Einar Olav Skogholt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-22.ana.ud1801e283	Dagrun Eriksen, André Kukkestad and Gerd Johnsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-22.ana.ud1801e293	Since the government of Bondevik decided to resign, the Workers' Party has taken on government responsibility as the largest group in the UK. The budgetary agreement with the central parties provides a good basis for cooperation in economic policy and policy on distribution. There is a broad collection of the broad lines of foreign and security policy. The government bases its policy on the Workers' Party programme and invites it to cooperate with the parties in Stortinget. We will promote our affairs with a view to achieving a majority of parties that will contribute to good and collective solutions for the country. Norway is the society of opportunity. We have a population with experience and knowledge. We have rich natural resources. We have a developed welfare society, a diverse cultural tradition, and we live in a peaceful corner of the world. This commits us, and it inspires us to action. For meeting: a global knowledge economy a sustainable development for our common environment a world where so many challenges are common new knowledge, clean environment, fair distribution and better international governance That's the challenge for a whole world. This is the challenge for Norway. The societies of opportunity are not given us. It has been developed through a century of visionary reforms, hard work and political courage. The driving force for those who built the Norwegian welfare society was that they saw the opportunities for work for all and solidarity in our own country and in the world. We're taking this thrust into a new era. Over the last century, the major political challenge was to lift the majority to rights that benefited only a minority. Norway has succeeded in this. The vast majority of our country has work, security and well-being. Our common task now is to raise the minority. Regardless of age, gender, belief or ethnic background: everyone has rights. Everyone has duties. Everyone can contribute. Each of us shall have the opportunity – and duty – to take care of himself and his, and shall know that the day in which he is unable to do so, the community will stand up. We're going to have room to unfold, create and renew. We're going to have good welfare arrangements that provide security. Safe people are creative people. Safe people take easier risks. Norway needs that. We want to change to renew and improve. If we are to succeed, the country must have a good economy. Good economy does not mean big profits. Good economy is to secure work for everyone and a fair distribution. Good economy is using resources across the country. Knowledge is the most important of them. Good economy is to ensure that our businesses can claim at least as well as their competitors. Good economy is to have close cooperation between the social partners, so that we can have both low unemployment and low inflation at the same time. The work, knowledge and creativity of people are Norway's real national wealth. All should be able to work. It's worth working. It should be a pleasure to work. Our goal is to get those who are unemployed today to work. At the same time, Norway needs to meet a new challenge: increasing labour shortages. Even today, there are too few people in the care professions. There's a lot of demand for people with technology skills. We'll need even more people in these important jobs. That is why we need to mobilise new labour in all groups of the population, including immigrants. That is why we need a labour market that attracts those who can work. That is why we need to have a labour market where fewer people are disadvantaged and sick, and where there is room for people with disabilities. Therefore, we need kindergartens and welfare schemes that enable us to combine work and family. In economic policy, we face major challenges. Public health expenditure is clearly growing more strongly than what is growing in the Norwegian economy. This will be reinforced when the number of old-age pensioners increases sharply in a few years. We are also facing strong growth in public expenditure in other important areas. This will require strong willingness to give priority. The revenues of municipalities shall be increased. However, money for important purposes cannot simply pass through increased public funds. We want to demand proper organisation and proper use of the money. We need to think again and see if we can make better use of our resources, in particular to open up investment in areas that need new initiatives: the implementation of the ageing plan, the commitment to education and research, health efforts and the commitment to international solidarity. The government will pursue a forward-looking industrial policy and will draw it closer to IT and research policy. The businesses of the future can be where we least expect them. But competence will certainly be at the center. Knowledge and ideas will be our main capital. That is why education is so important and research is so crucial. That is why we need to implement a reform of continuing education and training. The Government will propose the introduction of a right for adults who wish to take secondary education and who have not completed such training in the past. Norway shall be in the forefront of the use of electronic commerce. E-commerce contributes to lower prices of goods and services in both the private and public sectors. We want new technologies to benefit all citizens. Enterprises and the population in all parts of the country need access to broadband and the new communication channels. There are new, exciting opportunities in rural policy. Public and private forces must be mobilized. City and district are interdependent. The government will pursue an active district policy. We want to reduce the pressure on cities and improve the ability of young people to get their own housing. We will develop the potential of individual regions for the best in the country as a whole: modern agriculture that delivers affordable, high-quality food and that characterises the Norwegian cultural landscape a modern fishing industry that manages marine resources and where we are pioneers in aquaculture and breeding a creative and innovative service sector increased processing of metals, forests and our energy resources We will actively focus on the development of biotechnology. Norway shall not stand outside the new technological revolution. The Government will assess the EU Patents Directive on this basis. The government will work for tax policy reforms. What we pay in taxes finance what we take out in welfare and common property. Therefore, the community needs a solid income base. The goal is low rates, broader tax bases, simpler rules and fewer loopholes. Tax changes shall contribute to fair distribution, innovation and job choices. The Government will make proposals to modernise the VAT system so that goods and services are, in principle, treated equally. This is the broad political consensus on it. Norway must be a leading country in environmental policy. The government will follow the broad consensus on the broad lines of environmental and energy policy and will, in line with this, focus on renewable energy sources and energy saving. This year, with normal rainfall, the energy nation of Norway now needs to buy electricity from other countries and import needs are increasing. Our imports lead to increased emissions in our neighbouring countries. In the Norwegian environmental account, imported power is free of environmental costs. For the world's environment, it's different. The government will continue its efforts to open up some of its power requirements to Norway in the future by producing electricity from Norwegian gas. The use of natural gas in Norway shall take place within the framework of our international environmental obligations. Norway shall use the best available technologies and shall continue to contribute to the development of even more environmentally friendly solutions. The government will initiate a joint programme between authorities and businesses to develop the future greenhouse gas abatement technology CO2. The Kyoto Agreement is a breakthrough for a new generation of environmental agreements where countries are joining forces to reduce emissions. Norway will be the driving force behind the further development of this agency. We are in favour of participation in the World Bank's carbon fund, which will help finance emission reductions and create a global emissions trading system. Quota trade and joint implementation will reduce emissions more rapidly and will contribute to the transfer of technology and capital from rich to poor countries. In order to ensure well-being, the public sector needs to be strengthened. That is why it must be renewed. The public sector must serve everyone, but it cannot do everything. The government will renew and strengthen the public sector in close dialogue with users, local people elected and in cooperation with employees and their organisations. We invite to a broad discussion about the solutions that give us the best production and fair distribution of welfare goods. The public provides the bulk of welfare services, private and non-governmental organisations also have a role to play. If we stand firm on old solutions that do not work, then we weaken confidence in Community solutions, then we weaken welfare and increase inequalities. We all lose that. People want freedom of choice, and people expect a lot of public services. The public sector must do so well that people both choose and trust the public solutions. Good solutions: a quality school for everyone, and a health service with capacity that is there when we need it. Renewal requires reinvigoration. The government is now assessing the division of labour between administrative levels: country, county and municipality. In many areas, there are overlapping responsibilities. We have to clean that up. Double bureaucracy does not provide double welfare. Strong government governance is no automatic guarantee for equivalent offers. Detail management needs to be reduced. Administrative administrative apparatus needs to be simplified — more service production and less administration. The committee responsible for assessing the division of responsibilities between administrative levels sets the deadline for the summer. The government will come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals. The Norwegian State is a significant owner. Good management of community property requires the government to be also a good owner. The State has a role both as owner and regulatory authority. The government will go through the organisation of state ownership to find the arrangements that guarantee us the best results and clean responsibilities. If we are to be technologically at the forefront of information and communication technology, Telenor needs new capital and new impulses. Private capital and competences should also contribute. Therefore, the Government will propose that Telenor become a listed company. The Government will also propose the future management of its direct holdings in the oil sector and the organisation of ownership in Statoil. We invite you to cooperate widely on gathering and long-term solutions. In international work, we need to seize new opportunities to create a better and safer world. We are facing increasing globalisation, rapid technological breakthroughs and major changes in the world economy. We face poverty, environmental threats, refugees and disease epidemics. In one decade, the focus is turned away from the Cold War’s terror balance to the common security needs of the global society. The global challenges make it necessary to reform and strengthen the UN. The government will work to secure Norway in the UN Security Council for the period 2001–2002. We will emphasise the work on human rights, democracy and international mobilisation against corruption and crime. The Government will continue Norway's commitment to peace and reconciliation, including: in the Middle East. Europe's future is also Norway's future. The government will pursue a foreign policy that will further promote Norwegian interests in the new Europe. We also have a responsibility for peace and cooperation in our part of the world. European cooperation is undergoing major changes. The new democracies are applying to the EU. We must be prepared for our Nordic neighbouring countries to introduce the single European currency, the euro. These are new challenges for Norway. The government is based on the outcome of the referendum on EU membership in 1994 and will build on the basis of the cooperation developed by the EEA Agreement and other arrangements. We will provide the Storting with a broad review of the challenges and opportunities in the relationship with Europe in a comprehensive communication on European policy. We need a binding and predictable regulation of world trade. We want to contribute to the swift start of a new round of negotiations within the World Trade Organisation. The Government will have a defence adapted to Norway’s security needs. Norway will play an active role in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. We will take our responsibility in the further development of NATO and European security cooperation. We will build on our close historical ties with the United States. The Nordic countries are closest to Norway. Russia is part of Europe and Norway's neighbour. We will develop a good and long-term neighbourly relationship with Russia, in particular with a view to sound environmental and resource management in the northern regions. The majority of Norway lives in well-being and security — it does not do so by the majority in the world. Today, half the earth’s population lives in poverty. It's a shame. The world can fight poverty, the instruments exist – political will is required to put them into practice. The Government will strengthen the Norwegian contribution. We want an active role for non-governmental organisations and business. The government will use our means of assistance for targeted action against poverty. Disease leads to poverty, and poverty leads to more disease. We have to and can break this spiral. This year, three million of the world’s children die from diseases against which Norwegian children are vaccinated – there are six children every minute. We can do something about this. We want to help secure vaccines for all children around the world. The Government will propose that Norway support and lead the Global Vaccine Initiative, led by the World Bank, UNICEF, the World Health Organisation and private donors. We want children and young people to look ahead and know: this is our society, a society for everyone, a society that we will take responsibility for. Not everyone can say that today. We have a common responsibility to prevent loneliness, combat bullying and help people — young and old — who have mental problems. Our society should be characterized by increased tolerance and respect. We need to have respect for the opinion, orientation, culture and tradition of others. We need to have tolerance for the wishes of the majority and the needs of the minority. We should not tolerate crime, drug abusers and those who actively spread xenophobia. Tolerance and respect for diversity say something important about our quality as a society and community. Cultural policy must be inclusive and promote diversity in Norway. Culture and sport are an important part of our work to promote creativity and creativity. Literature, theatre, cinema, pictures, music and dance – new and old forms of expression: culture should challenge and make our lives richer. The government is the people's servants. We go to our task of humility and optimism. Norway is the society of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-22.ana.ud1801e413	The Government’s statement is proposed for consideration in a subsequent meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-22.ana.ud1801e422	There is no record.
