ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e40	The representatives of Grethe G. Fossum, Karin Andersen, Kari Økland, Jan Simonsen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Sverre J. Hoddevik and Jon Olav Alstad, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Eastern Agder State: Alf-Eivind Ljøstad For Buskerud County: Gerd Johnsen and Hallgrim Berg For the province of Hordaland: Kurt-Arne Langeland For More and Romesdal County: Gerd Flatset For Telemark County: Gunn Marit Helgesen For South Tribute County: No Balstad From the so-called Deputy Representative of Akershus County, Rikke Lind, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Sverre Myrlis leave from 9 May to 11 May, due to illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. Other alternates of Akershus, Åge Tovan, are invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e111	Oy, Tovan is here and wants to take a seat. The request for a welfare permit for the representative of Ola D. Glötwold from 9 May to 11 May is made by the Central Party Group. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Ida Marie Løvlien, is called to meet during the period of leave.3. Ida Marie Løvlien is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Ola D. Glötvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e134	Ida Marie Løvlien is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e139	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e144	I propose Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Wideth as presidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e149	Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg and Per Ove Width are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e164	The news picture shows us with all possible clarity how development policy is an integral part of foreign policy and international work for peace and security. Zimbabwe is in a deep political, social and economic crisis, while continuing its controversial and costly military involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The unrest and violence in Sierra Leone have almost shifted the unrest in Zimbabwe from media headlines in the last few days. Sierra Leone is one of many tragic examples of how conflict prevents development. At the same time, the conflict shows the importance of aid efforts to prevent conflicts from reversing. Prevention and settlement of wars and violent conflicts are absolutely necessary in the fight against poverty. The human suffering in Ethiopia and Eritrea shows how conflict affects the weakest and prevents development. Norway is involved in several processes to contribute to the prevention and resolution of conflicts, including: in the Middle East, Colombia, Sri Lanka and Sudan. At the same time, the Government, including in the United Nations context, is working to improve the interaction between humanitarian and long-term aid. Poverty is not abstract, it has face and voice. Poverty is when parents cannot feed children, clothes and clean drinking water when people in rural areas do not have access to land when people do not have work and money. Poverty is poor health and education. Poverty is violence against fundamental rights. Being poor is to be vulnerable to the exercise of power by others and have little or no opportunity to gain and the family a better future. The problem of poverty is the greatest challenge in our time. A quarter of the earth's population has to deal with a daily income of less than one dollar. Still, people south of Sahara live 25 years shorter than us. Infant mortality remains 15 times higher than in developed countries. Each country must pursue a national policy that provides a basis for security and opportunities to overcome poverty. Assistance is solidarity and partnership with poor countries with such objectives. Assistance is about giving change forces in society a chance and creating options — opportunities to ‘select’ poverty. These choices are greatest in countries with democratic governance. Democracy support and poverty reduction are therefore two sides of the same coin. Norway has joined the OECD and UN poverty reduction targets. The proportion living in extreme poverty should be halved by 2015. The goal is ambitious and makes great demands on all of us. The primary responsibility for taking this objective seriously lies with developing countries themselves. The role of development policy is to support developing countries' own efforts. Norway has been a leading country in the fight against poverty. We still have to be. And we have to be focused. We have to make sure that we always use the most effective tools. If new grips work better than old ones, we have to choose new ones. If alliances with others make the ground less steep, there's no good reason to act alone. It's the results that count. Combating poverty must be included in the frameworks for developing countries’ opportunities. We have common interests with developing countries in the fact that the major players are as committed as possible by common rules of play. Only the larger and stronger countries can afford weak international institutions. Our commitment to the UN and the World Trade Organisation is part of the work of a fairer and better organized world. The same is true of our cooperation with the EU. The government wants to be involved in putting the agenda into these important forums, and we want to have the most developmental agenda possible. For a child born today in Zambia or Zimbabwe, the risk is greater that it will die of AIDS than that it will not. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is one of the main isolated barriers to development. AIDS is now the leading cause of death in Africa. In some countries life expectancy has fallen to 20 years. AIDS affects young people, often well-trained, and now especially girls and women. Schools are losing their teachers. Health professionals are overworked and themselves infected. AIDS undermines progress, reverses economic and social development and strengthens poverty. The fight against HIV/AIDS will therefore be among the most priority areas of our development cooperation in the future. Access to basic social services is a prerequisite for social and economic development. Norway has been a driver of the so-called 20/20 initiative, in which both rich and poor countries are encouraged to spend enough resources to ensure basic health and education provision for all. The government will continue this work both in our own assistance and internationally and link it to new measures that coordinate and target resources. We take vaccination of our children as a matter of course. But every year millions of children are born who do not receive such an offer. Many die of diseases such as polio, diphtheria, tetanus and measles. These diseases can be prevented. Routine vaccination costs no more than NOK 160 per person. a child. Vaccination is a cost-effective contribution to the fight against poverty. The government’s support for the new Global Vaccine Initiative (GAVI) involves an active driver’s function and strategic contribution to a global partnership where multilateral, bilateral and private actors act together. The next GAVI Governing Board meeting will be held in Oslo on 13 June following an invitation from the Government. GAVI works on three fronts, first by supporting countries in ensuring functioning infrastructure and maintaining high vaccine coverage, second by providing countries with financial assistance to implement good existing vaccines, and thirdly by contributing to the development of new vaccines for some of the diseases that are currently taking the most lives but for which no cures are yet available. This applies not least to AIDS and malaria. In order to play an active role internationally in this area, we want close cooperation with Norwegian professional environments, research and business. Some of the most demanding tasks we face relate to debt, trade and investment. Many developing countries are still burdened with old debt, almost 20 years after the ‘debt crisis’ became a concept. For many of the poorest developing countries, the interest and tax burden is so great that real opportunities for development are undermined. With the Norwegian debt plan, it was opened for Norway to surrender 100 pst. of the claims of the poorest and most indebted countries. Tanzania is the first country to benefit from such conditions from Norway. Several countries will follow when they have their plans ready. We will continue to work to improve the international debt regime, including the establishment of a separate negotiating arrangement for the full financing of the so-called HIPC regime, so that it can be implemented. Norway will continue to work actively to ensure that the debt burden of the multilateral banks does not go beyond their other assistance to poor countries. The poorest countries' share of world trade is only half a percent. Weak domestic capacity, and not least the protectionism of developed countries, are serious obstacles to developing countries. According to UNDP's poverty report in 2000, the protection of agriculture in industrialised countries cost about USD 350 billion in 1998. This is seven times the amount of total assistance provided by the industrialized countries per year. years. This is a great cross of thought. If developing countries are to benefit from the opportunities offered by globalisation, a strong, open and rules-based trading system is necessary. The government will continue to work for a new broad round of negotiations in the WTO, where the special needs and interests of the poorest developing countries are met. These countries must be given a real opportunity to participate actively in the negotiations and thereby participate in the further development of trade legislation. Better market access for products from the poorest developing countries, positive special treatment and greater commitment to trade-related technical assistance, especially for LDCs, are key elements of our WTO strategy. The government will take into account in its assessment of future general tariff reductions in the WTO those export products of particular interest to developing countries. Towards the end of the 1990s, sub-Saharan Africa enjoyed only 2.5 pst. of total private capital transfers to developing countries. In Africa, in other words, this form of drag for economic growth — and poverty reduction — has been extremely modest. This trend must be reversed. The government will work to improve conditions for Norwegian private investment in Africa. At the same time, it must be recognised that African countries will continue to rely significantly on public development assistance. I will therefore at the same time confirm that Africa will continue to be a priority in Norwegian development cooperation. Poverty is evidence of a failure of economic development and weak mechanisms for the distribution of goods. Economic growth creates jobs and revenues. The creation of a basis for increased tax revenue, public contributions to health and education, cohesion and safety networks is primarily through business activities. But it's not given that the growth benefits the poor. Distribution policy is something that the governments we work with have to choose. The government attaches great importance to the work for increased employment and good working conditions. This is about the rights of the individual and their contribution to development. In this work, the ILO is very central. The Government will support the strategic objectives of the ILO on the promotion of fundamental rights in the labour market and employment promotion measures. An overall commitment to value creation through business development needs to be given a wider place in Norwegian aid. I will later in the presentation outline the main elements of the Government's policy in this area. The environmental, resource and climate challenges are part of the poverty problem. Depletion of natural resources and environmental degradation leads to poverty, while poverty often aggravates environmental damage. It is the poorest that are hit hardest when climate change leads to drought and flooding. We in the industrialised consumer communities bear the highest responsibility for climate problems, but we are now experiencing strong growth in emissions in the major developing countries. China is today the country that, next to the United States, emits the most anthropogenic greenhouse gases. In India, greenhouse gas emissions have increased by a total of 60 pst. during the last 10 years. It is precisely in developing countries that emissions growth is expected to increase. Developing countries therefore play a central role in meeting global environmental challenges. We will help to enable developing countries to negotiate and follow up on international environmental conventions. The environmental management of developing countries needs to be strengthened. In this context, the government will stimulate long-term institutional cooperation within general government and continue cooperation with Norwegian professional environments and Norwegian business. The government wants a new impetus in international cooperation on the environment and development. The work of the UN Commission on Sustainable Development and the preparations for the 2002 decade review of the World Conference on Environment and Development in Rio thus become an important process. Bad governance is one of the main causes of poverty. Peace, a functioning democracy and respect for human rights are central prerequisites for the development of every country. Main responsibility rests on developing countries themselves. If the aid is to become something more than emergency aid, we depend on social structures that allow for participation and fair distribution. The effort for democracy and good governance must therefore be a horizontal theme in all our development policies. Good governance means respect for human rights. Respect for human rights is the basis of any development process. This is not a ‘value-added’ export but a contribution to strengthening the ability of the cooperating countries to fulfil their national and international obligations. People with disabilities in developing countries are often among the poorest. Work to improve their situation is an important part of the work on poverty-orientation of assistance. The government will therefore follow up Plan for the work of people with disabilities in the assistance. The government will place great emphasis on the fight against corruption. Corruption has different forms of expression, but is found in all countries. Corruption undermines trust, democracy and human rights. Corruption promotes crime and inhibits industrial development and economic stability. It is the poor who are hit hardest. Many developing countries have taken their own initiatives to combat corruption. There is an increasing focus on corruption also in the international dialogue on development issues. An efficient public sector, active media and informed civil society actors are a prerequisite for providing knowledge of corruption and for controlling corruption. The government will therefore contribute to building institutional capacity and promote such interaction between different actors as part of our overall development policy. It is a central objective of our assistance to contribute to strengthening the ability of countries to further develop democracy. The Government will place increased emphasis on democratic support, both in bilateral engagement and in cooperation with non-governmental organisations and international organisations. Where Norway has relevant knowledge, the Government emphasises the involvement of Norwegian competences. I want to increase support for free media, including: in the case of contributions to the training of journalists. I also want us to help strengthen political structures in our countries of cooperation. Norwegian political parties should be able to participate in this work. The involvement of Norwegian industry will also contribute to the development of democracy. These are aspects that will be discussed in the guidelines on democratic support, which are now under review. Zimbabwe is currently experiencing a deep political, social and economic crisis, while continuing its controversial and costly military involvement in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This crisis has been further exacerbated by increasing political violence and unrest associated with the forthcoming elections and land occupations of large ‘white’ countries. There is reason to fear that because of violence and unrest, this election will not be possible in a free and fair way. From the Norwegian side, we have for a long time seen increasing concern for the development of Zimbabwe and strongly protested against the authorities’ handling of the situation. We have also made it clear to the Zimbabwean authorities that this development means that we will need to assess our continued aid exposure in the country. As part of this assessment, the Government recently decided to send a wide-ranging Norwegian delegation to the country to investigate the situation. This delegation came back this weekend, and has just handed over a report that will now be available. The delegation's report broadly confirms the assessments we have made of the situation in the country. On this basis, the Government has decided to take the following measures: So far, we want to freeze parts of the state to the state aid for Zimbabwe. However, in order not to hit the poorest in the country, we will safeguard, as far as possible, the clearly poverty-oriented assistance in the social sector. In practice, the freezing decision will amount to an estimated 20 million. of the remaining 35 million. kr on the country programme of the year. Nor will any new state-to-state agreements be concluded. At the same time, we will increase our efforts in the field of human rights and democracy through non-governmental channels, in particular non-governmental organisations, church networks and trade union movements. We work with other countries to enable Norwegian observers to monitor the preparation and implementation of the forthcoming elections in the country. In this context, we attach great importance to the fact that both opposition and civil society representatives in the country want such observers to be sent. We will cooperate with the SADC and the countries of the region to try to help mitigate the level of conflict in Zimbabwe. A political and economic collapse in the country could have serious consequences for the whole of southern Africa. The implementation of a country reform will be absolutely necessary to resolve some of the fundamental political and economic problems in Zimbabwe. The government has therefore taken an initiative towards the UN at the UNDP to try to bring this reform process back to a path that the international donor community can support. These measures are broadly in line with what the delegation that has just been in Zimbabwe has also recommended, even if we go a little further than what it proposes in terms of freezing the state of state aid. We have found it necessary to take this step because of the seriousness of the situation and the need to send a clear signal to the authorities in Zimbabwe. At the same time, we regard it as important to support the active civil society already existing in Zimbabwe, which is an important prerequisite for ensuring the future development of democracy in that country. There is also reason to stress that the representatives of the opposition and civil society that the Norwegian delegation met during its visit expressed a clear desire for Norway to maintain an aid exposure in the country. Developments in Zimbabwe will continue to be closely monitored, and the Government will come back with an assessment of whether the country should continue to have the status of a priority co-operation country for the Norwegian State for State aid in the context of the 2001 State Budget. Conflicts prevent development. Preventing and combating war and violent conflict are essential for the effective fight against poverty. Many of today's conflicts show that war can become a way of life, where society is brutalized and many see no future after the end of the war. From the Norwegian side, we have played an active role in preventing and resolving conflicts. This is a job that will continue. Emergency aid and humanitarian aid are of a short-term nature. However, at the end of the emergency response, there is often a large gap between the resource use to alleviate short-term distress and the means to meet the long-term needs of the population. Norway works, inter alia: in the context of the United Nations, for better interaction and coordination between emergency aid and long-term assistance. It is the poorest developing countries that need the most assistance. In these countries, the density of donors and projects is also greatest. Coordination of international assistance is too poor today. The government will therefore build alliances with other donors for simplification of procedures, better division of labour, more frequent co-financing and more systematic use of each other’s reports. The cooperation countries' own strategies for combating poverty should be the basis for both debt relief and development cooperation. It is about creating a common platform for development based on broad consultation between government, parliament, business and civil society. Making this work in practice remains a major challenge. In the so-called Utstein cooperation between the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and Norway, which my predecessors profitably helped establish, we have chosen the health sector in Tanzania as a model for recipient-driven and coordinated approach to a social sector. In the future, some of the challenges will be to develop processes in which we can make more rational use of common capacities and competences. In this context, of course, close cooperation with the other Nordic countries will also be important. Voluntary organisations have long played an important role in Norwegian aid. They'll still do that. In the future, organisations must also be required to be coordinated with national development plans. The guidelines for support through non-governmental organisations are now being revised. The government will come back to the case in 2001 draft government budget. From the Norwegian side, emphasis shall be placed on a closer interaction between our support through bilateral and multilateral channels. We fully support the World Bank's initiatives for coordinating development cooperation at sectoral and country level. Coordination is also central to the OECD Development Committee (DAC), which develops guidelines for poverty reduction for Member States. Norway has a clear interest in international driving rules and gives the multilateral system a high priority as a channel for Norwegian assistance. Multilateralism must be strengthened. A key issue will be how the United Nations system, which was established for a period of internationalism, can now adapt to globalisation. Today, there is a great contrast between the underfunded UN system and the enormous wealth that exists in what we can call the global private sector. The UN system will need to seek alliances with new actors on the global stage, with the private sector and with states. In these creative coalitions, these new partnerships, there are great opportunities. The UN’s Millennium Summit, which will pass to the UN General Assembly in the autumn, will discuss precisely the role and challenges of the United Nations in the 21st century and the need to enter into new partnerships. These are also issues that will need to be on the agenda of next year's major and important Conference on Financing for Development. Globalisation calls for the coherence of all national and international policies. The conference and its preparations provide a genuine opportunity to address systemic issues, public and private resource transfers and resource mobilisation requirements in developing countries themselves in the context. The conference thus becomes an important building block in the development of what is now commonly referred to as ‘a new development architecture’. The challenge will still be to fill this somewhat airy concept of practical and effective development policies. It is easy to be overwhelmed by all the grief, distress and abstinence you see and meet. There is an unbearable amount of human degradation and suffering. I still choose to go to the problems with optimism. There is now a long way to go to agree on the complex causes of poverty. There is also an international consensus that an overall commitment is needed to reduce poverty. There is still quite a broad consensus as to what action is needed, albeit not necessarily as to the dosage. New technologies are creating new opportunities. Not least, the raging development of the Internet and computer technology provide us with new instruments to combat poverty. A major computer company recently set up a large screen and data equipment in the slum in Bombay, India. The children of the city, who could neither read nor write, immediately threw themselves over this new ‘game’. Within a few hours, they had entered the machine and found «disney.com» on the Internet — an example of children’s glowing discovery and lack of fear of the unknown, but also an illustration of how new technologies can be used for learning and development. We will continue to work on how to make better use of these positive opportunities in our own development policy. We have already seen examples of countries and people who have come out of poverty by systematically investing in the new knowledge-based industries. Western countries are currently recruiting well-qualified labour from countries we have previously defined as developing countries. Our task must be to stimulate cross-border knowledge development and exchange, without simultaneously discouraging developing countries for competence. Poverty takes the children away from school and into work. Lack of literacy and knowledge hinders the development of democracy and keeps poor people down. Education — at all levels — is therefore a priority area of the Government’s development policy. I am particularly concerned about the girls' right to education and the potential for social development that lies here. The objective of increasing education assistance to 15 pst. of the overall aid budget. Poverty particularly affects women. Often a woman's image is drawn as a "weak" group. This is going wrong. Women's involvement in Norwegian working and social life has contributed strongly to the fact that Norway is today a prosperous and modern society. Similarly, women are an invaluable and under-utilised resource in developing countries’ development and modernisation efforts. The government will therefore strengthen efforts to integrate the gender and gender perspective into assistance. Culture, sport and social inclusion are not luxury phenomena in development policy. On the contrary, it is important to create a ground for joy and life, not least where poverty is greater. This contributes to creating faith, hope and commitment. In addition, the focus on culture is a genuine example of equivalent cooperation and enriching exchanges. When children from Tanzania and Tynset meet on the football course during the Norwegian Cup, or folk musicians from Guatemala meet Norwegian colleagues, it is with an equivalency and mutuality that one can easily lose sight of in the traditional aid. The fight against poverty must have an impact on all aspects of our policies. Globalisation requires not only an integrated southern policy but also a broad support for assistance in the Norwegian community and the clarification of the south perspective in all policy areas. Through an offensive partnership between authorities, non-governmental organisations and private businesses, we will strengthen Norwegian assistance. In particular, in the field of industrial development in the south, there is a basis for increased interaction between authorities, trade unions and businesses. We have to take advantage of the fact that Norwegian business is conscious of its social responsibility. The NHO has developed checklists on human rights for companies that are betting internationally. They're doing the same thing now in terms of corruption. This is something that our cooperating countries see very positively. Work in the so-called pilot countries opens up extra good opportunities for cooperation. Both the LO and the NHO are already committed to strengthening employment organisations in countries such as Uganda and Mozambique. We want to build on this work. The government sees it as a priority task to improve the conditions for Norwegian business to compete on a level playing field in the global market related to development measures. In this context, international decoupling is becoming very important. At the same time, I would like to stress that the abolition of Norwegian schemes must take place in line with developments in other countries. In order to convince the Norwegian business community that investment in developing countries is also a good store, it is important to organise the instruments for Norwegian establishments in the best possible way. The Norwegian instrumentation is often considered to be complicated, fragmented and of little impact. The government will therefore invite a dialogue on simpler and more efficient business arrangements. We now look at concrete opportunities for simplification and strengthening of our arrangements and assess, among other things. the establishment of an unbundled loan scheme – in line with the arrangements we find in our neighbouring country. One alternative could be a new arrangement that takes into account today's mixed credits and parallel financing, so that we get one arrangement consisting of both tied and unbound funds. This will provide us with a powerful and flexible financing system of which Norwegian businesses will benefit greatly, but where they will also need to demonstrate international competitiveness. Such a comprehensive credit scheme will provide us with valuable flexibility. I also want to challenge Norwegian educational institutions and research communities to a more active partnership in development policy, based on their own needs and wishes. The objective of development policy is set. At the same time, we need to be clear that some of yesterday's instruments are not necessarily optimal today. The results must guide the use of the instrument. On this basis, the Government will base the following main elements on our further work: 1st@item: inlistbox We want to increase our effort. I can confirm that the Government has the aim of increasing Norwegian assistance to 1 pst. of GNI, in line with the possibilities of using the funds effectively.2. We will support the basic social services, which remain the building blocks of Norwegian aid. Assistance to health and education will be given particular priority as one of the main contributions to poverty reduction.3. Assistance is politics. Promoting good governance, democracy and respect for human rights will be a high priority in the fight for poverty reduction.4. We're open to adjustments. We will continuously and critically assess which countries should benefit from the assistance and what volume it should be. We will also assess to what extent regional cooperation can contribute to more effective assistance.5. We invite you to a partnership. We want business, trade, research and other actors in civil society as partners in the fight against poverty.6. We give priority to investment. I will facilitate increased investment for the development of industry in the south and strengthen the capital base of NORFUND.7. We want more debate and a broader anchoring of our development policy. I would like to invite a broad dialogue on Norwegian aid, including on the role of voluntary organisations in a comprehensive development policy. I want to establish better contact with different actors in Norwegian society.8. We want more coordination. The Government will contribute to better coordination of international development cooperation, preferably under the auspices of the recipient countries themselves.9. We have to make sure we're doing what we're doing. Evaluation activities will therefore be given a high priority and assistance management will be even better.10. We need to know better. In order to justify our use of resources, we need to be even better able to reach out with information to the Norwegian public, especially to the young. Development policy needs involvement, activity and participation from new forces. We need inspiration and ideas from all parts of society. I would like to see even more young people in the debate on poverty reduction and development. If we are to succeed in maintaining and perhaps increasing youth involvement, the Internet points out as the channel of future communication. It is important that assistance information ‘on-line’ is also organised for young people, so that they stop and take an interest — rather than ‘surfing’ on. Assistance must be made relevant, engaging and exciting. We have to make visible the contributions we make and the results that are achieved. Only in this way can our invitation to participation from new groups and new generations have concrete content. It is the youth's commitment, on the contrary, and ideas that are to carry this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e368	The President suggests that the statement be made to deal with a later meeting in Stortinget – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e378	About 150 years ago, an American portrait painter named Samuel Morse was working on a portrait of General La Fayette in Washington. At the same time his wife became seriously ill and died. However, it took more than seven days before the news reached Morse. The grip of grief began Morse to wonder whether it was possible to remove the barrier between time and space, so that no one would have to be away from the nearest when they needed them the most. The result was that Morse found out how to use electricity to send messages, and so he invented the telegraph. For the first time, a message could be delivered over a distance without messengers. Samuel Morse laid the foundation for the electronic communications revolution. Emotion became an innovation. Not until 1 February 1999 the Morse Code disappeared as a maritime communication system. France abolished that system in 1997 with the following message: ‘Calls all. This is our last cry for eternal silence." But it hasn't become quiet. The information revolution provides new communications systems at a speed never before experienced by the world. Over the next few years, developments will accelerate further. We'll get the merger of the TV and the Internet. If not long, we will have more capacity to process data in our mobile phones – or what we will then call them. Progress will be faster and faster. This gives us great challenges, but above all enormous opportunities. The whole community is changing. The building blocks of society are under pressure: the institutions themselves, the family, the board of directors, the economy, the work and the organisations. This creates both hope for the future and frustration. And I know that many people are anxious about what's happening. In its days Socrates feared that the introduction of Egyptian paper would split human contact, cause poorer memory and replace the public debate with private communication. We know he was wrong, but I understand that new technologies can also create uncertainty. To those who are insecure, I would say: I understand the fear of the new, but we cannot turn our backs on the changes. The world won't wait for us. The development will overstep us if we don't take the command and sit in the driver's seat. Just as the cars changed the structure of the cities and lifts the shape of the houses, the digital flows will change the shape and structure of the housing pattern, the family, the organisations and not least the nations. Globalisation and major changes are not just due to technological developments. It is also driven by political choices. For this government, it is important to stress that we want to be active participants in order to influence the processes, and most importantly: we want a society in which everyone participates. Tom Peter's magazine in the book «In Search of Excellence» took over the date when the new economy – the knowledge economy – took over the industrial economy. According to Peters, this happened on 17 January 1992. That day Microsoft General Motors passed in stock exchange value. The main difference between General Motors and Microsoft is that the production of General Motors is largely based on labour and machines, while Microsoft draws its production from human creativity and knowledge. On January 17, 1992, General Motor’s annual turnover was 120 billion dollars, while Microsoft’s annual turnover was 2.5 billion dollars. The distance between the book value and the stock exchange value of the companies in the new economy is constantly increasing in different ways. And the high value of many of the online companies is often called, rightly, magic money – magic money. The new thing is that the new companies are now dealing with the magic money. A few months ago, American Online bought up Time Warner. American Online was established in 1995 and did not make money until 1998. When they bought Time Warner, they were valued at $1,210 billion! The value of American Online is the value of the knowledge and brand name of the company. Knowledge requirements are increasing in all sectors. It is not accidental that cleaners have been one of the most attractive professional groups to take professional letters. No sector is unaffected by society’s requirements for knowledge and quality. It is reassuring that the Landsorganisation has raised this tab high and before the development of its demands for continuing training reform. The Internet creates new challenges for existing businesses and businesses. For example, when you have: in seconds, can order and pay books on the Internet, move competition away from the street corner and across to an international arena. It is therefore not accidental that we now see the combination of bookshops and cafés show up. Traditional bookshops need an additional service to compete with online commerce. Creativity in marketing and customer contact is becoming increasingly important, while the knowledge and competence of employees are made visible as a competitive advantage also in the service provision. Similarly, the new economy imposes new requirements on branding and design. Here Norway has a lot to learn and a lot to pick up. Denmark is way ahead of us and spends over 100 million. kr on design each year, while in Norway we spend around 8 million. kr. When we're going to understand the new economy, we also have to consider that the new generations that come in as market players are the most communicative ever. Every day, an estimated two million text messages are sent in Norway, plus chat and e-mail. There will be a generation that takes it for granted to be available all the time, and that does not relate to either time zones or geography. It is these young people who are going to create values in Norway. It's a challenge to understand them. Never before has reality changed more between generations than now. Norway is a long way ahead. When we're going to take the step into the community of competences, we're not going to be modest. We're going to have the ambition to be the best. In my view, Norway faces nine main challenges on the threshold of the new economy. An information society for all is our main challenge. Norway is a large country, with few people. Everyone shall be given the opportunity to participate – women, men, old and young people, irrespective of their place of residence, their situation in life or income. If we succeed in getting the whole of Norway online, we will increase knowledge and demand and thus create opportunities and needs for new services that can lift Norway into the knowledge economy. If we are to lift Norway into the digital future, we must build bridges that carry us all. If we're to make sure that the information society becomes accessible to everyone, it becomes a keyword. The starting point here is the schools. All schools in Norway shall have broadband networks. Norwegian students shall be leaders in the use of ICT. But this isn't enough. It is important that the availability of the network is optimal, so that everyone has the opportunity to hang out with it. Therefore, we will consider special measures aimed at those who do not have the resources to obtain computers and connect online. But adults also need training. Many in my generation — including leaders — rarely or never use the computer. Evil tongues claim in between that some managers with great computers in the office only use the computer screen to hang yellow patches on. It is therefore important to stimulate schemes that provide employees with training in the use of IT, regardless of their profession. It's never too late to learn or to be curious, so I'll encourage others from my generation to use the new technology. I myself will go ahead and have challenged the entire Government to go on course to increase the competence and use of the new technology internally. The Internet offers new opportunities for access to information, education and culture. Schools and workplaces are important arenas for access, but also other public places, such as libraries and public information publications. The government will work in partnership with industry to improve access to the Internet. Internet cafés in malls can be one measure in this context, but also in districts. We want to put the tools at our disposal to stimulate more online cafés. We also need to take into account that individuals have different abilities and opportunities to use the new technology. It is therefore important to have specific measures targeted at individual groups. Maybe we can open schools in the evening for parents and grandparents who want to get rid of the fear of data. We will create confidence and exploit the self-regulatory mechanisms of business. An important barrier to the use of e-commerce is cultural. Companies are afraid not to get paid. As consumers, we are concerned that our personal details will be abused. Copyright owners are afraid of piracy. It is therefore important to build confidence in the use of e-commerce, both B2B – Business2Business – and B2C – Business2Consumer. A legislative process in Norway may take up to several years, and taking into account the speed with regard to the development of the Internet and e-commerce, the risk is great that a law has expired on the date before the adoption of the Stortinget. We must therefore build on the will and ability of business to self-regulate and not create too many bottlenecks in the development of the new economy. However, we shall ensure that consumer rights and privacy considerations are respected in at least the same way as in traditional trade. We will follow up on ‘Simplify Norway’ and consider moving forward by establishing ‘A changing Norway’. The ambition is to go more from regulation to renewal and transformation. There will be fewer regulations and laws to deal with, and we have set the objective of removing all unnecessary legal barriers to the use of electronic communications by the end of 2001. In this area, we can go ahead of the administration. Our objective is to simplify and streamline reporting between business and public services using electronic forms and other electronic data exchange solutions. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has set up a multidisciplinary reference group for electronic reporting to be a driving force in this work. The protection of information, computer systems and infrastructure must take place through targeted and wide-ranging security work. There must be more than one single measure to protect against viruses, such as the recent ILOVEYOU virus, or any other possible type of attack. Programmes and technical safety devices must be part of the normal equipment of network components, servers and personal computers. Operators as well as users must have the necessary competence. And there must be provision of safe products and methods. The Ministry of Industry and Trade has therefore focused on working on framework conditions that promote data security. In this context, I refer to the systems for the certification of IT security in organisations, products and systems and to the work on the new law on electronic signature. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has also launched its own investigation into the security of IT in society, proposing strategies and measures to increase societal resilience to IT attacks and failures in IT systems. Developing solutions for digital signatures and other security measures shall ensure that electronic documents become as secure and legally sustainable as the paper-based documents. Solutions for electronic processing and for secure communication provide better opportunities for increased delegation and decentralisation of tasks and functions traditionally placed centrally within organisations. In addition, it may help to increase confidence in the use of electronic solutions. Norway is among the world’s leading countries using the Internet and mobile phones. This has made us a test country for a variety of services and products. This leadership position may be temporarily suspended. If we're going to keep the position, we're going to have to stay ahead of it all the time, both technologically and regulatoryly. We don't have much time, but we still have the opportunity to win this position by being in the middle of nationwide broadband networks. But it's urgent! Both the Netherlands, Sweden and Australia have greater ambitions than us. The government will allow competition and demand to direct the development of physical infrastructure, rather than a government investment line. Decisions on investments in broadband infrastructure should be taken as far as possible by market players. The size has recently determined that, with its strong market position in the fixed network, Telenor shall have an obligation to let competitors lease the fixed local loops. It is necessary to assess whether additional instruments are necessary to increase competition across the network. The government will assess demand-stimulating measures in the public sector. They will aim to improve and improve the efficiency of service production in public activities and administration. In order to ensure the desired pace of deployment of broadband services to the whole country, the Government will assess, if necessary, some State measures to ensure access in areas and to groups where the market will not offer commercial coverage at reasonable prices. In this case, it should be done primarily by means of measures aimed at stimulating the potential of users to demand broadband services in the market, where appropriate by contributing to the provision of coverage beyond what is commercially viable. The aim of broadband deployment is to ensure that access to the new services on a broad basis is minimised. What technology we choose to use to achieve this is a more open question. We also need to ensure good capacity in the network and good opportunities for rerouting traffic. The world is becoming more and more one. Globalisation makes the world a market for Norwegian enterprises. It is not just the bookstore Haugen Book in Volda that has expanded the market from the neighborhood of Volda to the whole of Norway and the world. All Norwegian enterprises are now living in a reality of increased competition in all or part of their business. The government will therefore refocus its efforts on the internationalisation of business. Norway has a lot to contribute to international forums in terms of skills, and we have a lot to learn. Binding international cooperation is necessary to safeguard our national interests. It is in Norwegian interests to seek the liberalisation of the markets for IT-related services in the WTO. This will increase the potential for export-oriented growth in Norwegian industry and could provide growth incentives for the production of goods with large integrated service production. It is also in the Norwegian interests that electronic commerce is subject to common and non-discriminatory rules in the WTO. It is important that small countries are guaranteed the same opportunities and conditions in international trade as large countries. The EU is in the process of standardising both infrastructure and legislation, alongside harmonising Member States’ policies. The eEurope initiative, launched by the European Commission in December 1999, is the result of this. The EU's commitment will contribute to economic growth and employment in Europe. Norway will draw up a similar plan — eNorway — based on Norwegian circumstances. The EU Summit to be held in June will adopt a final action plan with clear, overarching strategic objectives for the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in Europe. The decisions taken in the EU will have a very high impact on Norway. It will therefore be necessary to integrate the networks created and the programmes established. We must bet offensively. According to a survey carried out by Eurostat, 75 pst goes. Norwegian exports to the EU. The EU will therefore also be one of our main partners in IT, in particular to ensure that Norwegian IT industry is introduced into the market. I want to contribute by being a door opener, among others. to the EU. At the end of May, I will open a research, development and IT forum in Brussels for Norwegian actors with the aim of exerting greater influence. The Government will highlight the Norwegian position in all relevant forums internationally. The OECD provides inter alia: emphasis on analysing the role of authorities in the new economy. Norway is taking an active part in the work and will continue to assess national measures. The government will initiate bilateral cooperation with Sweden at the official level, and in June I will travel to Finland to learn about how they have managed to link universities, research and innovation in the research park in Oulo. In addition, we have taken initiatives to establish closer contact with the United Kingdom, which has a great dynamic in its efforts to lead the country into the new economy. I will also bet on export cooperation with important countries in Asia. It will also be important to use information and communication technologies actively in the aid policy, which the Minister for Aid had to say. Because if one provides a PC with access to the network of a school class in Africa, one of the world’s libraries is available. There is a need for stronger coordination of IT policies. That is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will become the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, responsible for coordinating the Government’s efforts in this area. In this context, the Ministry will be strengthened in a number of fields. The new department will be an e-Ministry of Industry and Trade – a department of IT, industry and commerce. I become the eMinist, responsible for the government's IT policy. Furthermore, we want to restructure the way we work. Greater emphasis shall be placed on project work across departments and ministries. If we are to convert Norway, we must first show the will and ability to convert within the departments. An adhoc-based State Secretary Group, led by the eCoordinator – the so-called eEnvoyen – in the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have an important role to play in coordinating and creating pressure in IT policy. The task is to be responsible for overall policy and strategy in this area — and for the eNorway plan. The eCoordinator shall coordinate IT policy between departments, follow up plans and notify them by rolling them, and each month report to the Prime Minister on developments in Norway in the field of IT, and be responsible for following up the six-month rolling of the eNorway plan, where a first version is planned to be completed by the end of June. A Technology and Innovation Forum will also be established. It shall consist of entrepreneurs, researchers and heavy-duty operators. The forum is led mainly by the eMinistry, but the Prime Minister will also lead the forum. The idea is that there will be a powerful interaction body to speed up the implementation of key areas of ICT. The Technology Council will have a new and more offensive mandate and new composition. The Council shall be transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and shall follow trends, advise and take initiatives for projects and other actions. The Joint e-commerce Forum has already been signaled to continue. However, the mandate and composition will be reviewed in order to extend it, if appropriate. The transition to the new economy will lead to major changes in many industries, and we will ensure close contact with employee organisations, especially with the focus on e-commerce. The Ministry of Industry and Trade will take over the EU-related research programmes and different forums. This will give rise to increased contact with stakeholders in eEurope. We will also try to gain access to the eEurope expert and working groups. Furthermore, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade will be responsible for the ten regional research foundations in Norway, which, together with the SND and the Council of Exports, can better ensure systematic and coordinated efforts by vis-à-vis knowledge and IT companies. Norway is lagging behind with the countries around us. Innovation capability too weak: R & D efforts are lower than in the countries that surround us. R & D results are lower and innovations are not commercialised. Innovative products do not reach the international markets. Norway is thus encircled by countries that are more attractive hosts for industrial activities. A Chinese saying says, ‘Crise is all progress mother’, and this is the challenge for Norway. Our life as a commodity supplier of a scarce commodity on the world market has exposed many of the necessary changes we are facing. Several of the countries around us have had deep industrial crises in advance of the changes they have undergone. Norway remains a commodity exporter: 54 pst. of our total exports of goods in 1997 were oil and gas. Only 15 pst. exports in 1998 were technology-based. The knowledge-based part of Norwegian business mainly serves a Norwegian market. It is a priority task to increase the content of knowledge and technology and to find appropriate ways to measure it through reference testing systems. The EU is actively working with such systems, and we will follow this work closely and hope that we can participate in it. However, the new knowledge economy is not just about new high-tech enterprises in satellite and microtechnology or programme development – enterprises that are based directly on the Norwegian research and knowledge base. The new technology is also not just about the new technologies of IT or the Internet. Instead, the new economy is about new sources of competitiveness, the ability to innovate, to create new products, to explore and challenge new markets by using the new technology, by including IT and e-commerce in business development and strategies. This applies in all industries, whether it be industry, services, commerce or service, high or low technology. And I want to say to Norwegian business managers: if you don't see the Internet as an opportunity, it will soon be a threat to the company! Increased emphasis on IT and research is central to boosting innovation in business. The government has asked the Norwegian Research Council to develop a strategy for IT research. This strategy will be presented in the government budget for next year, but priority objectives will also be set in the first version of eNorway in June. The government will also focus on the research and technology cooperation in EUREKA and the EU’s Fifth Framework Programme, which is an important partner for Norwegian enterprises. Learning is the key to all of us into the new economy, at school, in further education, through working life — all our lives. Increasing the rate of change in society, technological development, increased international competition and globalisation of the economy make new demands for competence. Society requires more flexible ways of organising education, work and leisure. The business community is making new demands on competence and how we acquire competence. Many claim that in the knowledge-based economy there will be a greater need for creative, collaborative and multidisciplinary skills. This also wants the government to encourage. At the same time, business often refers to the growing needs of IT professionals, more than educational institutions can meet today. Training institutions must therefore be given more flexibility so that they can adapt more easily and meet the changing needs of industry. I don't think the solution is support schemes for organisations, but more commitment to the education sector and to the development of skills in business – an interaction between the public and private sectors. Here, it is important to establish venues for dialogue between business, government and government. Much of the competition, especially in the IT industry, is likely to focus on labour and skills. I will actively follow up on the reform of skills, where it is particularly important from my point of view to ensure a provision of continuing training that is more adapted to the needs of the labour market. It is necessary to establish a good dialogue between business and educational institutions on an effective and user-adapted training provision. We need to be even better at exploiting the educational opportunities offered by the use of ICT and the Internet in education. ICT must have a natural and central role both as a learning method and as a learning resource. Therefore, it is important that we follow up the efforts of teachers on their skills and on-the-job training. The government will modernise and renew general government. The management shall use information and communication technologies in a systematic manner to provide better service to users. We need to make more efficient use of resources, including to create better coordination within state administration. Accessibility, quality and efficiency can be improved through the use of telemedicine solutions, which particularly benefit patients in the districts. However, in the health sector, much sensitive information is stored electronically. This places greater demands on IT security because of privacy considerations, and this is a priority task in the health sector. The public sector has an important role to play in terms of business. This role shall be used to seek electronic solutions. The government will develop a ‘daily management’. Just as I as a bank customer today can check the account, pay bills, apply for loans, etc. Directly online, you will also be required to be able to provide a self-declaration, apply for a job or check the status of a children's garden application – 24 hours a day. Good examples of such 24-hour, electronic public services are the Equation Act, the Labour Market Act and the Brønn Island Health Registers. Technology use is not an end in itself, but an instrument. The technology is going to help us solve the same problems better and more efficiently than before, and it's going to help us solve new problems and work in new ways. It is an important objective for general government to use the technology for conversion and better quality in service production and provision of services. But despite all the challenges: digital society will be a better society. New technologies will free labour and resources. It is a goal of the Government to exploit the new technology to further develop the welfare society. This requires that the potential of the Norwegian economy be exploited, while at the same time succeeding in including everyone in the information society. Welfare and industrial policy are closely linked. We are a small country, but have no one to lose. The IT industry must also move inwards. We read in the newspaper Tuesday, April 25 this year that the industry is almost chemically free of women leaders. We have to change this. The Norwegian IT industry has now passed the petroleum sector on the market. So far this year, 465 new Internet companies are established – an increase of 53 pst. from last year! It is an exciting development, but still Norwegian IT industry is relatively smaller than in several of our competitors. I have taken the initiative to cooperate more closely with the social partners – on the employer’s side, both NHO, HSH and others. And the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade now assesses concrete export cooperation with the IT industry on the initiative of the industry itself. At the same time, there is a limit to where the state role decreases, and the industry itself takes responsibility. An important state task will be to take a thorough review of the State Instrument to coordinate it, so that we can stimulate innovation and increase regional investment in IT. We will also contribute to pilot projects specifically dedicated to HSH. On the Internet, we're all neighbors. This offers opportunities in a number of rural areas in Norway. In Velfjorden south of Nordland, a Velfjord portal is now being launched on the Internet. It can be used to illustrate the possibilities in District Norway. Teams and organisations get their own side and password, so they can publish information about what happens. That way, the Velfjord will get a self-updated online. There's no locality there already. At Velfjord.com, the first mall will be built. There will be an overview of the second-hand market and the most reasonable and best online shops. Suddenly, the world and the community get a little closer. Together, this helps to give more citizens the motivation to connect to the Internet, while information on the built in several languages can attract tourists to natural experiences. The winners of the future are those who share knowledge. Digital Norway will be a better society for everyone. The Internet and globalisation make the world both global and local at the same time. The philosopher Elouardes said in the book «About Time and Space in Our Time» that the center of the world is everywhere and with us. We are becoming part of the international community, with all this entailing new impulses and increased competition for Norwegian business. At the same time, we gain increasing awareness of our own identity and local culture, even though we have been used to pizza, wok, pesto and taco for the longest time. For us, the challenge is to enjoy diversity and to draw out goodness and not cevinism in relation to new and foreign cultures. Norway shall lead the digital society. The dimensions are clear, the road is challenging and the ground is steep. If we're going to do this, we're going to have to make some tough choices. The old time must give way to the new one. Everyone has to be there, so it won't be easy. The government invites the entire community to participate. The challenge is primarily to our business life and to the Norwegian people. Only you can lead this revolution. We will contribute and do our own: by facilitating by clarifying objectives, plans and ambitions by motivating and stimulating demands by educating by transforming and renewing through partnerships with businesses and workers in both the private and public sectors; The government promises power of action and commitment. Work, knowledge and creativity are our most important national wealth. Our task is to redeem the talents and the good ideas. We have no time to lose. We want to create an information society for everyone. Norway is the society of opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e621	The President will suggest that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade be given the opportunity to deal with the matter in a later meeting. - This is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e633	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 40 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Worker's Party 60 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Bastesen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of changing lines of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers for each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President sees it as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e644	First, I have to correct a bug in the configuration. It concerns page 37, the length of the obligation section. In the second paragraph, the right shall be removed from the first sentence, but they shall remain in effect from the next sentence. That's what they say. – Initially, I would say that there are not many cases the Stortinget deals with, which are covered with as much interest outside among people like this case here. From all sides of the country, the Committee and I myself, as rapporteur, have received enquiries from organisations and individuals. And they've been mostly positive enquiries. It underlines that agriculture is an industry of great importance across the whole country – whether we are talking about Jären, Finnmark, Sunnmaere or Hedmark, and that people are most concerned about its future. It also underlines the importance of the so-called multifunctional role of Norwegian agriculture and must continue to play. As can be seen from this position, a broad majority has been created behind the policy to be pursued in this important area in the coming years. It's worth noting that the parties that overwhelmingly form the majority do not have one particular comment. The games have signed up on all the issues. It is very important in itself, because it can help to give actors in the industry a greater degree of security for the future. In fact, almost any investment in the agricultural sector is long-term. It is not in the industry it bets if the motive is maximum profit as soon as possible. We also need to recognise that primary performance, especially in most cases, is not so high that larger loan-funded investments can be disbursed in a short time. This long-termity presents to the authorities the requirement of predictability. In this situation, it is important that a broad majority of the Biggest has been created between parties who not only have a positive attitude towards the goal of a viable agriculture throughout the country but are also willing to extend far to achieve it. I have not said that agriculture will not meet demanding challenges, because it will do the most. For example, a lot of people are referring to: that external pressure for lower prices and more imports will only increase. But the actors can then know that they have a majority in Stortinget behind them that will not run from their share of responsibility. It's especially important for recruitment. Some have expressed surprise that the Workers' Party and the Centre have found each other so much in this matter. Let me therefore remind you that on several occasions it has been claimed that Norwegian agricultural policy should be developed through such cooperation. So it's not about any new line from the Labour Party. In addition, it is also clear that the notification determines that the starting point is the main agricultural objectives that have been the basis for policy-making in recent years. And it shows, among other things: to Stortingen's treatment of St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93. It was presented, as you know, by a labor party government with the Gunhild Eyegagen as State Council. When the Workers' Party found that we were able to stand behind the message submitted, it was because the communication did not at any point add up to a rematch on the policy that has been pursued in the 1990s. For this reason, the representative Ansgar Gabrielsen takes from the Right wrong when, in an interview with the Nations, he claims that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre is an artificial one because, in his view, it does not reflect the Labour Party's policy. I can understand that it is hard for the Right to be placed on the sideline, but the suggestion that the Workers' Party has designed its agricultural policy to buy peace after the government change falls on its own unfairness. Most people know that the Workers' Party does not develop its policies based on tactical considerations, but from what we think is right at all times to create the society we want. Some have said that any problem has a simple solution – and it is wrong. In my view, this applies very well to agriculture, how simple solutions will unduly create new problems, at least if we stick to the political objectives that are in addition to food production itself. If we are to ensure the settlement, maintenance of cultural landscapes, production and processing across the country and at the same time lower food prices, there is no easy solution. This has to be a difficult balancing process. When we also deal with a chain of actors with partly conflicting internal interests, it does not reduce either the task or the requirement for balance. It is also worth noting that a unanimous committee stresses that it is the sum impact of the different functions of agriculture that represents the total benefits of industry. And it's a unanimous committee that assumes that an attractive agricultural industry and active food production across the country is an important basis for solving key societal tasks in a good way. So it's not just the working party and the center parties that have to find the balance. I would say that this task is greater for the Right and the Advance Party if they are also serious about such wording. And we're going to think that they do. In order for us to have agriculture throughout the country in the future, it is vital that we keep the geographical division of labour we have today. Without it, we will kick bones under all our fine formulations of settlement, living settlements and beautiful cultural landscapes. The costs and challenges that this policy represents must be addressed. The same applies to environmental handicaps, including: relating to transport. Farming must still be worthwhile in the district of Norway. Gardeners and museum managers cannot maintain their residence alone. Specifying the channelling policy, as the Advance Party and the Right add, will really be reinvigorating centralisation. Recently, there has been a strong focus on the large increase in border trade with our neighbouring countries, in particular with Sweden. This is a trend that has a major negative impact on Norwegian agriculture, especially at a time of overproduction. If the EU succeeds in its work on Agenda 2000 and we do nothing at all, this development will only continue with increasing strength. And the problems will tower up with us. Border trade may illustrate better than anything else that all actors have a self-interest in contributing with the authorities to deal with this situation. That said, it must also be said that the special Norwegian conditions mean that under no circumstances will we be able to compete with the rest of Europe on commodity prices. And it's not just our desire for a multifunctional agriculture that makes it impossible. Our geographical conditions, and not least the climate, set their clear limits. However, it is still possible to make things better and more cost-effective than today, and that potential we have to exploit. Studies in milk production show, for example: a significant variation in costs between uses with relatively equal production within the same geographical area. The cost difference between the most efficient and the least effective fifth of uses is as large as 24-28 pst. One of the objectives of agricultural policy will therefore be to facilitate more efficient resource use. Some have pointed to the importance of the food tax on border trade. The majority of the Committee assumes that this issue will be discussed in the context of the announced VAT notification, which can be seen in the context. In addition, the majority has referred to some facts and claims that we ask the Government to carefully assess in the preparation of the notification. Norwegian agriculture is characterised by small holdings, which is a broad political consensus that we should have. But it also has its price. Several studies have shown that there are significant economies of scale related to milk production. This applies not only to the costs but also to the possibilities for users to take vacations and other social benefits. Better framework conditions have led to an increasing interest in this type of cooperation. However, the majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that it is not desirable for joint ventures to lead to the establishment of entities which are very large under Norwegian circumstances. The majority also agree that there is a need for a restriction on the number of participants, but does not support the Government’s proposal on three. In addition, the majority also consider that a limit on the quota size per year is necessary. co-operation. On this basis, the majority ask the Government to return to the Grand Duchy with proposals for restrictions and to assume that it does so in connection with the spring agricultural settlement. I would also like to point out the importance of flexible legislative practices in this area, so that in individual cases the legislation does not prevent cooperation from being desired. Here too, the great differences in our long-range country must be taken into account. I mentioned the initial performance of agriculture. It is difficult to draw exact comparisons with income trends in other industries and population groups. The total income of agricultural households is in line with other groups. However, it is a fact that they increasingly withdraw their income outside the use. At the same time, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that in 1999 the farmer's remuneration for labour and equity amounted to approximately 60 pst. of wages and salaries paid by industrial workers. I strongly stress that a direct comparison here is not possible. The majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of an active policy that ensures active farmers' income development and social conditions in line with other social groups. I consider it appropriate to mention that the wording of the Committee on the Development of Income is a reinforcement in relation to the notification. However, good income formulations by the Storting are of little use if the practical conditions do not allow the objectives to be achieved. And then dealing with the problems associated with overproduction becomes crucial. Overproduction now costs agriculture well over DKK 1 billion a year. In my view, there can be no doubt that this is the industry's biggest performance challenge. As far as structural policy is concerned, the Government will focus on measures to ensure the operational basis of active agricultural production. The last round of buying-in of milk quotas showed that several of the largest uses in many buildings sold their quota. There may be many reasons for this, but that one of the reasons was too poor in terms of labour input, there can be no doubt. We have to take care of the so-called full-time farmer. That's 80 pst. of all uses are combined use, stressing once again the need for a balanced policy, because without the combined use, Building Norway stops. And without active agricultural production, the basis for other housing will also be seriously weakened. The Government states in the Communication that there is a need to redeploy the financial instruments of the agricultural agreement towards those uses which have a resource base to make an important contribution to employment and income. The majority support this view and the need for moderate development towards larger holdings. The government also points to the need to be able to influence the structure of use in order to strengthen the resource base of the holdings. In this respect, I have noted in particular that the Ministry will take the initiative in overall monitoring the scope and speed of voluntary rationalisation, and that it should cover the turnover of ownership and the volume of rental. I agree that such monitoring may provide a basis for continuous evaluation of the instruments the authorities need in order to be able to influence the structure of use in such a way that both income opportunities and housing reasons are taken into account. A question to which many have been concerned is the limit on when concession treatment is to be required in the case of the acquisition of built-up agricultural property. The government suggests in the message that the limit should be set to 15 dekar. The background for raising the limit from today's 5 dekar is the desire for a larger supply of properties of this magnitude, thereby strengthening the settlement. As indicated in the vote, the majority suggests that this limit be increased to 20 decaries. In the view of the Labour Party, it is important that we are willing to change existing legislation when social development so warrants. In this case, it seems clear that today's rules do not work as intended. Then we have to try something new. Although 20 decars in total will give a significant area and a significant number of properties, I don't think it will have any significant negative consequences. The possibilities for people to settle down and, for example, intensive use of profitable niche production will be increased. Should the pressure for leisure purposes in some municipalities lead to undesirable effects, the municipality may – as today – ask for regulations that invalidate the freedom of concession for all or part of the municipality. It is also a prerequisite for the regulation to be designed to ensure the maintenance of the cultural landscape. Finally, I would like to highlight the role of the food industry in maintaining jobs and agriculture throughout the country. It is important that the Government succeed in designing the instrument system, taking into account both the operational disadvantages in the districts and the special circumstances of the RAC industry. As I said, both the authorities and industry face major challenges in the coming years, challenges that will still require both innovation and change. I would like to stress strongly that those challenges cannot be just the responsibility of the authorities. It is also, to the greatest extent, the self-interest of economic operators to meet the challenges offensively. Otherwise, they just risk being run over. Moreover, it is my experience that if you want to change, those who are most affected must be active co-players. Only then can you succeed. But you can't expect active co-players if the requirement is that they help to erase themselves. I feel that through the setting we are dealing with today, it is a good basis for a forward-looking interaction between the authorities and the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e703	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e706	The Labour Party has had a significant impact on agricultural policy in Norway after the war, and thus also has a great responsibility for the policies that have been pursued. If we look slightly beyond the borders of Norway, we see the progressive agricultural policy pursued in all other Nordic countries. In fact, Finland is in the middle of this tough process now, but they have realized that they cannot run in old and up-to-date tracks and are willing to take the change even if it is tough. Looking at Norway, the total amount of support for agriculture in the period 1972-1996 is 900 billion 1996-krona, 900 billion DKK as an estimate in the form of grants and aid. Screening support is included. In spite of these huge injections, in the same period we have had Norway's largest population migration from the districts to the central struts. We've got approx. halving the number of farmers in Norway, in particular the number of farmers in Norway has fallen sharply. We can't say that it's been a very successful policy. We had believed that the Workers' Party with this message should have taken over the new time and become more progressive. I, who was in this committee also in the last period, felt that Gunhild Eyeågen ventured to take the first steps, as St. prp. No 8 for 1992-93, Developed agriculture, where she put consumers in the centre, would have lower food prices, more competition, etc. Now we can see that the Eyering line in the Workers' Party has not been followed up. My question to the President-in-Office will be in this context: why has the Labour Party not now, as the largest party and with the statements made by both Prime Minister and Central People's and Trust-elects, taken the opportunity to launch a new agricultural policy in line with time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e715	The Labour Party acknowledges its responsibility for agricultural policy after the war, and I will claim that we have reason to look back at that period of pride. It's a strange way to figure out when you take care of decades and then sum up the public funds. If you do it all over the line, it can get a lot of strange looks. We have a move today, and you recognize that, and we have a decrease in the number of farmers as well. But there is reason to ask: what would the situation have been like if we had not pursued such an offensive and constructive agricultural policy as we have pursued in the years we have been behind us? I don't know if I'm going to take the Progress Party very seriously, but I have to remind you that the Progress Party is also taking note of the message that says we're going to have a viable agriculture across the country, which says we're going to have a combined use, and that the combined users are going to give the development opportunities they need, etc. At the same time, however, proposals have been made in the agricultural policy to eliminate almost all customs duties in order to obtain real competition from abroad. The 1999 budget reduced transfers by DKK 21⁄2 billion on a half-yearly basis, i.e. by DKK 5 billion on an annual basis. The consequences of this policy can only be seen. We see in the nations yesterday that the National Assembly of the Progress Party has said that they should end this agricultural policy. But then it's okay to be aware that if one ends something, it's something that falls out, not just something, but everything falls out. To be honest, I think Hedstrom should be more concerned with the policies of the Progress Party than with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e726	The central government and the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Gjønnes, stressed the importance of shaping an agricultural policy that invited them to join both the industry and outside the industry. With Stortinget's connection to the plural comments today, this goal has been achieved. This gives both the industry, the food industry and consumers important and long-term clarifications in the context of food and agricultural policy. The centre party and the Labour Party have – and I will now actually have the opportunity to give praise to the case-speakers Gunnar Breimo for – cooperated in a very constructive way, not least thanking the good and inclusive way in which the case-speaker worked to find solutions instead of speculating on details. One has laid the basis for an ambitious and wise agricultural policy for the years to come. I record that right by his agricultural policy spokesman, Ansgar Gabrielsen, this is a purely transitory phenomenon, and he clearly knows better where the Workers' Party belongs than they do themselves. I want to challenge the case spokesperson, Gunnar Breimo, on the following: Will the Labour Party, on the basis that has now been laid down, seek cooperation with the Centre to provide security and sustainability both for the nutritionists and for the food industry and the consumers in the future, or will a culture of intrigue and follow the line that the representative Gabrielsen is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e737	First, I must thank you for the rose. It was nice to hear it. I might also return some praise to former Minister of Agriculture Gjønnes, who saw that it was important to be able to create a majority in the Grand Duchy for a constructive policy in the future. I am very pleased with the result of the treatment we now have in Stortinget, the work that the Committee has done, and the conclusions we have reached. One important reason for this is, of course, that the Gjønnes was so sensible that he did not rematch all kinds of bows and edges in the policy that has been pursued. As for further cooperation, I will be careful to commit to it. I just want to return by saying that it has very important how the center goes about this policy. If they are willing to follow up on what has now been written together, and if they are willing to take the grips that are absolutely necessary, it is clear that the Workers' Party will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e751	I believe that all those who are concerned with predictable conditions and long-termity – whether today’s message should have a long-term perspective, or whether it should be a passing phenomenon – are going to care about entering the Evening Post online. It will be shown that the government's plans for the agricultural negotiations of the year are diametrically breaking with the content of today's notification from the majority parties. Breimo says there are many people who have thought that there should be an intersection of Norwegian agricultural policy between the centre and the Workers' Party. That has not been the case in the last ten years. This has not been the case until March of this year. And the fact is that there are even more people who notice today that the Workers' Party has broken with its previous policies, and who ask how it is possible that a party that was willing in opposition to go as far as to draw the message of the day has joined Morten Lund and Gjønnes, and not only sewn together, but with double seams – each benevolent word – provided a product today that is unable to respond to the many challenges that the Workers' Party faced in the opposition, namely how to deal with concepts such as ‘overproduction’ and ‘high food prices’, how to deal with international agreements, which say much, much more than that saw to the degrees of non-obligatory ones that are being addressed in today's communication. And last, how are you able to when, as Breimo was in and referred to, 80 pst. of the farmers are part-time farmers, to contribute by means of a tax trap so as to facilitate the conditions for continued increased and dramatic overproduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e760	First of all, I would say that I am not willing to use the Evening Post as a witness of truth in all contexts. The evening post has many good chronicles about different conditions in society that it is well worth reading. But I now reserve the right to have opinions even on what is right in the future, and also assessments of what has happened. Then it is not true that it is only now in March that the Centre and the Workers' Party have been able to meet. After all, we have voted in favour of most of the major issues relating to agriculture, in particular the agricultural negotiations. It's not many times that it's been broken. Otherwise, in the assessment of drawing the message, we had – I don't hide it – a discussion internally about the tax treatment. It's not a secret. It might have been a hard argument to retract the message. However, when it was compared with all the positive wordings contained in the communication and the measures proposed here, we found that it was reasonable to leave the message behind. If we had withdrawn it, we would, for example, have withdrawn it. have had at least one year's delay in the implementation of the necessary grips, and we would also not have been able to put the necessary lead on the agricultural settlement that is now under way. Otherwise, I have to ask the representative of Kristiansen to think a little bit about what is stated in the communication about the tax regime, about how to intervene in order to get the effect balanced, so that there will not be just one group of uses that get the effect of it. Otherwise, you could ask for the Right-wing alternatives in terms of the relationship to border trade, etc. There are no such proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e770	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e773	The agricultural policy pursued at all times is important for a country such as Norway. It must be such that it stimulates the development of an efficient, rational and most profitable industry in our long-term country, as we see in the Progress Party. As a representative of this party, I had hoped that the agricultural notification would mean the start of a completely necessary job with the conversion and efficiency of the Norwegian waste management. But I was sadly wrong. There are some changes that are mostly cosmetic. The fact that the Workers’ Party did not draw the message provided by the Centre Government means that the Workers’ Party has chosen the Centre Parties as its partner in order to obtain a political majority for the main lines of the Communication. Then we are not going a single step forward towards a more rational and efficient agricultural industry. I had hoped that the message had been pulled when the Workers' Party took up the government offices, and then to put forward a new one. It's very surprising from the statements of the leading workers' party people that that didn't happen. There is clearly a big difference between being the case-rapporteur, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the councillor, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. That Stoltenberg and Hanssen signal that tax relief for farmers is acceptable came as a surprise, because the Workers' Party has been very sceptical about special tax rules for individual industries. Evil tongues claim it is an attempt to bribe a select group, and directly across all Stoltenberg has said as an economist. He stands on tax reforms with low rates and a broad tax base with equal rules for all. It shows you what you can go with. Minor governments must be good at swallowing camels. Stoltenberg and Hanssen seem to have great skills in this gastronomic specialty. The Gjønnes has not only left the office to their successor, it seems that the slippers also fit. In a situation where there is a need for major changes in agricultural policy, we will only have small adjustments. The government chooses to push the problems ahead. We had in the longest hope that the Government had understood the meaning of this, chose to go a little further in its policy and sought subsidiary support from the Advance Party and the Right. Then there would be a majority of absolutely necessary decisions that would speed up the structural process in agriculture. Who wants to lose most on a lack of change in agricultural policy? Well, that's of course the whole country, but for us it's important to point out that the biggest loser is actually the Norwegian farmer. To the specific case with the introduction of a special scheme for the self-employed in the food production industry of up to NOK 36 000, up to NOK 10 000 in reduced tax, I would say: Firstly, the Progress Party is for lower taxes, but tax reductions should take the form of general schemes, equally for all industries and enterprises. It would be unreasonable to have selective tax rules favouring one industry with relatively small value creation in addition, while other industries which contribute much more to the community and are in decline should be penalised. Secondly, a compensation scheme in the tax equation of the magnitude being outlined will not be sufficient to prevent the differences we have in food prices today from further increasing between the EU and Norway when Agenda 2000 is implemented. EU agricultural policy has clear objectives of reducing prices by 10-20 pst. the next few years. When it is estimated that the effects of the full implementation of Agenda 2000 will be more than DKK 1 billion, it means that Norwegian consumers will have to cover greater price differences, making it even more profitable to trade food, for example. in Denmark and Sweden. And third, the compensation system can help to accentuate today's agricultural policy. With a tax carrot of NOK 36 000, many will hardly be able to escape a small use to contribute to the restructuring of the use size. As the vast majority of farmers are part-time farmers, it may be a good idea to own a small use even if the return is small. It is a disappointment that the communication does not draw up any new guidelines for agricultural policy to be able to get out of the situation today, and agricultural policy has run into a corner, and I will give you some examples of this. Through a lengthy process that took place during the interwar period, farmers have gradually been deprived of their ownership, their right to self-determination, and handed over and made dependent on the favor of politicians. All essential ownership functions have been taken over by politicians and bureaucrats through concession laws, so that farmers cannot freely buy or sell agricultural land and choose the form of farming, not even determine the number of hens or the number of pigs they want to produce, could not start milk production without having bought milk quotas from the country, and much more. The Norwegian farmer is basked and tied on the hands and feet of quota and regulation arrangements, and if they are not followed, and the farmer thinks and acts himself, yes, then he gets criminalised. There is therefore a strong need for a new agricultural policy that requires radical changes to the overall business environment of agriculture and rural areas. In order to achieve a sufficient reduction in commodity prices, changes need to be made, primarily in the underlying agricultural structures. It is high time to provide the self-employed in food production with opportunities and revenues as a result of increased competition and more efficient farming. As part of this, agriculture must be deregulated. The regulatory responsibility of the cooperative must be replaced by competition law in order to achieve lower consumer prices. The Marketing Act has authorised the Council to levy levies on agricultural products for the purpose of regulating the market. This is stated by the competition authorities in the 1999 Annual Report of the Competition Authority: ‘Market regulation at the level of turnover contributes to limited competition in several agricultural sectors. One reason for low-functioning competition is the role of interoperability operators as market regulators in the various sectors.’» This gives cooperative operators a dominant market position. So this is pushing up the prices, and it's completely unnecessary. Therefore, the law on turnover and other legislation preventing competition should be repealed. Furthermore, more room for self-development must be given to industrious farmers, through inter alia. to remove concessional limits in the Law on Acquired Livestock Management, to remove all production restrictions, to liquidate restrictions on the sale of agricultural and forestry property, to abolish housing and operational obligations and much more. Only production restrictions to ensure the environment should be maintained, for example: requirements for spreading area for manure. This type of requirement does not destroy competition in the market. From what has been said, it is clear that we also want to wind up the system of agricultural agreements. It is a comprehensive and unbridled business agreement, a complicated deal with a large red tape linked to unbridled circumstances, where only a few people have the full overview when important questions are settled. In the next round, it means the detailed management of the Norwegian farmer who is basked and tied to the hands and feet of grant and regulation schemes. The number of grant schemes has increased in number and has now risen to over 100. Each grant scheme has a detailed set of rules, and a large bureaucracy is needed to manage this whole apparatus. Thousands of public servants raise wages to keep track of all payments, applications and controls. The need for conversion is obvious. It must be a goal to get most of these bureaucrats into more productive work. After all, we are in the middle of a debate on increased labour migration to Norway. A part of meeting the need for labour should be to free people from the agricultural bureaucracy and some farmers who, after retraining, may find their place in society through jobs in establishments contributing to significant economic value creation. Agenda 2000 in the EU and the WTO agricultural agreement will force increased competition from our neighbouring countries. We risk that new groups of Norwegians will change their trade patterns by trading in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, thus contributing to increased overproduction of Norwegian agricultural products. As of the current year, the WTO Agreement sets clear limits on Norwegian opportunities for overproduction through regulatory export. It underlines the importance of liquidating planning schemes and replacing them with free competition. As it now works, a large number of aid measures and administrative prices are stimulated for overproduction, which in the next round have required a comprehensive instrument to keep down or get rid of part of the production. It can be called a gas/brake system that causes overall problems and costs production – good examples of a planned economic approach. Wasn't there anything about the last Soviet state a Swedish minister said? Perhaps it was the Norwegian agricultural policy and all the rules and regulations that he thought about. The reality is that it is similar to a Soviet state. It is worrying that the notification of agricultural products then to those degrees lacks creative solutions that can improve survival and improve the potential for further development in the industry. The advantage of this is that the current refusal of action is likely to impose new and radical initiatives relatively quickly, especially in the light of international developments. We hope that the political majority will soon come to the realization that the longer you wait, the greater the problems. And that could mean that large parts of agriculture are being uncompetitive or have to carry out a conversion process that will put deep traces behind them. Finally, some comments on the two Document No. The eight proposals that we are dealing with in connection with the agricultural notification and for which the party representatives are proposers or co-sponsors. One concerns a proposal to abolish the regulation of the poultry sector by taking this sector out of the law on turnover, as an attempt to undermine the Stalinist law on turnover. In the case of poultry products, there is a short period from the decision on production until the product is ready for sale. This should allow for production planning with adaptation of production to consumption. The market for bearers should be manageable in order to avoid over-production and achieve more efficient resource use even outside market regulation. It is also important to stress that the production of regulated products such as chicken is being undertaken as a pure commercial activity. Production also has no significant agricultural policy significance and includes very few producers. It may be appropriate to comment on the letter from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Committee on the proposal, which is a unisoned defence of the existing regulatory system we have today. The Ministry claims that the production of chickens for fattening has a long production cycle. That is not true, because the production cycle of chicken gives the following image: one week for the collection of eggs, three weeks for hatching and a 32-day average for live chicken before slaughter. This is going to be approx. 60 days from the collection of eggs to ready-to-eat chicken and it would therefore be advisable for operators to adapt to a market if market regulation is removed. Furthermore, any seasonal and geographical fluctuations are used as arguments for maintaining regulation. Since chicken production has an equal pressure throughout the year and production will have to take place around established slaughterhouses, this is weakly justified and falls on its own unfairness. There is no need for a regulatory obligation to ensure natural market fluctuations. In addition, it may be appropriate to ask why the liquidation of the market regulation would endanger many negative effects on primary production. In this context, it may be pointed out that we have positive experience with deregulation of turkeys and chickens. Why isn't this commented? I'm just asking. The second proposal concerns the composition of the Economic and Social Council and the Committee of the Economic and Social Committee. The direct reason for the proposal is the Council Decision of 19 March last year to restrict the universality of Tine, which is now followed by the Government, and means that competition in Norwegian agriculture becomes a pure parody where Tine, with the government's blessing, can be guaranteed an approximate monopoly. Effective competition on the processing side is halted and thus the possibility of lower consumer prices. It may be appropriate to recall that the milk sector is the most pervasive in agricultural production and that it costs taxpayers an estimated DKK 5 billion per year. The Progress Party and the Right have therefore made a proposal to change the composition of the Council of Turnover in a more consumer-friendly direction by giving the majority of members representing broad economic and social interests, at the expense of the representatives of agriculture, who are now in a majority vote following a kind of goat and oat travel arrangements. We note that there is still a significant majority in this Chamber that wants agricultural interests to use their pure majority in the Council of Turnovers to regulate and determine the competitive conditions of a market in which agriculture is itself an operator and a party. This is probably an example of the fact that we have not come off the mark in terms of renewal in the agricultural sector. I would like to raise the proposal of the Advance Party and the Right to lift the regulation of the feather sector, referred to in the Innst. S. No 165.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e831	Those proposals should be addressed during the examination of the next case. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e836	When I hear the representative Hedstrøm's distribution of Norwegian agricultural policy and the regulatory mechanisms there, it reminds me of the patient who came to the dentist and was supposed to have dental regulation, but the dentist brushed out all the teeth. In fact, what Hedstrom is also doing with Norwegian agricultural policy is a long way off when he is going to remove all regulation and thus remove most of the farmers. The representative Hedstrom referred to in a reply to the representative Breimo how the centralisation and termination of use had occurred in the last ten years. But it would have been nice to know how the representative Hedstrøm thinks that Norwegian agriculture in District Norway would have looked like if the Agriculture Policy of the Progress Party had been implemented. When the representative Hedstrom describes the Progress Party's agricultural policy, it is in one way to describe a development that I'm pretty sure will lead us to have farmers left in just some of the best agricultural areas we have in our country. Then it's no wonder that the representative Hedstrom in this case has completely ignored all the recordings we've received from far and near, from landing to landing, from organization to organization, that we have to make sure that we have an agricultural policy that takes the whole country into action. Therefore, the Progress Party in this matter is completely on the side of where they otherwise use to be, i.e. where the opinion is best suited.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e843	The representative Opseth started by getting into the dentistry and the dental regulation. I want to say here we have two very different things. A patient with a dentist usually has a diagnosis or a disease, but what we're talking about today are healthy and workable people who get huge transfers. There is no signal from the majority that this should be reduced in any way, but there are international agreements, through the WTO and others, which have the possibility to govern this in the long term, not the majority of Norwegian politicians. The Progress Party takes a realistic view of agricultural policy. I am going to be quite honest: of course, people can live in Norway all over the country, but they cannot demand that the public should deal with all sorts of service measures, subsidies and support schemes on every single nose. We must have a change of agricultural policy in the rural areas as well. The Bergen researchers have looked at this and made an investigation that shows that we can maintain the most central objectives of today's agricultural policy by growing five million deer instead of ten million, and with half as many farmers. And Normann Anesland, professor at Norway's high school of agriculture, said in 1990 through an investigation that if we use the most efficient means of production in Norwegian agriculture with the same area we have today, we can cope with 23 000 farmers. All other Western countries, my acquaintance, have started this process of rationalization. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e850	The President will remind you that speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e853	The representative Hedstrøm gave you some precise description of the restrictions imposed on farmers. The reference to the Soviet State should I wish not have come – there is a lot we don't have to follow the Swedes. That system was, as I'm sure Hedstrøm is familiar with, so far repugnant that it makes no sense to use that expression in connection with Norwegian agricultural policy. Otherwise, Hedstrøm spoke of the farmer being bristled and bound on the hands and feet of quota regulations and deprived of his right of self-determination in favour of concession laws and other so-called future-oriented considerations. I am very much in agreement with this. I would like to refer to Right-wing investigation work, 'Let go of the farmer!', which shows that we think the same way here in non-essential areas. And then I come to a question, and that's about the nodel law. I have understood that the Progress Party is a member of private property rights, and one of the most important limitations in society's way of betting and binding on agriculture is precisely the laws we have relating to inheritance rights, and in particular to nobility. Odel law is the main contribution to the promotion of personal responsibility and long-term thinking and extends beyond the lifetime of a single generation. At least as long as the concession laws are as they are, the no partial law is perhaps the most important guarantee of private ownership. Therefore, it is surprising that the Progress Party seems to have a relaxed relationship with the law of nobility, and I would like to ask the representative Hedstrom to explain what the party's view is in this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e862	I am pleased that the Right too, at least in terms of part of the regulation in the agricultural sector, wants more competition and efficiency and rationality. However, the Right should go in and discuss its view on the Sale Act. I cannot see anywhere that the Right wants to remove this law and allow competition, at least internally in Norway, to apply. So they're going to treat private and public actors in the same way, but they're not saying anything about removing the law on sales, which is proving to be a barrier to competition and making it harder to bring down food prices. As far as I know, the Right also wants to continue a system of agricultural settlement. Sweden, as far as I remember, left this scheme as the second last country in the world for approx. 10 years ago. Subsidised special scheme such as this agricultural establishment continues to support the Right. I hope that the Right will work on these things, and come to the realization that also these things should the Right Party do something about. So to the law of nobility. The Odel Act is governed by the Constitution, but not by the Progress Party programme. We now have a sample that deals with questions about the law of nobility. It will also be done by the ministry and government, so we haven't reached our final conclusions in relation to the law of nobility yet. I'm sorry I can't be ready at this point. The progress party usually has clear speech, but since the party has not concluded, I should be a little careful to express myself here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e871	However, if a Norwegian pig producer gave away the pig, the rib would have cost NOK 22 per year. kilograms more in Norway than in Sweden. Slaughtered the co-operative pig for free, ribs would have cost 19 kr per. kilograms more in Norway than in Sweden. Then you can wonder who's to blame for the high store prices. It is often advertised for 50 pst. cheaper on the frontier. However, a survey conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau, Econ and Nielsen shows that food prices are on average 12 pst. lower in Sweden than in Norway. So border prices are not representative of prices in Sweden. Ola's using 12.3 pst. of disposable income on food, Medel-Svensson uses 16,5 pst. Does the representative Hedstrøm still believe that the problems of border trade will be solved by only lowering the target prices? Why is it so uninteresting for the Progress Party to assess food VAT? We have a very strange level of food moms. With the exception of Denmark and Norway, all countries in western Europe have abolished or reduced the VAT on food.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e880	As a member of the Business Committee and as an Eastfold representative, I am extremely concerned about how thousands of thousands of Eastern folds cross the border with Sweden to buy «swine-cheap». There are huge price differences, especially on pork. There's a lot of computations being put forward, and I see the Bond Team trying on someone. But I'm going to try to say it simple: a farmer in Värmland has no concessional restrictions on how many pigs he can produce. He has limitations on health, the environment and safety, which are harmonised with Norwegian rules, but everything there gives him a advantage competitively. Then they had followed the policies of the Progress Party and removed these concession limits on our side of the border, Norwegian farmers and entrepreneurs would have a much better starting point. I think it's going to force something here, because what's happening now is that we get a huge overproduction on all of the traditional Norwegian foods. With the WTO, we can no longer dump everything abroad through the export of regulation. So my question to the majority is, are we going to burn this meat, or are we going to sell it at cheap sales here at home, so Norwegian consumers get back some of their own subsidies? So to this with food moms. The progress party says no to differentiate the VAT. We went against the slope from 21 to 23 pst. But we don't want to differentiate. One NOU in 1993 showed that the distribution effects of differentiating VAT were very small and that the pressure on agriculture was not exerted to make it more rational and efficient. There is a need to support certain groups, for example: minimum pensioners, this is done by increasing the pension rate, or families with children by increasing the amount of cash or child benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e889	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e893	I'm glad there's a broad political majority behind the message here in Stortinget. The broad majority contributes to ensuring predictable framework conditions for the industry, which is particularly important to ensure continued recruitment and value creation in Building Norway. This means that people in agriculture can have security and hope for the future, and we will be able to provide a good framework for still living communities. Multi-functional agriculture in Norway has broad political support as an important part of our rural, industrial, environmental and distribution policies. It is seen as an important player in Norwegian value creation. For those who have chosen this form of life, with little vacation, relatively long working days where the working day can be lonely and the trade union environment becomes small, this is an incredibly important political signal. This political alliance can create faith, as it exploits our national opportunities to operate and shape our own policies. At the same time, it is quite clear that this message and this setting require Norway not to become a member of the European Union, because in agriculture the EU is very little negotiable. FAO analyses and assessments show that, in some decades, we can move internationally from a situation where food resources are too large to a situation of scarcity. At the same time, food production conditions will become more uncertain due to soil erosion, water supply problems, climate change, biodiversity loss, etc. And we're recording that these changes happen faster than the researchers might have foreseen. Internationally, therefore, we will face significant challenges in meeting the need for food production in a sustainable way. This relationship must be observed in the formulation of Norwegian agricultural policy. Cheap food has its price, and even we rich countries have to pay the price once. Norway is in a unique situation as regards water resources and stability for grazing, grass and cereals production. These are factors that need to be emphasised in view of a future Norwegian agriculture. While some people think it's ridiculous that we in this squirmy, small country run agriculture, one should bring out the naked truth that the biggest challenge of world agriculture is actually to get enough water. It is the global resource that limits agricultural production and increasingly limits it. It is gratifying that there is a broad political consensus behind the emphasis on food security, both in the short and long term. In order to ensure this, it is important to develop good food safety systems in many areas. Agriculture is a long-term industry and therefore current production is a prerequisite for long-term security of supply. This needs to be re-examined in the context of soil protection, which helps to preserve the basis of production. So some of the main elements of the tools. It is particularly important that the tax treatment should be put in place. This will ensure compensation for the income of the farmer if the target prices of the agricultural agreement are now reduced as a one-off measure, and is essential in order to ensure future agriculture within the international framework of Norway today has committed itself to. Nevertheless, I would like to focus on the sales stage, where one does not seem to be directly overly obese in terms of the willingness to reduce prices, and a control system must be created that measures results in relation to the ambition of this message to lower prices to the consumer. The structural issue has been given a great deal of attention in agricultural debates. I think maybe we've put too much emphasis on this question. Nevertheless, I would like to make some reference in the message to the priority we made in the 1999 agricultural agreement, which prioritised medium-sized dairy farms with 9-16 year olds. This is an emphasis I think is right. It is positive that a value creation programme for Norwegian food production will now be launched. The objective is higher value creation by making better use of income opportunities both in primary production and processing, and seeing these things stronger in the context. In order to increase value creation in food processing and sales, there is a great need to identify and remove barriers to innovation, especially for those who produce niches and sell from the farm. The value creation programme must be based on the fact that the farmers of the future will meet entirely new challenges. It will be important to contribute to the exploitation of the new market opportunities and opportunities for income and to focus more on providing new framework conditions for entrepreneurship among the agricultural population. It is therefore necessary to stress opportunities for the acquisition of new knowledge. Consulting in different disciplines, such as: product development and also the practice of legislation, in particular in the first subparagraph, may be important measures, measures that may trigger innovation. In the development of local processing, it will be important to stimulate the development of networks involving several actors with different competences in the process of developing niche products and small scale processing. It is also appropriate to consider how better to facilitate the profitable production and sale of niche products from own farms as an important part of the local tourist offer. Consumer interests need to be emphasised in the food chain. Stronger consumer orientation of production has several aspects. It is essential that instruments contributing to good food supply and safe food continue to develop, while increasing the choice, functioning of the market and lower prices of competitive goods are important elements of consumer orientation. Such a strategy would therefore require differentiated food prices based on the willingness to pay to different customer groups for a differentiated product range. However, it will be important to be on guard against a distinction between consumers, where only those with high incomes can afford organic products and niche products. The importance of consumer protection both in relation to health/nutrition and other consumer concerns is more important than ever in order to ensure safe food for the population and also to ensure the provision of Norwegian agricultural products. A step in ensuring the safety of food for consumers is to minimise the amount of undesirable residues in food. In this context, it is important that developments in relation to genetic food are closely monitored — and we record that consumers have a high level of scepticism for genetic food — and that legislation, authorisation systems and supervision are developed in line with the use and knowledge of genetically modified organisms. It's important here to have a precautionary principle. Organic farming production contributes to food security, increased consumer choice and positive environmental impacts. Organic production is carried out with less resources purchased and more use of local resources, and can therefore actually be an element in reducing total food production while achieving the objective of more environmentally friendly agricultural production. The further investment in organic farming must, to a greater extent than in the past, be based on the whole value chain, from the primary point of view of the consumer. Here it will be absolutely essential to be able to get the market system in place, and when it is in place, that one also has enough organic products to sell. I also want to show that we're going to achieve the goal of that 10 pst. the area is managed organically, it also requires a commitment to research in organic production. Here NORWAY can play an important role. A successful district policy is a wide-ranging rural policy consisting of a varied business life, a well-developed infrastructure, service provision and the ability to build good social relations in their environment. And this is where agriculture plays an important role today. I refer to all the input we have received from almost all the municipalities in Norway. All-round business contributes to the robustness of rural areas in relation to changing market conditions. All-round and long-term agriculture provides security, and is also important in terms of recruitment and women's opportunities and conditions. And in order to make industry more socially sustainable, better arrangements for holidays and leisure time are important and to ensure a framework for continuing and continuing training that can be implemented even if you are an active business operator. In this context, the combination of agriculture and aquaculture is particularly interesting. In large parts of the country, settlement and agriculture are strongly linked to coastal resources and income opportunities. In many areas, the sea provides the most important additional income to the farm, as forests and outland do in other parts of the country. It is assumed that there are large income opportunities in marine production value creation. Agricultural policy must promote equality between both sexes. It is also important to take seriously what types of use women actually take over. If you look at farms under 50, you take as many women as men that type of farm. They are also more active in organic production. It is important to take it seriously in the design of the agricultural agreement. I am very pleased with the emphasis it has been on instruments against North Norway, and that we are conducting an assessment of a study in Arctic agriculture and natural sciences at the University of Tromsø. I would also like to point out the important challenge it is for municipalities to follow up this message. If we are to get into this value creation program, we need to do a lot in the first line service – that these players are active in the first phase. I would also like to point out that the emphasis it is gradually in the Norwegian society of human capital also applies to the agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e934	More and more people living in Norway are questioning Norwegian agricultural policy and are concerned. The first quarter of this year the border trade leakage to Sweden increased by 45 pst. compared to the top year last year, and is now approaching NOK 10 billion. This is to the detriment of Norwegian traders and those operating in the service industry. But this is actually the only way for Kari and Ola Nordmann to protest against Norwegian agricultural policy, to travel across the border and get a nice trip to Sweden – to Little Norway, as they call it. And for good reason, they almost don't find Swedes there, but they find neighbors, relatives and siblings at Gjøvik, who are there and acting. It contributes to significant overproduction and regulatory export, as a negative result for Norway and job losses. We also see that runaway Norwegian farmers, they can probably get some smaller farms in Norway that are not so interesting, but they rent and buy larger agricultural land in Sweden. The rent is six-eight times higher in Norway, they say, than it is in Sweden. And they can produce on a large scale based on their own preferences and wishes, which they have never been able to do in Norway – meat, milk, cereals, forests and berries in the EU country Sweden! And third: Norwegian farmers also travel to Sweden and buy agricultural machinery all the way down to half the price, and even the poultry accommodation! So my question to the representative Karlstrøm is: What concrete leadership is the Christian People's Party with, as part of the majority, in order to take account of this negative development in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e945	It would be helpful for this case if the Progress Party did not use every opportunity to advertise to these border trading companies on the Swedish side. They get an incredible amount of press coverage – I think that's quite negative. There's a dumping market along the Swedish border, I think we should also take it inwards. I want to help lower Norwegian commodity prices to help Norwegian industry compete. That's what the message is ready to do. But I think it's pretty important to continue this social agreement that is actually between Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian population to produce food for their own people. Obviously, if people say from the poll that they no longer want a Norwegian food production, they'll know. But I experience the Norwegian people who are very clear and unambiguous that they want Norwegian food production, and they are actually willing to pay for the Norwegian food even if it costs a little more. In addition, you can wonder why the land prices in Sweden are so low. Of course, it's because no one wants to use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e959	I noticed the representative Karlstrøm's concern about the marketing effect of talking about the border trade in this room. I think it's a correct observation – there are things that indicate that the staging representatives are not aware of what they're into in terms of fees and the resulting border trade. Otherwise, I would like to ask the representative Karlstrøm about the odelslaw. From a party that is otherwise very clear at most, the representative Hedstrøm admits that they think in terms of the law of no part. What a hope that gives! But Christian People's Party – do they think about the law of nobility, or have you already concluded, as one could get the impression of several times from former Minister of Agriculture from the Christian People's Party? Is it so that the Christian People's Party is prepared to sacrifice the oldest, most peculiar and most family-related form of law we have in this country for the benefit of public regulations and concession laws and other restrictions on private property rights? As far as the future agricultural settlement is concerned, the Workers' Party rejected the Evening Post as a source of truth. But we know from the hearings on the agricultural notification about the strong reactions of the peasant team to the Bondevik government, and about the farmers' desire to move towards making the hopelessly unprofitable production a little less hopelessly unprofitable, for the sake of more rational operation and somewhat larger units. And then the question becomes to the representative Karlstrøm: Will the Christian People's Party continue to cooperate with the newly converted Workers' Party in a policy that focuses on unprofitability, inefficiency at the expense of rational operations and more efficient production?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e974	The easiest and most effective price approach is to reduce the food tax – so here I can only challenge the Right to follow up when the matter comes to the house. In the case of the law of nobility, we went in to reduce a sample. We haven't concluded anything more than that. When it comes to betting on larger units, it's amazing how the Right is so concerned about structuring other people's property from this room. In fact, I think we should stick to following the structural changes that occur naturally because of economic and technological developments. Pushing on something more there is actually increasing the cost of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e983	The representative of Karlstrøm was busy bringing down food prices, and she mentioned that this was mentioned in the notification. I have tried to read this message and also the majority's comments very carefully, but I can't see anywhere that there are any guarantees for lower food prices. What is the intention is to reduce the target prices, i.e. the maximum price, but the market price is in many ways much lower than the target prices. How, then, can one say with one’s heart that food prices will go down? We know that the proceeds of this compensation scheme under the tax scheme are 600-700 million. kr, and we know that Agenda 2000, with the reductions coming there, has a proceeds of over one billion dollars. We also know that, especially in beef, prices will be reduced within the EU in the next few years, until 2002, by 20 pst. This must mean that we might have a theoretical decline in food prices in Norway. Furthermore, the products concerned, which are to be reduced and which are to be reduced, have not been outlined, but price differences must clearly – with the means in the notification – mean that price differences between Norway and our neighbouring countries will increase, and in part strongly. That's what's real. That is why I would like an explanation from the representative Karlstrøm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e990	In the setting, there are wordings about VAT, and we'll get back to this in this room. My attitude about VAT is that it's actually one of the most important steps to bring down food prices to the consumer, because that's what we have to focus on. If we don't bring down the prices to the consumer, the farmer in the first paragraph doesn't benefit much if he reduces his food prices, then only increases the profits in the joints up to the consumer. I think it would be a much cleaner debate if Hedstrom next time he goes to Sweden, goes a little further into the country. Because when comparing prices between these countries, the difference is not as large as the price difference between Norway and the border points. I am calling for a little greater cleanliness here, and I also refer to the investigation that was referred to in a question here earlier to Hedstrom.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1000	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1003	The debate we have today should not have taken place. The Minister of Industry said earlier today in the statement she had, that we have subjected many of the necessary changes that we are facing in this country. One of the areas that are mature — not to say over-ripe — for migration is the agricultural sector. Therefore, of course, this message should never have been processed, it should have been withdrawn, it should have been sent back to the Government so that we could have received a new message. It was an overwhelming majority that it should be done, and the current Council of State was the very bearer of that position. In a little quote from the Bonde and the Kleinbruker newspaper of March 15th, it says: ‘My advice will be to draw the message. It will surprise me that the new government will assess so that every word in today's report is correct, says agricultural policy spokesman in the Workers' Party, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen." It's very important when dealing with agricultural policy for maybe the next 8-10 years, that it's very clear what the Government thinks. It is absolutely crucial, in my opinion, for Norwegian agriculture and for the development that we must expect to come and that should come, that it is quite clear what the Government believes. He may be happy today to have every word of what he wrote in the message adopted, but he must be surprised. Not least, he must be surprised by the countless debates he was standing up for throughout the winter, which the League of Bonds arranged in every corner of this country, as far as the peasant organizations and not least Hanssen were of them as measurable views that definitely crossed the message. It is incorrect, as the rapporteur says, in relation to the history of the position in the field of agricultural policy. It's just reading the settings for the last two agricultural settlements, one will see that the Workers' Party is adding lower business transfers, and there's nothing left in this setting. They claimed that what had been included in that settlement was contrary to what was stated in the Eyeågen Communication, and that it was strongly corrected to the previous government that the price pressure on Norwegian food products had to be increased. These crucial elements should, of course, be stated in a communication from the government at the time of its handling. However, I see the political reasons why it's not done and that 600-800 million have been spent. kr in tax booklets for a single profession to buy political peace, I register that. How I'm going to describe this setting, I'm really very difficult to put a few words on. Only the fact that the Workers' Party spokesmen do not take a line on the former Secretary General of the Small User Team is an indication of what has happened. It's a humiliating embrace, where you've tied the Center Party on some important points, and you've created a room for action by stressing that the knitting beam that this whole message is is now applicable to most of the things. And I think the signal we saw in the evening post today is just the first step. I understand that Lilletun in his line took up whether allegiance would be what would affect the relationship in the future, or whether it would be adultery. Speaking of cheating, you have to listen to Lilletun, who came from the block-independent government, as you remember. However, I believe that we should assume that what is in this position will not have a significant impact on Norwegian agricultural policy in the next ten years. I feel very sure that it is through the annual agricultural negotiations that the removal of these details will be done. This Communication will not have any approximate meaning as St. prp. No 8 for 1992-93 had in the 1990s, and I'm glad that. The right, as demonstrated by the suspension, has taken the view that ‘property, freedom, the right to rule and respect for man’s desire to live by himself’ should be fundamental. These are values that have grown in the agricultural community. [[Fire alarm goes]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1021	The stork suspends its negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1040	The stork then continues its negotiations, and Ansgar Gabrielsen continues his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1043	I'll go over to a slightly less flaming face. Right-wing people believe – as I said – that ownership, freedom, right of rule and respect for man's desire to live by his own work are central political values. These values, which have grown to a large extent in the agricultural community, are both essential for long-term resource management and the main basis for viable and profitable agriculture. The individual farmer, and not the authorities, is best placed to decide how operations should be arranged in order to maximise the yield on the farm. The restoration of ownership and the right to rule is therefore a central part of a forward-looking agricultural policy. Right will work towards a viable Norwegian agriculture that provides the consumer with a high-quality product at competitive prices and ensures a sound Norwegian food preparedness. Right will protect the respect of the farmer as a businessman and a cultural carrier, and will pursue an agricultural policy that facilitates a more viable and profitable Norwegian agriculture. I believe it is a major challenge to strengthen the belief in agriculture as an industry worth investing in in the future. This can only be achieved by putting the individual’s ability, opportunities and efforts at the centre of agricultural policy. On the right, the farmer is considered to be self-employed, not as a government employee. It would be an exaggeration to say that the situation today is such that there is a real optimism in the industry. On the other hand, there are many farmers who see opportunities. It is important to develop a policy that takes account of these entrepreneurs, and I would say at the expense of more hobby-oriented activities, which today results in large grants being awarded to those who have it as a relatively similar activity. What I want, is short and well a fairer distribution between those who on the one hand are going to live off it, and those who on the other hand think it's both nice and pleasant to have something to fill the leisure time with. In such a perspective, it is therefore gratifying, as indicated in today’s online edition of the Evening Post, that the Council of State intends to base its view on the flare-up of grant schemes. I have noticed that Norway's commitments as a WTO member and the need to prioritise public core areas mean that it is neither realistic nor desirable to increase agricultural transfers above the state budget. It is therefore necessary to shift agricultural policy in order to ensure better and more creative use of people and production equipment. In order to reward efforts and initiatives, whether large or small, and to facilitate cost reductions, it is essential that the structural profile of the grant schemes be significantly flattened. The primary task of agriculture is to provide consumers with safe, quality and efficient food supplies. In addition, agriculture is entrusted with significant responsibilities for the settlement and conservation of cultural landscapes and biodiversity. I believe that experience shows that it is a misguided policy to place as much emphasis on agriculture as the pillar of rural policy. It is quite clear that with an alternative use of part of the billions transferred to agriculture, better regional policy results could have been achieved than is the case per year. today. Despite these transfers, the number of annual jobs in agriculture is reduced by two and a half thousand per year. years. The right considers that the public instruments must be designed primarily as remuneration for the production of collective goods by agriculture, while the revenue from the current food production must mainly come from the market. Then the public has to pay for the production of public goods, such as cultural landscapes, biodiversity, long-term food preparedness and scattered housing. Government subsidies to agriculture must therefore be directed as directly as possible towards the benefits we want agriculture to produce for society. Therefore, the right considers that the reduction in production-specific subsidies from the agricultural agreement in recent years has been a right development. In order to achieve the closest possible coherence between the objectives and instruments of the funds used, a greater proportion of the grant schemes should become production neutral in the long term. Such a policy will gradually eliminate the need for current detailed management through target prices. The long-term objectives of food security, the maintenance of cultural landscapes and rural settlement can be achieved through five main types of instruments: area support, livestock support, annual farm subsidies, district grants and freight subsidies. Therefore, in the setting we are discussing today, the Right has shown an alternative agricultural policy and how it should be designed. This policy is built around four main pillars: repatriation of real property rights, a clearer link between objectives and instruments of agricultural policy, an appreciation of efforts and initiatives – large and small – and greater competition to promote innovation and diversity. According to the setting we handle today, as demonstrated by the message, it is such that the co-operation has come under pressure again. Many farmers have set up cooperatives. They have, of course, done it because they have seen it as a profitable way of exploiting their own labour force and investment. I see it as a retreat when it is now to put an end to the freedom of establishment that was made in this area, with the reason that now the farmers are beginning to serve for good. I think that's completely unreasonable. In addition, I would like to advise the Council of State that he should ensure that, if changes are made, it must at least not have retroactive effect. When the message was presented, there was one point that pleased the Right especially in what we can call the legal framework. It was that the State’s right of pre-emption would cease. We've been working on that since the concession law came, and now it becomes a reality. But – there is a man. The majority of the sizes have included in the formulations in this setting things that make me worried, and that is when the setting says the following: ‘The abolition of the right of pre-emption therefore, in the view of the majority, requires a strengthening of the possibilities for refusal of the concession, subject to any conditions relating to the concession application.’;» Thus, the State shall be able to enter and use the Earth Fund and its likes to acquire the property. Another point in the legal framework that I had hoped could have had a different outcome in the committee is that of setting prices for agricultural properties. I find it pointless that a sea of both bureaucrats and politicians should be involved because a small forest plot should be sold to the neighbor. We should have settled that. I put forward the proposals that the right-hand side stands alone in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1085	The representative Ansgar Gabrielsen has presented the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1090	In a number of positive comments, the Committee shares this view with the rest of it. I'll mention someone. The Committee considers that an attractive agricultural industry and active food production across the country is necessary for the proper management of key societal tasks. Decentralised agriculture shall be continued with a varied use structure as an alternative to a more industrial-based industry. The combined uses shall be taken into account, which shall be provided with safe development opportunities. But when it comes to the concrete measures, the Right says, among other things. that the income from the current food production is to be derived exclusively from the market. They will remove the division of labour between central and regional areas, and they will provide an analysis that indicates that significantly lower price support is compatible with viable agriculture in large parts of the country, not all. When we then know that the Right in this year's budget cut NOK 1.2 billion, with a full year's impact NOK 2.4 billion, in the transfers, there's every reason to doubt their will and ability to achieve the fine goals they agree with the committee majority. There is no doubt that all the concrete measures I mentioned seem strongly in the opposite direction and, in my view, will undermine the settlement of the districts, in particular the removal of the channelling policy. I can't see it any other way than that the Right is trying to ride two horses at once, and it's a bold and demanding exercise. Isn't the fact that the Right would be very pleased if we had agriculture only in parts of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1101	It was this, as Opseth said instead, by pulling out a tooth or adjusting it on a tooth, or by pulling out--I kept saying-- almost the whole jaw. From the right side, in this setting, we have shown the necessary conversions, necessary adjustments. We're not talking about a 180 degree rotation. As for the fact that in the setting we distance ourselves from the horror picture that is called industrial agriculture, let me say so that I haven't heard of anyone in this country who has emerged and wanted an industrial-based agriculture. It's not the Right's vision, either. But that doesn't mean that we need to have grant schemes that are such that for example. Some parts of the country have NOK 100 per kilogram. year for each winter feed sheep each year as long as this sheep lives, with a value of NOK 30 kg for this meat. We have to be able to do conversions. When we are at the top of the world in agricultural transfers, the world's peak at food prices is relatively high, and in addition, the pessimism of the farmers who are going to be the future, everyone needs to understand that something needs to be done. Speaking of housing in the districts, when we went into the last century, the 19th century, half of the population was employed in agriculture. In 1950 it was 300,000. Now it's 70 000 to 75 000, and this number is reduced by 2,500 per. years. This must mean that it is not agricultural production and farmers who are primarily per capita. today is the support of the settlement in the districts. What I'm saying, what we're telling you, is that an alternative application of some of these billions had given far greater opportunities for nutrition and housing in these districts. But that in some districts agricultural production is crucial, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1112	I agree with the representative Gabrielsen in much of what he said. Yes, many are dissatisfied with Norwegian agricultural policy. Consumers are dissatisfied because they have to pay Europe's highest food prices. Tax payers are dissatisfied because they have to pay the largest transfers, together with Switzerland, according to the OECD report, and there are many dissatisfied farmers because they are unable to maintain the income target. Almost everyone is dissatisfied with Norwegian agricultural policy, perhaps apart from some bureaucrats and politicians who lay the guidelines for the policy with which virtually everyone is dissatisfied. So to the right. The right has made much praiseworthy in agricultural policy, and the representative Gabrielsen has had a real commitment, Document No. 8 proposals to abolish concession limits in order to achieve more efficient and rational agriculture. But it's a little bit limping. Right wants to continue the law on turnover even if you want to equalise private and public actors. This is clearly said by the Competition Authority to dampen competition. Even if you have a customs-based protection, the Right should also be interested in having full free competition internally. But one also wants to continue the agricultural agreement. An alternative would have been to give the money over the state budget and get rid of some of these schemes and all the bureaucrats who run and run it, which means that the Norwegian farmer cannot keep his freedom, but is balded and elected by bureaucrats and politicians. Is there work going on in the Right to see if you want to go a little further to get more internal competition in Norway to bring down food prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1119	Hedstrom spoke of the fact that the Right Agricultural Policy was somewhat limping. I guess when we're going to describe each other's policies and you're disagreeing, you could say that it's limping. At least you don't fully agree. So the question is whether to bet on shaving, or whether to cut even more. I would like to say that for the Right we have in the agricultural negotiations and in the agricultural matters we have had – not least through the treatment of St.prp. No 8 for 1992-1993, where the Right had the Advocate-General and together with the Workers' Party outsourced agricultural policy for the 1990s – all the time kept us in the real world. That there should have been radical changes through both the Council of Turnover and other councils, there is no doubt about it. But I think it's a little unrealistic to suggest things lifted overnight. I rather want to influence. So to the agricultural agreement and all the bureaucrats that are swinging around it. In so far as the whole agricultural system is concerned, there is an endless number of people from Ås who are running and employing each other, whether in departments or in organisations or in municipalities or in the counties. You hit them with these well-known rings everywhere. Let me say this: at least my two and a half years in the Business Committee have not strengthened my belief that the agricultural agreement is an important instrument for bringing about the necessary changes. I feel that the Stortinget has been played to a very large extent beyond the sideline in terms of influencing Norwegian agricultural policy. It'll be the government you'll somehow depend on at any time. When these agreements arrive at the Stortinget, you keep to your nose, sprinkle on some sand, and then you adopt them. I put a big question mark on the whole strange system we have. If the idea is so phenomenal, it's strange that no one else should be able to grasp it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1128	I thought I heard that the Right Representative in the first part of his post took the agricultural organisations to income for his vision. I think that's why the fire alarm went off; the option was that the right nose got long. I think there was a little logical flaw in that source usage. I'm a little surprised at the Right, because I think that in this particular area right should use more traditional reasoning, as I know Right, with value creation, belief in individuals, organization of small businesses, organization of human capital and organization of the life phases of creating businesses. We talk in Norway about our own tradition of creating businesses in primary industries. It's a little special in Norway. The fact that no one on the right speaks more about this narrowing competence and uses his own rhetoric more on agriculture amazes me, and also the fact that the right to those degrees has failed the logic of total accounting, where they regard agriculture as one holding, which they then allow to structure as a state enterprise. I thought you looked at this undergrowth of small businesses in Norway as an opportunity for new industries. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, Just sheep meat is the area where we have little competition, and where there are most opportunities to bet and create more values, and a work that is not done. If we look at travel life as well, actually, the prerequisite for investing in travel life in this country is that we have the landscape care that agriculture represents. So I look at these properties and the private traders, the 70 000–80 000 we're talking about in the country, as a great opportunity. Then I want to ask, how do you think raising the concession limit to 50 dean will facilitate the development of nutrition?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1137	The President will take note of the fact that one should address the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1141	Initially, as the representative Karlstrøm assumed, the fire alarm went, that the Right had taken the organisations to income for his sight: well, I will be careful to take it throughout to income, even though in many areas we have a vision, not least of the property law, which goes far into the organisation that Karlstrøm himself has led. On the other hand, I have met a few thousand farmers during this winter and spring of the meetings we have had, and the most interesting posts and conversations have been during the coffee break, when these farmers stand down in the inn up in Trundellag and chew on their snuff and kind of express what they really mean, but as they don't dare to say in an open meeting where peasant management and others had to be present. The letter pad I have, and the number of telephones you have received after these meetings, shows that at least the right is not on the wrong side of agricultural policy for the type of farmer that I want to introduce. So to this with landscape care and sheep meat. I do not deny the great importance of agriculture by having a landscape that we can both be proud of and want to maintain. The question is all the time about the best way to do it is to channel it through government grants to kilograms and litres. I have, as I said, put a big question mark on it. With regard to the concession limit and why the Right wishes to increase it to 50 deches and does not stop to 15 or 20, it is not justified by increased opportunities for industrial development in particular, but it is the Right’s view of ownership and the right of individual owners to have their own land. Because why in the world shouldn't anyone have more than 30 dean when you can sell Aker RGI over a cup of coffee at Aker Brygge?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1152	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1155	The agricultural notification exposure has been overwhelming and is comparable to the EU discussion. But the message from the meetings has been more unambiguous. Most of the message has been as in the 80 000 postcards of the Committee in which the Farmer's valuation resulted. «Cheapest food also has its price» was the main message. ‘I’d rather have healthy and safe food, live settlements, branch schools, red-painted loaves, newly-painted cultural landscapes, pigs in the poultry and sheep in the middle of the road... than even a little cheaper food,’ people signed. Norwegian food is cheap and far from the top of Europe. We have never worked so little for the food as now, shows a new study from the Agricultural Cooperation in cooperation with the Export Council. For an adult person’s weekly food consumption, Oslo has to work 2 hours and 33 minutes – 10 minutes shorter than last year. In four European capitals, you work shorter for the same food, in eight more cities. Surprisingly, the Swedes have to work 16 minutes longer despite the fact that Swedish food moms offer an advantage equivalent to 16 minutes. The share of food prices in the cost of living in Norway is decreasing and now represents 12.3 pst. versus 40 pst. of 1958. It is the Norwegian food produced that has evolved most favourably. Consumer price indices have increased three times as much as Norwegian food since 1990. Norwegian farmers have contributed greatly to this. Production has increased, annual output has decreased, but economic yields have also decreased. Today, the compensation for an annual farm is 60 pst. by average annual wages in industry – not strange that more and more farmers are calling for safe future signals! Increasing consumer confidence is a fact, and it's great, but it's not enough. I believe that the broad alliance we have had for future agricultural policy provides such a new security to bet on agriculture in different parts of the country, on different productions and on uses with different resource bases. The objective of income has been reinforced by the fact that farmers are not only to be offered but that income development and social conditions are ensured that are in line with other groups in society. This shall apply to all uses where agriculture contributes significantly to employment and income. With this objective, requirements for cheaper food must be met with measures other than one-sided price pressure against the primary level. The combined price and tax approach now secured is one way of reducing the difference with Sweden without reducing the farmer’s net income. VAT reduction on all food is another option required by a large number of hearing bodies. Their reasons are set out in the setting. In my opinion, a decision on reduced food tax must be followed by a strict price control, preferably with a government-led price commission on a model from Sweden. The need for a strict follow-up of all intermediates in the food chain has been illustrated in the last year by strongly reduced wholesale meat prices due to overproduction, without lowering the retail price. The Committee has pointed out that the food industry can be offered cheaper raw materials through increased RAK grants under the WTO Agreement. It has been pointed out once again that some tariffs designed for our disfavor must also be able to change. The future scope of action for a separate agricultural policy is greatly affected by international negotiations. The Committee's visit to Italy and Switzerland gave us examples that many rules are flexible. In Switzerland, subsidies within the WTO are given to a very large cheese production with an environmental justification that would have stopped in us. By 20 pst. ‘overproduction’ of milk and with much greater border trade than in Norway is paid a higher milk price than we do. The number of cheese daisies is 2,000. In Italy, parmesan cheese is made from as much milk as our total production. Within a small area of flat Po-sletta, 600 dairies were driving this traditional production of a fresh-meal diet, where the principles of the hygienic standard were that the good bacteria kill the bad. This principle was EU-approved. It was also the grants that allowed for a higher milk price than ours, despite mini-scale processing of a volume product. The centre party is pleased that a solid import protection offering preference for Norwegian production is to be maintained, that the place of agricultural cooperation is underlined as a central tool for the individual producers who so wish and as a central player for the authorities. At the same time, I am pleased that it is going to be easier to process their own production directly from the farm. I am not in doubt that the problems of adapting the scope of production and products to what consumers will pay a good price will be highlighted more strongly by all actors. I am pleased that the Customs Authority has announced a multi-annual action against illegalities in the meat imports, and that clearer rules for the labelling of the food as regards its origin, content and production will make it easier for conscious consumers to choose. In order to avoid overproduction which is destructive to agricultural incomes, the majority emphasises that public policy should not have any productive effects in those productions where too much is currently being produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1174	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1177	As the representative Lund and the chairman of the Committee were involved, he and the Centre wanted – and it was no surprise – to prefer Norwegian agricultural products to foreign goods through a solid import protection. But he will also prefer Norwegian agricultural products, such as food, rather than, for example, food. marine products, which are in great expansion also in the districts, where many creative people develop a great value-creating process, and which go with good profitability and have a much stronger value-creation than the agricultural sector, seen individually, with a great potential for further development. We got a letter on this during the examination in the committee. It was not accepted by the Navy that the farmers would have special advantages on the tax side when they also produced food and were directly in competition with Norwegian farmers. So my question to the representative Lund is: is it morally and politically right that we should give special tax advantages to agricultural actors, while those who really stand for renewal and opportunities in District Norway should not have the same opportunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1182	The marine products are to a small extent mentioned in the notification and the position we are talking about today, but it is a good example that we have managed by restrictive legislation to maintain the right to resource in traditional fisheries. The resources that we have been given through the legal rules we have are going to be enormously important to us, which the Progress Party has not been particularly concerned about. It is also very important in the farming industry to maintain national legislation that allows us to develop the industries as appropriate for us. When it comes to the responsibility we have to produce food, as part of the global responsibility, I think it's very important. We're producing 50 pst today. of the calorie demand in Norway when we also include the fish we eat. If we were to produce less and leave to the rest of the world society to get food, we who live in the rich part of the world, I think it would be too bad of us. That's part of the Center Party's basis for the policy we're in for, and we've tried to get through this setting. I hope that the result will be that Norwegian food producers remain optimistic, that it will not be such that small and smaller users end, one after the other, as we experienced at the last purchase of milk quotas. It was deplorable to see also users with large crews and modern buildings in which it was just invested, ending because they had no faith that the conditions would be such in the future that there was any benefit in continuing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1191	That Lund concluded, this finding of what he called sad, that the biggest dairy farms had been sold, is just a logical consequence of what his government has done in the last two or three years. But what's really the most interesting thing about this debate is the relationship between the Center Party and the Workers' Party. Siamese twins are usually something you're basically trying to separate, but here you've grown into Siamese twins, and the whole agricultural debate in the future really makes sense that the Workers' Party and the Centre agree on each letter. I will refer to two committee comments that the Workers' Party had together with the Advance Party and the Right last year when we dealt with the agricultural settlement. One is that we note that, for the first time in the 1990s, agricultural transfers increased last year: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right will point out that this is not in line with the direction of development described in St. pp. [[1992-93]] No 8 and in the subsequent setting. In the second comment, the same majority consider that lower business transfers are a future objective and that this should be taken into account in the work on the agricultural notification. My question to Lund is: With regard to the comments and the conversations he has had with the Workers' Party, is it such that the position of the Workers' Party last year is managed in the comments that are now in the setting? And is it then that the central parties have turned around, or is Lund's perception that he has the power to bring with him the Workers' Party's fraction and configuration on a 180o rotation? Because it's not possible to explain that both of these parts are correct, is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1209	The Bondevik government wanted to improve agricultural conditions much more than the previous government has had, and during two agricultural settlements, income opportunities were improved by NOK 25 000. It was as far as we could get it when we both agreed with agriculture and also made sure that there was the opportunity to have a majority in the Stortinget. The overproduction problems have made it impossible to take out the revenue in the last year, and I believe that the industry itself and many actors have to share the responsibility for it. The situation, that recognition, makes the Farmer now, among other things. have been subject to rules to reduce overproductions and control production volume better than before, a scheme which they themselves would not enter last year. It is too expensive for agriculture to keep such overproduction, and I think that is now fully recognized. The consensus between the centre parties and the Workers' Party is a compromise. In such agreement, both parties have to four at their original position, and there is no doubt that it has been done in this case. But the Labour Party has wanted an agreement with the centre parties, they no longer wanted to be with the Right and the Progress Party in the agricultural policy. It was important for us in the center to split the consensus that has been, which created the uncertainty we saw, among other things. in relation to the quota sale of milk. I am not least in doubt that our members, who belong to agriculture, are well pleased with what is now happening. It would be very harsh if we had been standing on the platform today and talked about an agreement between the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party, that it should be continued. I am pleased with what we have done through the work that has happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1218	The representative Morten Lund said Norwegian consumers would like to buy Norwegian. I think Lund is right – if the food is safe. The requirements that will be imposed on it will be increasing in the future. Modern consumers are concerned with both product quality, mode of production, ethical standards, etc. This will be strengthened in the future, and it is in this area that Norway has natural advantages, which we do not exploit well enough. Norway is an ecosink. 160,000 covers of Norwegian soil are organically grown. In Denmark, they have more than 1 000 000 jobs. The question then is: does the Central Party not see that this side of consumer justice, environmental correction and the strategy to save Norwegian agriculture should have had a much greater weight in the position we have to deal with today? Or is it that the Centre Party has lost the fight for a more organic, greener and even more forward-looking, consumer-oriented agricultural policy in agreement with the Labour Party in this matter? In fact, I miss the Green profile of the Centre Party in this area, which is so essential for Norwegian agriculture to have a safe future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1225	I often think SV's posts are an example of the fact that the best can be the enemy of the good. What has emerged from this work in terms of consumer rights towards what consumers require of quality, in terms of the content of the product, and not least in terms of the way in which it is produced, has never been done before. In the case of safe food, we have received comments from an overall committee – even the Right Party and the Advance Party are aware of it – which underlines the skepticism of genetically engineered food, the need for further research and the need to label food in terms of genetic manipulation, food content, origin and additive. Nothing like this has ever been done before. This Communication also provides a good basis for those who want to produce organically grown food for those consumers who want it. And it provides a good basis for demanding more of the sales organisations to show the food so that consumers can get it. The ambition of the Government is that 10 pst. in 10 years, the agricultural area shall be subject to organic cultivation. I think it's ambitious enough, and I don't think it's going to stand on the political majority if it turns out that demand is even bigger. I hope it can be. It is underlined in the Communication that the whole development of agriculture is to move in a more environmentally friendly direction. I think that's going to be consumer demands in the future. The situation today is that consumers have confidence in Norwegian food. In a study performed in VG 73 pst. that they thought Norwegian food was generally healthier than EU food.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1240	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1244	I will first address the proposals that have been distributed. SV wants a new agricultural policy. Getting safe food, clean environment, as many jobs as possible, and decentralised housing again, for grants must become the main strategy. This means a much stronger conversion of Norwegian agricultural policy than the message and setting that is offered. Only the production of safe food can ensure that Norwegian consumers also want to buy the food offered by agriculture in the future. Safe food has been produced in an ecologically sound manner, it is not harmful to health due to contaminants or additives and it takes animal protection into account. Good Norwegian – as it is today – is not good enough. General remarks and intentions are also not good enough. It is the actual conversions of the instruments into policies that will be what matters. Competition for price and volume, if the cheapest food possible on an open world market, can never win Norway. But we can compete in terms of quality, environmental friendliness and animal welfare. Grant schemes and charging policies must be implemented in such a way as to achieve conversion into ecologically sound forms of operation in conventional agriculture. Sustainable agriculture requires that we stimulate the production of food on local renewable resources, with a minimum environmental impact. We can succeed if we do not continue to stimulate more industrialisation. We have advantages: climate, small herds, far between uses, less infectious pressures and greater opportunities to operate organically. Why don't you do all you can to get the most out of these our great advantages, rather than bet on the world championship in a branch we can never win, namely in price and volume? The commitment to the safe food strategy of the Government and the Committee is unfortunately half-hearted, and it will not succeed. SV fears that both conventional and organic farming will lose on such a both – and – strategy that one is currently pursuing. SV has no faith that small-scale full-time farmers, who produce traditional goods and compete for price and volume in an increasingly open trade regime, will succeed. Environmentally and animal-friendly Norwegian agriculture, which guarantees the consumer safe food, can lead to people paying what it costs, both in the form of food prices and in the form of subsidy schemes, and to keep the level of support, the protection mechanisms, uppinned politically. The production of safe food and a strong alliance between consumers and farmers are therefore the only means of ensuring the future of both agriculture and the food industry in Norway. Whole organic farming must be ensured as a guide role and the objective of at least 10 pst. agricultural production must be organic within 10 years, must not be irrigated, as the majority in the committee position has done. Marketing and access to organically produced food must be strengthened. All niches on the market must be put into service. It makes up a large volume, provides many decentralised jobs and a lot of exciting new food. Volume and demand are strongly downgraded. Trends in other countries are much stronger than in Norway, and consumer demand is increasing. It's a little strange that we're so late about this in Norway. On the day the ice-cream is found just outside the border at a reasonable price, and Norwegian ice-cream is only to be recovered if one runs a rebus race between several shops, and it – if one finds it – is twice as expensive as the other milk, then modern consumers will demand the purchase of ice-cream at the fairest price. And that's how it's going to work if you can't build this alliance that can withstand any price difference now. Consumers will buy Norwegian products if they get the quality they demand and get the products when they want them. But they don't want to play detective between the Rema 1000 reels to get an eye on the ecomet. Anyone who wants a product range to increase presents their products at a well-visible, deliciously presented and preferably introduced at a reasonable price. Both the authorities and the agricultural cooperative have neglected themselves by not promoting what can be our main competitive advantage in the future. And now it's urgent. The volume has to be increased a lot to ensure that it is sufficient to allow further processing with a profitable operation. Both producers, turnover and consumers must be given a clear signal to this effect. That's where many of our possibilities lie. There is also greater room within the framework set by the WTO to increase the subsidies on the green conversion of agriculture. Unfortunately, more money is being used every year to go in the wrong direction. It becomes more and less for the small, fewer jobs and use and larger transfers for use that can cope. SV believes that there is a need to limit transfers to each individual use, with limitations in terms of area and annual work. Support beyond, for example: two annual works should be considered for removal. There is a limited amount of money available in transfers, and the level of aid cannot be increased. For this reason, it is important that more support be given to environmental and social measures. The removal of the investment fee and the fertiliser charge, which has been made in Stortinget, have led us in the wrong direction. It was a mistake, because then you can't use the room that the WTO now gives us to take such taxes and give them to environmentally friendly production. It could have contributed well to the conversion that is absolutely necessary. So subsidies and support for industries must not make pollution cheaper. The food is too expensive, says it. This is true in relation to neighbouring countries and border trade. For the food industry, price is very important, but also quality. The demand for safe and organic food will also come strongly to this industry. It is necessary to further develop the idea of a two-tier approach, with one regime for goods for industry and one for more specialised goods directly to consumers or smaller volumes, without lowering environmental and animal health requirements. SV is open to consider halving the food tax, and is a little surprised that the batches that now reject the tax reduction and claim that it does not benefit either the producer or the consumer are otherwise convinced that a lower tax on alcohol, tobacco and petrol will benefit consumers. This should perhaps lead to some finesse pointing finger and fighting more against those who might be suspected of putting such a fee reduction unfairly in their own pocket. Both the state, the food industry, Rimi-Hagen and the farmer have earned. Maybe we'll look at who's become the richest of this trade. And neither the state nor Rimi-Hagen are as far as I can see, on the brink of bankruptcy. The tax deduction is SV against. There is no dangerous way for the industries that put pressure on the Storting to drop taxes and environmental taxes to win. There will be great injustices of it, and it will also weaken the general tax base in a way that we think is a little less appropriate. SV wants a further commitment to combined use. It provides most jobs, it ensures the best for rural agriculture, it provides the best basis for reducing environmental damage, and it provides better animal welfare. The future of the districts lies in having diverse rural areas, with many job opportunities. The combination of occupations, both for individual use and for community communities, makes the rural areas more vulnerable and vulnerable. 30 years alone on the tractor is hardly a future that many young people can imagine. The agricultural profession as a full-time farmer can become too lonely. SV supports the creation of a value creation fund. It's also based on the idea of diversity and having many different legs to stand on. A conversion to full-time use will be highly structuralising. Many uses will be abandoned, and that may be the intention. But then one has lost what one of the comments says is important, namely, to maintain an agriculture throughout the country and live settlements. SV is also in favour of forms of co-operation and supports the reservations that the Committee has accepted. Finally, a little bit about gene food, which has been little in the debate. Consumers have not asked to be served gene food. It is neither healthier nor safer than the food we already have, and the new products do not currently bring any quality improvement or other benefits to consumers. There is also little evidence that genetic engineering is capable of solving the world's food problems. The causes of hunger remain the unfair distribution. Actually, genetic engineering hasn't been around to solve the hunger problems. It may, in the worst case, reinforce the problems. So a little bit about animal welfare. It is important because it is ethically correct and because consumers will demand it. It concerns breeding, production, transport and slaughter. It's more a question of politics than of individual morality. Norway must be at the forefront in this respect. In this area too, unfortunately, we are now falling behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1293	Karin Andersen has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1298	I noticed with interest that the representative Karin Andersen in his post spoke warmly about more organic farming and better quality of food. The request for a larger production of organic food, for which SV is responsible, is agreed by the Workers' Party. The Communication states that the objective is that organic production should be 10 pst. in the future. But SV will obviously go faster, and the question is how realistic it is. My question to SV is therefore: On what basis has SV reached the target of 10 pst. within 10 years? And does SV know if there is enough demand in the market for that type of goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1305	The reason why we want to provide this is that it is necessary for environmental reasons and in order to achieve the conversion of Norwegian agriculture that we believe is necessary in order to meet consumer demands in the future. The demand for a product depends on how you get it presented, what it costs, what it looks like, etc. If you travel around Europe, you can see that the movement for safe food and for organic food is much stronger than in Norway. This will enter quickly here. I have told you several times about my rebuses through the shops here in Oslo, my search for the island, and if I finally find it, it lies inside a hook, is twice as expensive and looks quite illegitimate. And it's clear that that way you don't promote a desire for volume. If we, as politicians, want to promote this niche, perhaps both because we want it for environmental reasons and because we see that this is a forward-looking consumer right where Norway can compete better than others, we have to take completely different steps than today. It is possible to reduce some of the price barriers faced by organic farming today, by introducing support schemes so that not the full price is taken into the market from the first day. Anyone who wants to introduce new goods into a market comes up with offers on them at first. We can also go into some of the arrangements, for example. transport and processing of the goods, and see whether there are subsidies there that can be added to the system, so that not the full price is charged as an additional price in the market. That will be necessary. I want to repeat that this is an environmental issue. It is a political responsibility to speed up this work, and the consumer demand for organic food will increase. If Norwegian agriculture is unable to meet this demand from consumers when it comes, when they have not built this alliance with them from whom they get this food, we will have problems meeting the pressure to take in ever-new organically produced food from abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1316	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1319	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1324	It was a little late, but with the President's goodwill Mr. Mr Lilletun has the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1327	I want to start by thanking you for your goodwill. It's always interesting to the right-wing representative Karin Andersen. It comes very often with reflected positions, and they are carried with great security. It is now that SV does not have a member of the Business Committee and therefore have not been involved in the process that has gone on. What I may be missing a little bit in the recognition of the representative, Andersen, is that here there is actually one clear to establish a new plurality, and that the plurality follows up an agricultural message that I and the centre of course think is good, because it is our government that has brought it forward, a message that for the future is asking for an agricultural policy course at the intersection center/working party. SV is still on the track and wants to establish a policy in the Stortinget that is at the point of intersection – as they do – the Centre/SV/Worker Party. Wouldn't it not be natural from the angle that SV very often has, in fact, to say that there's been a good work here that gives perspective for the future in a slightly different direction than the one that's rooted in the last few years? I take it of course that Andersen's representative just forgot to say something about this at the speed of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1340	I'm glad that the majority has become between the Workers' Party and the Centre and not between, for example, The Working Party and Right and Advance Party or Center and Right and Advance Party – we have experienced such constellations. That's good. But the point is that if you at least put words around here, we think it's too unclear, and that you don't follow up clearly enough when it comes to the emphasis on the ecologicalization of conventional agriculture, so you get even clearer objectives for organic farming. It becomes too unclear. You put a little on both – and. The problem here is that the consumer right, which I think is absolutely essential for the alliance that makes it possible to maintain Norwegian agriculture at a high level, which I think we agree on, can change quickly. The consumer market, the food market, I think, changes very quickly. When the Norwegian consumer follows consumers elsewhere in the world and really starts to ask for organic food, safe food, food that is really safe food, that you can put your hands on the heart and say that this is safe, it can come quickly, and then I think this is going too slow. We have a good starting point in Norway to do this, but I don't think we're as good as we often like to believe that we are. We keep too much on these things. This is where Norway should be in the forefront. We should be ahead of all other European countries in the development of these products, because that's where we can compete. In terms of price and volume, we can't compete. If that's what we're participating in, there'll only be a few Norwegian farmers left, and there's a development that SV doesn't want at all. We want to have an agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1349	Then you have no more requests for word to line up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1352	Norwegian agriculture, like most other countries, depends on an active agricultural policy. Regularly, there is a need to adapt and renew agricultural policies. Developments both nationally and internationally warrant this. It is with joy Left records that today's treatment of the agricultural message shows that the agricultural policy of our country is based on a solid majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. Norwegian agriculture needs most of all stable and secure framework conditions and long-term political signals. Bak St.meld. No 19, In the case of Norwegian agriculture and food production, there are two governments, and the same parties, represented by the Stortinget, have jointly made some minor adjustments and co-written on important policy areas. The cooperation between the Workers' Party and the Centre for Agricultural Policy has emphatically put the Progress Party and the right-hand side's clockwork on centralised and industrialised agriculture on the sideline. At the same time, a robust majority of policies are in place that combine the need for increased consumer rights and market adaptation with continued decentralised agriculture with a varied use structure. The majority assume that an attractive agricultural industry and an active food production across the country are an important contribution to the success of key societal tasks. Although the international framework conditions for agriculture are increasingly being set, it is important to have a space for action enabling an active national agricultural policy to provide a basis for agricultural activity throughout the country, the basis for a competitive food industry, good plant and animal health and safe and high-quality food. Both in the preparation of the notification and in the process that followed, there has been a high level of involvement by individuals, teams and organisations. The first reactions to the message when it was presented were relatively negative, with expressions such as ‘tam’, ‘it was little new’, ‘it was little obligating’, etc. However, as the first reactions took place and people took the time to get involved in the policy in the Communication, it has been shown that the agricultural policy of the Centre Party has emerged as robust and reflected. Yes, in fact, it has evolved so that those who criticized the most initially have become defenders of the steps to which the message gave rise, and have gone so far that there is expressed concern that there should not be a majority in favour of the notification being adopted. This has been a joyous development, with increased support and understanding of the agricultural policies of the centre parties. The EU's agricultural reform, Agenda 2000, with a reduction in prices for several types of goods, must be compensated for by increased budget support for farmers in the EU. It did not mention the Party of Progress. There is reason to believe that this may have an impact on the most competitive food industry in Norway and on border trade. It is therefore important to reduce the difference in prices between Norway and our neighbouring countries. When the target price reduction is implemented as a one-off measure to meet Agenda 2000, compensation in the tax equation through deductions of up to NOK 36 000 per year. use an appropriate instrument. This is not new in the Norwegian tax system. Fishermen, fishermen and seafarers have long had their own special deductions limited up to NOK 70 000. Neither does the said Progress Party. In many other countries, a flexible tax system is adapted to different industries. The left agrees that it is important to reverse the trend of growing border trade. Studies show that for a Norwegian household with an average consumption pattern, the consumption costs of groceries in the summer of 1998 would be reduced by more than 12 pst. if the food was purchased in Sweden as a whole. In Norway, VAT is 23 pst. on all goods. In Sweden, VAT is 12 pst. in food, otherwise 22 pst. The majority have shown in their comments that we have a strange level of food tax. With the exception of Denmark and Norway, all countries in western Europe have abolished or reduced the VAT on food. I am pleased that the majority points to the distribution effects of reduced food tax, and that the Government is going through these issues carefully when assessing food tax in the VAT notification. I stress that in cooperation with the Workers' Party there are no promises or obligations about reduced food tax, but that one should come back to it in the VAT message. In the Left and Centre parties, we are prepared to continue the good dialogue we have with the Labour Party in agricultural policy so far, and we would like to welcome a majority vote with the Labour Party on reduced food tax. In a country with our topography, with our temperature, with fewer growth days compared to other countries, it makes no sense that we should be among them at the highest VAT rates on food in the world, while at the same time wanting to bring down food prices, and our competitive disadvantage is higher prices than our competitors. There is a lack of logic and absolutely inexplicable that the parties on the right-hand side are moving towards reduced food VAT on the grounds that there is doubt that this leads to reduced prices. One must then be allowed to ask the question: why have other countries reduced VAT on food? Is it because they don't want more money into the treasury, believe? No, of course it is because of the fact that a person wants to lighten the tax burden on the necessary items such as food. This international understanding of matmoms is also welcomed in Norwegian right parties. Reduced food tax is the best contribution that politicians can make in order to reduce border trade. Reduced target prices require effort between the food chain joints. When the manufacturer does so, the other elements must also be more efficient, with the aim of bringing the price down. The majority are also satisfied that the Government will continue to monitor where the cost increase takes place in the food chain. In recent years, farmers have reduced their prices in sum by billions without seeing a similar price drop again in the shops. In particular, meat has lower output prices than 15 years ago, measured in fixed crowns. The almost 50,000 employees of Norwegian food processing, largely based on Norwegian agricultural products from 75 000 farmers, depend on Norwegian primary producers. There is a destiny between primary producer and industry. When discussing higher food prices in Norway, one should not forget that we have a high level of wages and charges and high transport costs, especially in the districts. The work of the central government to reduce the costs of agriculture needs to be continued. It was right to remove the investment tax and environmental taxes on fertilizers. It has to do with trust in professionals. No one uses more fertilizer than is necessary with the price that is already in use. This, of course, has to do with producers' incomes. The left is pleased to note that there is a solid majority of people who point out that good agricultural incomes are crucial to ensuring food security and adequate production of high-quality, safe food and the production of community goods for society. Agriculture must, through an active policy, ensure active farmers' income development and social conditions in line with other social groups. It is a well-known case that agriculture is increasingly drawing its income from sources other than agriculture. Therefore, an important signal is given when the majority agree that it is not appropriate to shorten transfers in relation to other income. Good income opportunities and welfare schemes providing security of illness and opportunities for holidays and leisure will be essential for people's desire to invest in agriculture. Further training is also important for farmers. Gender equality must be intensified within the industry. It is an advantage for Norwegian agriculture, for District Norway and therefore for the country in general that the share of female farmers is increasing. In the recruitment context, it is important that everyone is concerned about making it easier for young people who want to buy a farm, and also to facilitate the situation at the time of generation change. Organic agricultural production needs to be increased in line with market opportunities. It's an ambitious goal of 10 pst. the total agricultural area shall be organic over a period of 10 years. If that objective is to be achieved, there must be significant market intervention, but the potential is there. It shows the experience from other countries. The distribution network must also be further developed. In the context of organic farming in particular and agriculture in general, increased research efforts are needed. A unanimous committee believes it is natural to give NORWAY the opportunity to fulfil the role of the research institute and as a national centre of expertise. The value creation programme referred to by the Committee is important for exploiting market opportunities both in primary production and in processing. This can be an exciting process, with great challenges for everyone. The legal aspects relating to the size of the concession limit, odelslaw etc. do not give me time to go into it, but the case rapporteur has presented it in an excellent way, and the left of course joins in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1405	The representative of Kongshaug of the Left expressed satisfaction at the fact that the Right and the Advance Party were placed on the sideline of agricultural policy. No one can ignore that there is a majority that stands for a different policy today, but it can now have something positive with it, then. With one step forward and two going back, due to international conditions, new initiatives will soon be required here in Stortinget, whether the representative of Kongshaug likes it or not. And in the case of food moms, if we had removed the whole food mom, we would, after all, have had a significant borderline leak to Sweden, as low as prices are on some of the baits. There are also tax exemptions on other things. In Sweden, the debate has also been debated and done something about competition. There's a competitive agriculture. What consumers in Sweden are concerned about is that food prices in Sweden are 21 pst. above the EU average. So they have come much further than Norway, yes, they are several light years ahead of Norway – I would say – in their thinking and their debate. I would also like to point out that the Left is opposed to form fields, bureaucracy and detailed regulation, but this is certainly not true for the agricultural sector. There's no comment from the Left that goes into it. We know that Aanesland and Holm at the Agricultural University have presented a study now that shows that housing and price regulation, which the Left agrees with, prevents 22 billion SEK in investments in Norwegian agriculture. The Swedes have liberalised and are in the process of obtaining positive effects from larger investments in agriculture. There are several farmers who own properties, who live on their property, etc. So, by liberalisation, they are in the process of achieving something that we have tried to achieve with strict regulation, but where we have failed. Why has the Left as a liberal party not mentioned it in its comments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1423	The representative Hedstrøm put his trust in international relations as a means of transforming Norwegian agricultural policy. I think it's important, as it says in the message, and as I underlined in my post, that there is room for international work to allow us to have room for action on an active Norwegian agricultural policy. A national agricultural policy is also being pursued internally in other countries. As far as border trade is concerned, on which the representative Hedstrom was once again involved, we are a neighbour of the EU, and it is clear that there will always be baits on the supply side of those outside the EU. However, one should not go far into the EU until prices other than those at the border are found. It is possible that it is only if you were to become a member of the EU that this would go completely away, but I understand that the Progress Party is not prepared to go in for it at this stage. I guess we're doing pretty well the way we have it. As far as VAT is concerned, as the representative was also concerned, I still cannot understand that the Progress Party will go in to reduce VAT on spirits and other alcoholic beverages, while other baits across the border will not be subject to the same consideration. When it comes to simplifying the form field, I ask the representative Hedstrom to read the note in the message. It is clear that there is a need for significant simplification of the subsidy schemes and the system of subsidies under the agricultural agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1434	Kongshaug was in on this with the matmoms. I could well imagine asking him: Has it ever occurred to Kongshaug that it is the agricultural organisations that require a reduction in food tax, and not the consumers in particular? It's not like it's not the opposite of the 6 billion. And further, what VAT rates have the Left planned to increase to compensate for the 6 billion – because I have understood it to be non-nutritional? Secondly, I have also understood it so that the programme of the Left actually talks about business neutrality. It was often strongly underlined by Sponheim when he was the Council of State. It has even been used as an argument to be cautious in relation to, for example: maritime taxation, taxation of the most competitive industry, while, for the most part, local authorities are now willing to set aside the programme of the Left – this with industry neutrality. Kongshaug said in his article something like that the farmers have reduced prices by billions without having seen it on the sales prices. It could be. Then my question to Kongshaug is: what makes Kongshaug think that reducing VAT by SEK 6 billion will benefit consumers, when the willingness to pay, the market, the elasticity of prices are such that it does not benefit consumers when the farmers have reduced the price, as he argued? Secondly, it is probably the sum total of all the instruments of agricultural policy that are interesting, and not the instruments separately. In comparison with other countries, in the name of justice and objectivity, one must also take into account the legislation in force, not least the direct and indirect aid schemes – and not just VAT. If Kongshaug is willing to do the other measures, I think it will be a narrow matter to do what he wants with VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1443	I still think there are some wonderful contributions from those who claim that by reducing the VAT on a product, there is ‘reason to believe’, as stated in the Right’s comments, or reason to doubt that this would lead to a reduction in prices. I ask the question again to the Right: why is it done in other countries? Is it because they want to get less money into the treasury, or is it a way to make the groceries cheaper? And if this is true in other EU countries, which the Right sees as a model in many contexts, why can't the same steps also be taken in Norway to have the same effect? In the case of business neutrality, on which the representative Gabrielsen was involved, it is true that farming is subject to certain framework conditions. And as I said in the post, we have a lot fewer growth days in Norway than we have, for example. in Skåne, Sweden. We have a lower average temperature, we have a completely different topography, and we have to take these things into account if we're going to have a Norwegian agriculture. This is also the case in sport and competition. One does not race in a car race with cars of different engine sizes. This is a political responsibility to organise. I did not say that all this will automatically benefit consumers, but with an effective control system there must be reason to believe that by reducing the rate of food VAT a significant part will benefit consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1452	The representative Kongshaug used parts of his post to talk about organic food production and increased ecologization. I'm glad, because he's actually the only one who's used so much of his post to it. Then I need to ask the representative about a few of the proposals that SV has made on the table today because unfortunately we are not in the business committee. One is proposal No. 8, where it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to impose an obligation on market players receiving public support to carry out regulatory tasks to actively contribute to the market development of organic products’.» It is important because now such a strategy is largely lacking. As an example, I can mention the somewhat incomprehensible strategy that Tine has had to produce island milk, where they have managed to call it something as difficult as Dalsgården, which is not very informative for consumers, while all the other countries in Europe have been able to call it milk for island milk. Then, of course, the consumer understands what this is all about. I have heard them explain this because they fear that the strong marketing of island milk will make the consumer think that normal milk is not good enough. If that's the way to market new and important products, it goes wrong. Therefore, we want those within the regulatory tasks here to be obliged to contribute to such marketing. So to proposal No. 10, which is on the exploitation of land parcels. So it's possible to run organic production on resources that we have in large quantities and that are at least not used in many parts of the country. I am aware that in other parts of the country, there may be a lot of grazing on the edge and above it, while there are large grazing resources that are ready. The main concern is grazing for sheep and goats, and there are products for which there is no overproduction in the Norwegian market. Does the Left think that such a plan could be necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1464	As I said in my post, there is a relatively ambitious objective contained in the Communication, to which the Committee has joined, namely that 10 pst. of the total agricultural area shall be organically managed over a period of 10 years. I agree with Andersen's representative that it is not just that farmers want to change, it is also necessary to have a distribution device that works, and it also needs to increase efforts in marketing. We have examples from other countries that succeed in organic food production, where organic food is highly sought after. What we must not forget in such a debate is that unfortunately we are only 4 million inhabitants, while in countries where there is a much larger market, we have easier to deal with such niche products as organic products are. But even if we are few, we must make an honest effort to increase both the production of and the market for organic products. With regard to the concrete proposals of the Socialist Left, I believe that on proposal No. 8, that there are indications in the agricultural notification as it is available today. As regards proposal No: 10, on a plan to increase the use of pastures for the production of organic meat, there is a good idea in itself. There are no concrete indications of this in the communication, but it is up to each municipality to draw up its agricultural plans and also to make use of the available land resources. However, with the leaders in the agricultural notification, there is no obstacle to better exploitation of land resources. In my view, these two proposals are well taken care of by the communication as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1477	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1480	Agriculture has been and must still be glued to Bygde-Norway. From a northerly point of view, it is important that farmers are built in living rural communities. In addition, new driving forces, such as the planned gas power plant in Forests in Northern Trøndelag, and those that can take on new opportunities in information and knowledge technologies, need to be created. In my native municipality of India, which we like to call the municipality of agriculture and culture, agriculture is the largest industry. In addition, we have the food industry. It has provided a basis and environment for other strong enterprises in the mechanical, construction, servicing and trade sectors. The public sector is an important provider of services with many jobs. In particular, women's jobs are important as an alternative or supplement for women living on farm. Furthermore, a rich public and professional cultural offer has been developed. This description, I think, is not very unique to my municipality of residence, it can also be suitable for many other vital rural communities. Nevertheless, we see that there is deportation from the districts, and in many places it is especially the women who move. In our assurance that no political decision can be made as to where people are going to live, we believe that good and sensible agricultural framework conditions are good rural policies. The Labour Party will maintain a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. This includes, inter alia: important to ensure a reasonable degree of self-sufficiency in food, to preserve and create jobs that can help maintain the main features of the housing pattern, and to develop and manage the cultural landscape. The Communication emphasises the overall contribution of agriculture to society in the short and long term. The emphasis has been on a comprehensive policy that addresses the whole value chain from land to table. Stressing the need for safe food, increased selection, a well-functioning market and lower prices, consumers' interests have also been safeguarded. Similarly, we see the need for change, empowerment and optimism as important also in the agricultural sector. Recruitment to agriculture depends on young people — both girls and boys — finding it attractive to enter the industry. The Labour Party believes that agricultural policy must promote equality in line with the general policy on equality. For women who work on the farm, the requirement for a fairer sharing of farm income has been central. We ask the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals on how income distribution and income rights for farm work can be improved for women, and we believe that the sample to look at the nobility law must also assess the impact of the rules of the nobility law on the situation of women in agriculture. We see it as an advantage to increase the proportion of female farmers. I have to say it with the fisherman from North Norway: the women's people are more important than the fish. Of the total number of women in agriculture, there were 13 in 1993. who had sole or primary responsibility for farm operations. Only 6 pst. were registered with the same amount of work as the man, while 81 pst. were registered with less effort than the man. The distribution of income from the use between spouses will have a major impact on women’s rights in relation to public health. Under the Tax Act, spouses may share the income between themselves. In some cases this does not pay for tax reasons, and thus the income is borne by the man alone. In a fair and equal opportunities perspective, women must receive their share of the income corresponding to the labour input. In the event of a break in life, the woman’s registered income is the basis for most rights. A woman may be in the situation that she has made a large amount of work over a number of years without registered income. On this basis, the Labour Party wishes the Ministry to look at solutions for a fairer distribution of income in agriculture. Agriculture policy is much more important than food production in a narrow sense. For District Norway, it is essential that compromises and cooperation across party-political divisions can bring together a solid majority for a forward-looking policy. The foundations now laid promise good for constructive cooperation between the centre parties and the Labour Party in the agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1510	Today, we are debating agriculture and food production and food security. This is a debate that also concerns the housing pattern and the distribution of food, which is not mentioned in the vote. People are concerned about food and food security. They are concerned not to administer genetically modified products, and they are also concerned that what they receive is not treated with antibiotics to a greater extent than is necessary. We're running an agricultural farm that really shouldn't have been possible, after all, we live very close to the party on the globe. So it's clear that it's not easy to compete with the well-run uses down in Central Europe with large areas. But we have a advantage: we have a food production that we trust. I'm just going to mention the scandal that came to light in the dioxin pollution that came down in Europe, which in turn has led to the regulation for the import of, for example. salmon from Norway has become very difficult. District agriculture is struggling with a number of problems that are designed by someone I would call asphalt cowboys. It goes on different things that I'm going to try to list: it's landscape protection plans, it's nature reserves, and it's culture memory law. And when I mention nature reserves, it's not enough with the reserves or areas there, but temporary outer plan boundaries. That is the problem for those who are going to take their profession out of agriculture and, to a large extent, for those who are going to take their profession out of the sea. I mentioned the Cultural Memory Act. We have predatory plagues, we have increasing populations of gloats, youives, bears, wolves, eagles, otters and seals. And it's here in the house that the premises are laid. The size has decided that we should have viable populations of these predators. But there's nothing in the Berne Convention on viability, it's an invention that's come into this house, on top of what's required in relation to the Berne Convention. And it's clear that the starting point is bad when you have these problems. Then you experience the sale of milk quotas, the closure of modern farms – and people lay down! The problems are solved for an edge use when the peacock has eaten up most of the sheep. Then put one down, and then the problem is solved. This isn't much talk about. I look with concern at the future of the districts. One of the reasons I'm going to spend a little bit of time on is this general distribution of food. Today, there are four chains that decide whether to get food for the shops around the country. It's Rimi, Rema, the Hakon Group and the NKL. Food is distributed, as you know, from wholesale stores. What's happening today? Well, they're also centralized. I'll take a little example from Nordland, in the middle of Helgeland. There they got their goods from Mo in Rana. Suddenly engrossed was moved to Bodø, and now it is to be moved to Trondheim. But don't think it'll stop there – no, it's for Alnabru! We can talk about IT, and we can talk about computers -- that's basically what's being debated in this room. We can't eat computers! We cannot get the food intravenously via IT! We have to have a guarantee that we get food supply. Suddenly, the chains have been bought up by large groups in Europe, and how does the distribution of food become a reality? I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1528	The Progress Party wants Norwegian producers to be able to take advantage of the natural advantages and thereby provide Norwegian and foreign consumers with access to unique Norwegian, pure agricultural products with special qualities at competitive prices. Agriculture has a significant potential in terms of monopolisticisation and unnecessary regulation. The Progress Party believes that an agricultural policy must be introduced which requires the Norwegian farmer to regain his lost freedom by eliminating the need for resource-depleting subsidies. We believe that Norwegian restrictions on operating modes need to be removed, and we need to eliminate the large number of support measures and regulations. Unfortunately, the planned economic system leads to administrative prices, which in turn have stimulated overproduction. In the next round, the result will be a comprehensive tool system to keep or get rid of production. This, in turn, has led to a meat market in Norway of around 12 000 tonnes, which is sometimes dumped on the spot market at ridiculously low prices. Unfortunately, a race has been put in which the domestic market does not enjoy this meat offering. The Progress Party will point out that the WTO process and Agenda 2000 in the EU underline the importance of flexible and cost-effective market solutions. The development offers a gradual increase in competition for just Norwegian agricultural products. This confirms the need for efficient production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. In a competitive, customer-management and power situation, the requirement for efficiency will be evident. In fact, agricultural activities have taken too little advantage of the possibilities to carry out the necessary restructuring and efficiency. A postponement of this process, as the agricultural notification indicates, would be harmful to agriculture. The Progress Party believes that it is a long way to go until the industry has the freedom to organise resource use, to influence property prices and product prices, to develop new products and to find new markets. Instead, we record that farmers' organisations are fighting further for the existing agricultural system, including, among other things, cooperative legislation and arrangements for agricultural agreements. A new agricultural policy is therefore urgently needed, with a radical change in the overall business environment of agriculture and rural areas. The Progress Party is in favour of the Government’s efforts to explore the whole value chain in the food market, and that such an overview, which also mentions price conditions, can provide an important basis for more reasonable food. The party to the progress is of the opinion that a government-appointed sample will have significant credibility and that such an investigation can provide answers to which parts of the value chain are more expensive in Norway than in other countries. Perhaps this investigation could provide a basis for decision-makers in order to increase the possibilities of lower food prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1545	The work on this agricultural message has taken place in a very open process. I doubt that there are examples of messages for Stortinget with so many actors along the way. Government Council The Meeting of thousands of nutritionists throughout the country. He also invited all the advisers and spokesmen and other political decision-makers in municipalities and counties throughout the country to consult. This may be one of the reasons for the enormous commitment we have seen from business organisations, other types of organizations, counties, municipalities and individuals during the processing of the message. Rarely have I seen so many recordings in connection with a down-to-earth treatment as in relation to this agricultural message. The setting means joining an agriculture with a lot of community benefits and a lot of community chores. In addition to the production of food and other goods, it shall provide important common good, such as living buildings, long-term food security and a range of environmental and cultural goods. The long-term perspective of policy is also reflected in the strengthening of soil protection. It has been important for us to strengthen the protection of the best food soil. This has to be monitored by administrators at all levels. But the protection of the basis of production is not enough. A running food production and use of resources is crucial to ensure continuity of both production competence and production apparatus. This is what we want to ensure through an economically and socially viable industry, which must also focus on the long-term responsibility of resource managers. Increased consumer orientation is an entirely needed strategy for Norwegian agriculture in the future. This includes, inter alia: that the whole value chain is seen to a greater extent in the context and systolic context so that consumers can be confident about everything that goes from ground to table. The notification shows very clearly the layer community that exists between the primary production and the food industry in Norway. It is therefore a very central strategy for us to ensure competitive framework conditions for the food industry, which is actually Norway's second largest industry and spread throughout the country. This will provide guidance both for domestic price developments and for further use of targeted tools, RAPID. It is important for us to continue our cooperation functions in the implementation of agricultural policy, where producers still have financial responsibility for overproduction. Active agriculture throughout the country is a fundamental element of our agricultural and rural policy. As a local industry, agriculture has a very important role to play in maintaining the main features of the construction pattern. An active agriculture throughout the country means that we want to continue the geographical division of labour. Recruitment to agriculture is a means of achieving the agricultural policy objectives of a viable and sustainable agriculture throughout the country. Therefore, we want to clearly indicate in the income target formula that the industry must be offered the means of income and social conditions that ensure recruitment to the industry. This is in line with the level of income in the industry. In addition, we will stress that, based on both recruitment considerations and on the objective of a fair distribution of income in society through an active agricultural policy, we will offer operators in the industry opportunities to participate in the income and welfare developments of society in the same way as other groups. In order to realise this, it is crucial to have a knowledge of and to align policies with the space for action on the development of income in industry. From a wide range of points of view, but particularly from the consideration of border trade and the food industry’s competitive conditions when the EU has implemented its Agenda 2000, we are in favour of a reduction in agricultural prices and provide the industry with full compensation for this by means of an income tax deduction. In order to ensure that this grip can be applied as neutrally as possible, a texture profile of the production plugins needs to be flattened. Overall, this is the basis for strengthening the competitiveness of the industry. It ensures the industry's income compensation and provides opportunities to make greater demands for business activity to be geared towards the pursuit of surplus industries. Increased emphasis on skills is important. At the centre of the vision is the fact that multifunctional agriculture will be characterised by the fact that the resources of the use and user family, including the external competence of the business community, are to be used to provide a way of life for the family. After today’s decision to increase, agriculture has confirmed the positions of the majority of population in the past in relation to the forthcoming international negotiations – read the WTO. These positions are crucial for the realization of an agriculture with diverse societal tasks, as the message and the setting set out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1571	Norwegian agriculture does not simply have the task of producing good and safe food. Agriculture is entrusted with a number of other tasks that a majority of the population believes are important. Active agriculture throughout the country is part of the rural policy, with the aim of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern. The agricultural communication we are discussing today suggests that agriculture should continue to play a central role in rural policy. Furthermore, agriculture shall be an important contributor to the conservation and maintenance of the cultural landscape. Other environmental benefits from agriculture are the preservation of cultural memories, biodiversity and good animal and plant health. This is all covered by the hat ‘the multifunctional importance of agriculture’. In many parts of the country, it is difficult to imagine an active travel life and a diverse tourism without the presence of these environmental goods. It is not only beautiful nature in itself the tourists are attracted and excited by, but also the use of nature both now and as it was in previous times. Everyone acknowledges that agriculture is facing major challenges. Both the pressure from border trade, and with this demand for lower food prices, as well as the internationalisation of trade in goods in general put pressure on the Norwegian agricultural industry. The value creation programme in the agricultural message is therefore perhaps one of the most exciting in this respect. For the time being, this program is the most word, but with many thoughts behind it. These are thoughts of increasing value creation in the production of agricultural products, where better use is to be made of market opportunities both in primary production and processing. It is important that both local and central actors contribute to the creation of content and practical action in this appreciation programme. Not least, the food industry must contribute to innovation in this context. A higher degree of product processing in order to generate added value in production may be part of the value added programme. Many agricultural products need to be produced in large quantities and their profitability is important. However, the value added programme must also include more niche production. This is the way many other industries operate; a lot of production is in high-volume standards, but at the same time attempts to meet requests for more tailor-made and niche-shaped productions. As an example and an input into the process of creating a content in the value added programme, I would like to mention here a small production in agricultural terms, namely the production of goatmeat in Norwegian agriculture. It is a fact that fewer and fewer goat farmers and that overall the goat population is threatened in Norway. There are now only 132 producers left in the whole eastern region. In the value added programme, a measure may be to create a network between producers and provide them with an important value added function in a niche of agriculture. Furthermore, it is a fact that a Norwegian hotel imports genuine goat cheese from Switzerland. It is also the case that a single user who has invested in meat from chickens reared for breeding has a good demand for the meat at an acceptable price. In addition, when we know that the goat is the most effective caretaker of the cultural landscape and a cobblestone in the mountain landscape, it is easy to see that goats are better off than any other livestock to achieve the multifunctional objective of agriculture. In a production where one does not tolerate any further decline in the number of producers, active investment through the value added programme could increase both the profitability and diversity of both the goat population and the industry. As in other industrial developments, it is important to see the opportunities, to bet on users with knowledge of the goat population, and to give them leeway to create an efficient network with clear goals of increased value creation. Success in this in the goat population can also in the long term lead to a different effect in areas of the country where predator damage to grazing buffalo is very high. One might imagine that increased bets on goats, with increased profitability and safety of operation, could lead to some thinking of switching from sheep farming to goats. This could result in fewer sheep being eviscerated from grazing in predatory areas and in fewer conflicts between predators and domestic animals. Geita depends on entering a poultry into parts of the day and will not in any way be exposed to predators to the same degree as the sheep. The sheep population in areas of the country where the conflict with predators is absent or small may have an opportunity to strengthen itself. If one succeeds in this exciting value creation programme, it can provide new opportunities for increased profitability in agriculture. This way agriculture can continue to play its role as a producer of food, but also provide important functions for all of us in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1592	It's actually a kind of political saltomortal we're witnessing today from the Labour Party, where we've been able to turn almost 180 degrees in relation to their previous policy, which had a completely different ambition regarding the need for conversion for Norwegian agriculture. But leave it in this context. We'll probably have plenty of opportunity to get back to that question. However, some questions need to be asked to those who today, with open eyes, actually want to contribute to the continuing problems of Norwegian agriculture, continued problems for the farmer, and who still want to choose to stimulate a policy that almost continues to grow overproduction. What is the result of the fact that the political authorities, most recently represented by the Bondevik government, which also helped to mitigate the profitability of the Norwegian farmer, but not least the agricultural organisations were unable to light the warning lamp for years to come? We don't have any industry, not any sector in this country that is more governed and passed through, but nevertheless we are in a situation where pessimism is at its greatest, despite the fact that the costs, subsidies and contributions to Norwegian agriculture have never been greater than they are today. So you choose to take care of cross-cutting interests in an inconvenient way, and you further stimulate the same policy that has put us in a terrible mess with overproduction. It is not taken into account to make an active grip in relation to the concept of overproduction. The vote will take account of the international agreements we have to deal with, only in the light of the fact that border protection is one of the most important contributions to the preservation of Norwegian agriculture as it is today. I think those who have been spectators and registered the recent sale of milk quotas must start to get their eyes up for who it is that has left, and who it is that leaves, Norwegian agriculture today. Many of them represent the most modern uses, they represent the farmer we would have preferred to keep here in the country, but because of low profitability and insight in the future, they choose to quit today. That's in the context that we have to see when we get to the so-called tax haven, which you choose to do today. With 80 pst. Part-time farmers and overcapacity are clear that we simply need to establish that we probably need to achieve a greater balance between supply and demand in this sector. And it certainly does not stimulate any kind of conversion when you contribute to many of these being simply stimulated to continue their production as before. So you allow yourself to ask right questions about why we're not involved in this. Why are we not involved in VAT audits etc.? Now I strongly doubt that there will ever be a majority – at least not in this period – for the VAT treatment. However, I assume that those who refer to Sweden, who refer to Finland, who refer to the EU, also have a clear idea of whether they also want to be referred to in relation to other branches of agricultural policy, which go to subsidies for regulations. It can't be that we're going to cultivate a policy where we're going to go all the way to collecting domestic and foreign regulations from the top shelf, without including the whole thing, which has helped us to be in the situation we're in. I think it's on the verge of being far beyond today's realities when you allow yourself to refer to seafarers and people from the fishing industry. At least you have to be willing to take a little glow on the whole, on what concerns industries that are set to compete without subsidies and that are going to operate on the international arena. It is almost also chosen to ignore the fact that we are in the middle of a WTO debate, which clearly binds us on our hands and feet in terms of subsidies and in terms of our ability to steer towards a greater balance. I just want to point out that tightening up living and working conditions also helps to weaken ownership, while at the same time contributing to increased overproduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1605	One of the objectives of the Agricultural Policy of the Workers Party is to have organic and sustainable agriculture throughout the country, which ensures good quality food free of additives to consumers, as well as important social functions to agriculture. This facilitates the message. Although the primary industry cannot be compared with fisheries, it is an essential basis for housing and value creation in Northern Norway as well. Northern Norwegian agriculture must take advantage of its advantages and compensate for the disadvantages. Even the cold climate can represent advantage in some contexts. Late growth and low disease on plants and animals allow the region to produce particularly tasteful and environmentally friendly quality products intended for market niches that pay higher prices. The opening to the east towards a large and growing market represents another possibility, where North Norway takes advantage because of its proximity. On the basis of climatic conditions, Finnland agriculture needs solutions to be found within the framework and instruments it has put in place for an increased value creation, in order for Finland’s agriculture to continue to be seen as a housing and district policy instrument. The region has large areas and rich production in nature that are currently not optimally used. In this context, the proposal to develop a centre of expertise with Planteforsk Holt in Tromsø as a coordinator to strengthen agriculture, and the assessment of the start of a study in Arctic agriculture and nature use at the University of Tromsø, are good contributions to raising both the status and the professional weight of Arctic research and education. Recruitment of higher agricultural graduates is clearly present in order to maximise the use of natural resources. The expectation that this will be a positive contribution to the strengthening of Northern Norwegian agriculture is high. The study in Arctic agriculture and natural use could be an innovation in content and form of education. The study must provide knowledge of the use and management of natural resources in the northern regions, in the context of natural, social, economic and legal conditions. Agriculture and reindeer management will be important here, but also fresh water and fjord resources, forest and land resources can become important. The conditions and challenges in North Norway will be particularly important in such a study, but the Barents region will also be considered interesting. Food combinations remain important for the development of the Nordic countryside and for the exploitation of resources. It is important here to underline the need for a varied use structure. In many places, combined use is likely to be a prerequisite for housing and landscape and cultural protection. Not least this applies to the Sami areas. The framework conditions for Northern Norwegian agriculture are changing, but North Norway must be ensured for future agricultural production at least equivalent to its own coverage of the main productions. This is also to ensure food security in the north. I am pleased to note that North Norway is going to maintain its relative share of production and processing as today. The industry also needs to become more robust to face adjustments in agricultural policy and new agreements for trade in agricultural products. Market orientation and cost reductions are crucial here to meet increased competition. This requires a development and conversion that also needs to be addressed by Northern Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1624	It is gratifying that it has been possible to break down long-term cooperation between the Labour Party and the Right in agricultural policy. And Øystein Hedstrøm's posts here today don't carry an offer for honorary membership in the Progress Party for today's Minister of Agriculture, as former Minister of Agriculture Gunhild The island was offered in its time. Like previous speakers, I am pleased that both the Right and the Advance Party are also parked in agricultural policy through this vote. What these two parties call a necessary modernisation and a necessary adjustment of agricultural policy is nothing but a desire for a completely different agriculture than what we have today. It stands for me as a mystery how these two parties can join a unanimous comitology that agriculture should: ‘manufacture common goods as viable buildings, a wide range of environmental and cultural goods, and ensure a long-term food supply’.» This, in my view, is incompatible with the policies of these parties. Like other industries, agriculture also needs predictability and stable framework conditions. I therefore assume that Mr. Ansgar Gabrielsen does not get right in his prediction that the message will be irrelevant to the formulation of future policies, but that in the practical, daily agricultural policy too, we see that what the Stortinge has now laid down is really being followed up. It is a matter of political will. In the autumn of 1998, I was assigned to the United Nations General Assembly in New York and met in this connection the head of the Agriculture Committee at the U.S. Congress. He gave there some of the same description of American agriculture as what we have heard several speakers here in the Chamber have given today by Norwegian agriculture: frustrated farmers who complain about lack of income, they have too poor incomes to be able to make reinvestments, they had dissatisfied consumers, they had doubled their consumption in a few years, there was no longer anyone who would drive milk production – it was too labour-intensive and too little profitable. In parts of Europe, we now see exactly the same developments in major structural change, partly in industry-based agriculture. Despite much better climatic conditions than we have here to land, production methods are being used that lead to strong pressures on both animal and natural resources. It would be enough to mention Belgian blue, diseases such as cow disease, salmonella or for that part of genetic manipulation. This is a development that a large majority of Norwegian consumers are very far away from – a development for Norwegian food supply that none of us want. We all want the safest food possible and the safest way to produce food. We have a responsibility to facilitate a development in agriculture that allows for continued eco-friendly small scale production. Speakers from both the Right Party and the Advance Party have become spokesmen to make food cheaper. This despite the fact that we've never worked as little for the food as we do now. But the approach that will, of course, contribute most to reducing prices, i.e. lower food prices, will not contribute to the same two parties. I am pleased that today there is a majority in the European Parliament for formulations that farmers should be guaranteed income development and social conditions in line with other groups in society. I'm glad that it's a majority that decides that we need a strong import protection to be able to take prices in line with the agricultural agreement's assumptions. And I'm glad that there's a majority that decides that the instrument system should be designed to avoid surplus problems. Strong border protection and the design of grant schemes in such a way as not to have a sustained surplus situation are essential for economic development in agriculture and for agriculture to be able to collect contract prices in such a way as to increase profitability and provide a basis for reinvestment and recruitment in industry. It is therefore absolutely necessary that this has been put in place in the setting as it has done. Finally, the centre party is still going to be a proponent that the reasons I have mentioned here will be taken care of in the day-to-day formulation of agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-09.ana.ud1767e1649	The time for the morning meeting is up. The President proposes that the meeting should now be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 18 a.m. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
