ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e27	Three permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on the leave of the representative Trond Helleland in the days from 2 February to 3 February in order to participate in a NATO mission under the direction of the US Embassy to Brussels from the representative Olav Akselsen on sick leave for the period from 2 February until further notice from the representative Svein Ludvigsen on welfare leave for the period from 3 February to 17 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the Busherud County: Hallgrim BergFor the Hordaland County: Gard FolkvordFor the Troms County: Elisabeth Aspaker3. Elisabeth Aspaker is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Svein Ludvigsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e76	Gard Folkvord is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e81	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and will consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e86	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e91	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected President of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e112	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Council of State Gudmund Restad Council of State Guro Fields Council of State Laila Davaøy The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. - Thank you. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ranveig Frøiland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e131	I would like to ask a question to Minister of Finance Restad. When managing the credit notification, a majority said that the state must now pool its ownership interests into a unit, so that the national ownership can be secured. This unit needs to be given conditions for further development in Norway and the Nordic countries. The majority also said that a possible sale of axes in the Credit Bank cannot be completed until one has seen how the Norwegian solution is. The majority also said very clearly that the government had to give priority to this work. Two months have passed since the decision was taken. It's too long – it's too slow. The Bank Investment Fund has sent out a press release stating that the fund does not have plans to sell axes in the Credit Fund, nor is it relevant to accept the offer from MeritaNordbanken. This may well indicate that the Bank Investment Fund is approaching a conclusion on this work. And my question relates to progress: Is the Minister of Finance aware of the performance of the assessments expressed in the press and from the Bank Investment Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e140	Ranveig Frøiland points out that in the suspension of the credit notification it was assumed that the Government gave priority to the investigation that the Bank Investment Fund was supposed to undertake in order to arrive at the best possible solution to the financial market structure. The government has given this priority, and already the day after or maybe two days after the debate was concluded here in Stortinget, the ministry sent a letter to the Bank Investment Fund with an investigative mission. There were no leads other than those in the suspension, which were otherwise referred to in the letter to the Bank Investment Fund. In line with what was going on in Stortinget, no specific deadline was given for the investigation to be completed. However, I have assumed – and have also stated publicly – that no undue time is spent on the investigation, because it is necessary to clarify the structure of the Norwegian financial market as soon as possible. On the other hand, here's the big value that's at stake both for the state and for the private, so it's necessary to get a thorough investigation and assessment. I've been somewhat briefed on progress. Of course, it is not that we are in daily contact with and are updated on what is going on in the Bank Investment Fund, but a meeting was held in the Ministry of Finance last week, on 27 January, where we were given an update of the progress of the case. I can't go into the details, but my impression is that the matter is in good hands. Effective work has been done so far, and further progress is being made with a view to providing an assessment and recommendation to the Government within a reasonable time, without saying anything very precise about exactly when this assessment could be placed on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e149	I think it's a little passive when you assume that they don't use unnecessary time, and that it's in good order. Now the Storting must be told that this is where it has to go quite quickly. And we don't have to spend so much time on this. A lot of the work I think is done in the different institutions. Of course, no one has anything against the Bank Investment Fund doing a good job, but it must not take so long for a person to ask questions about what the state really wants, and about one's training things – for here there is a stock market that has to work and an exchange that has to work, so here a no longer should be used. My supplementary question is on the press release sent by the Bank Investment Fund: Does the Minister of Finance think that it is lucky that the fund is speaking about a single fine while this distribution takes place? To put it mildly, it creates something uncertain about what's going on when you're doing a deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e156	Let me repeat – so there is no doubt about it – that I agree that it is unfortunate if unnecessary time is spent clarifying the structure of the Norwegian financial market, and therefore I also assume that there is no unnecessary time spent. On the other hand, when there are so many values of gambling, you shouldn't be hasty to make wrong decisions. There have been criticisms that there has been too little preparatory work in many other cases over the years, so we should not risk experiencing that in this case. But I assume, and have no reason to doubt, that the Bank Investment Fund will ensure that this case gets the progress it needs. With regard to the question of whether it was reasonable that a press release was sent that the Bank Investment Fund would not accept MeritaNordbank's bid, I assume that this was due to the fact that the bid had been extended sometimes, and that it would then be informed that the bid would not be accepted by the deadline expired on 31 January. In addition, it is also in line with the large number of people who have said in the cancellation of the credit notification that it is not relevant to sell shares in the credit fund now that the investigation is ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e163	There will be follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e166	I would like to ask the Council of State to elaborate a little more on these statements from the Bank Investment Fund, because in my opinion, there were doubts about future structural changes for the Norwegian banking industry. In fact, it can almost be perceived as excluding anything other than a pooling of DnB and the credit fund. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to assure the Government that this is not the case, that it is in fact the case that several different options have been investigated to make the decision-making base the best possible. I also think it would be right to ask for a somewhat more precise deadline for when the Minister of Finance believes that Stortinget can get a case on this – whether he thinks we can handle this before the summer, or whether we are approaching the harvest before we can get a clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e173	To take the last one first: I did not have personal conversations, it was my office that had discussions with the director and the director of the Bank Investment Fund, but according to the feedback I have received, I have no reason to doubt that the matter is dealt with as quickly as possible. I have no fear that it will take so long that the matter can not be settled before the summer, but more precisely how early in the spring session you can get this, I can probably not say from the feedback I have received. So I don't think there's any reason to be so skeptical about what's been sent out of the Bank Investment Fund. I assume that they have done what we have at least assumed for our part, that they are investigating different possible solutions and not concentrating on just one possible solution. It is true that the majority of the population also assumed that different possibilities should be explored, both in terms of buying-in, mergers, etc. But then it was explicitly said, probably because the credit notification excluded the merging of the two banks, DnB and the credit fund, that it was not to be excluded in the investigation phase either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e181	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e184	I will advise the Council of State that the majority of the population unfortunately gave the Government a mission without a concrete mandate and absolutely without a deadline. It was a choice the Workers' Party made. Other possibilities had been present, but the Workers' Party therefore chose to follow a large number that sent it to the Government without a deadline, and did not clarify it in the Stortinget. That's where the Council of State is right. The council says it's a virtue of necessity to spend time. I would like to ask the Council of State to point out the development of the stock exchange that has been for the state's shares while you've spent time. There is nothing in the development of state ownership in banks that suggests that this time use has increased the values of the country. Secondly, I would like to ask how the Council of State in the solution to be proposed will take account of the private shareholders, who in fact in one of the banks are in the majority and in the other bank are in a veto-setting minority. It is important for private shareholders that the State also acts in a manner that reasonably preserves their values. And finally...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e193	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e196	Then I bow to the President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e201	When I have pointed out that there is a need for time – for the third time – it is because there are quite large values at stake, not only for the state, but also for the private owners. I think it will also be in the interests of the private sector that this is not going to take place in a very hasty manner. I do not want to point out or refer to what has happened on the stock exchange during this investigation period. Things can happen on the stock exchange, of course also around the deadline if you were to set an exact deadline. There'll be speculation, so I don't think there's any reason to go into it. We perceive that our mission is to provide a solution that is best not only for the state but also for the Norwegian community, including for the private shareholders. I don't think this is conflicting interests between the state and the private owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e210	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e213	I will allow myself to expand my perspective a little on my question to the Minister of Finance. There is now an impression that the Norwegian stock market and the Norwegian stock market, where the State is a major owner, are a politically driven market – much more than in any other country. A few days ago, a leading English newspaper said about the Norwegian market that it had a nationalist business agenda – i.e. a nationalist business agenda. And it has also been pointed out from several other teams that political interference in Norway is strong. My question to the Minister of Finance is: Will the Minister of Finance contribute to the process of dealing with concession cases in financial institutions, which in Norway is a political process, becoming a process with more stringent deadlines and less influenced by party policies and policies than has so far been the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e222	At the time I have been sitting in the Treasury, I believe we have not spent undue time on the concessions we have had to deal with. We've had some for treatment, and some of them we've actually been praised for having been treated exemplaryally quickly, others have necessarily taken some more time. But it's not my idea that you spend unnecessary time. What Per-Kristian Foss now claims, that there are too many political aspects within these treatments, I have a little bit of difficulty in understanding. What we do for our part when dealing with such concession requests is primarily to ensure that soundness and competition are safeguarded. I believe that this has been done in the matters we have been dealing with, at least in my time in the Finance Minister's chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e229	I understand that the Minister of Finance has a hard time getting it. But then I might refer you to a lecture by the director of Norsk Hydro, who, in an exemplary way last autumn, pointed out exactly the same thing as I am now saying: the reports from all the investor environments that Hydro is strong inside Europe and in Norway, point to the need for a political extra premium in order to operate in the Norwegian stock market. It is more politically stressed than any other market. I think the Hydrochief, in a longer time and clearer, can explain this. So my question to the Minister of Finance: Will the Minister of Finance consider doing as in Sweden, to have a time limit for the handling of concession cases in financial institutions? It also takes into account competition and soundness and does so in an orderly manner, but the deadline is therefore set. You don't have that in Norway. For example, the treatment of BNbank/DnB took nine months before clarification came without justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e236	I just have to take it as a point of view, what Per-Kristian Foss now refers to as an opinion in the so-called market. Of course, I will consider whether there is a need to set deadlines. There must be others who get the deadlines. We also have someone who is investigating matters before us, the Credit Authority first and foremost. And of course, we can assess whether there is a need to set deadlines. I have not felt in these matters we have been dealing with, that the Credit Authority has spent undue time. They should also contact others, including The Bank of Norway. I feel that it is done at the pace that normally should be required. But if we get the impression that it does not happen as quickly as desired, we can assess whether deadlines for treatment should be set.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e243	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e247	I would like to ask the Minister for Employment and Administrative Affairs Davøy the following questions: In the VG on 1 February 2000, we can read that Managing Director Halvor Stormoen in Statsbyggen states: ‘No one had full control’ – that is, no one had full control over how much money was spent, time perspective, command and reporting lines, etc. These were and are projects such as: construction of the new Rikshospitale and renovation of the Castle. This reveals major organisational weaknesses in the country’s builder and property manager, by not having the overall overview. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sound way of dealing with and using taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e256	I'm very happy to say that the reorganization of state buildings has actually been adopted in this room as well. The problem that Director Stormoen brings up as one of the biggest problems he and we have seen with regard to the organisation of major projects in Statsbyggen is that several departments were responsible for different projects at the same time. This meant that those who ordered the construction works – to put it that way – had to deal with different departments in State Building. It's now organized in a completely different way, from 1 January this year. That means you have an organization where there is one to deal with for those who are sponsors. So it's organized in a whole new way, and I'm very happy to be able to say thank you to the Storting because it was part of this reorganization.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e261	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Can we get a guarantee from the Council of State that such conditions will not occur in the future, even with a reorganization of state buildings that will apply from 1 January this year? I am thinking in particular about the construction of the new opera, which is estimated at several billion dollars. Here some percentages of deviations will be many millions, which we can use to benefit other projects for the benefit of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e268	With regard to the project organisation and the governance structure of the new opera, the problems we have faced with the organisation and management of the Rikshospitalet have just been taken into account. We have added up to a completely different design and management model, and we have done so because we want to have stronger control with the whole drive. It's my impression that this will make it much better, and we'll have much bigger control with big construction projects in the future. In addition, we have also established control systems for large-scale construction projects, which are also control systems that are superior to all departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e273	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e276	I'll have to ask a follow-up question to Davøy. There have been more projects than the Rikshospital and what has been mentioned here, which have actually, by some at least, been characterised as purely scandalous projects. My question to the Council of State is this: Has anyone ever – as the Council of State sees it – been held responsible for the exceedances and scandals we have seen in connection with State Building? And also: Will the Council of State take an initiative in getting a system so that, when such exceedances and scandalous projects are given within the State Building System, in the future, someone will be held responsible for the projects they present?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e283	I want to point out first that the vast majority of construction projects in Stadsbyggen are going well, you stay within the framework that you have. Then there have been some projects that unfortunately have not been handled well enough. And in terms of responsibility for these: in particular, I want to point to the Rikshospitalet, which is a complex project. It has gone from 1992 to today. There are many actors here. It's incredibly important that we figure out what happened so that we can do this better in the future. Therefore, on my own initiative, I have decided – and got Stortingen’s decision – that we should start a really comprehensive evaluation of the entire Rikshospitale. There will also be responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e288	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e291	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. The danger of global warming is one of the most serious environmental problems we face. Norway contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, including: by importing more and more electricity from our neighbouring country. In years of normal or average rainfall, we import large amounts of power, only in unusual wet years are we self-sufficient or export. At the same time, State pollution control has now provided material showing that they believe that taking gas power into use in Norway will significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and Norway's watercourse and energy plants have said in the Natural Power concession that we will be able to halve CO2 emissions and have a significant reduction in nitrogen and sulphur emissions. Does the Minister for the Environment agree with our two leading trade unions, NVE and SFT, that gas power in Norway will lead to significantly lower emissions of CO2 in the Nordic region as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e300	Let me first say that there are important questions we are discussing here. The danger of global warming is obvious, and we have experienced dramatic weather impacts not least in the last year that we cannot exclude also from man-made greenhouse gas emissions. Regarding the question from Jens Stoltenberg about whether gas power plants in Norway will cause global emissions to decline, let me first say that the SFT says this will happen in the short term, but not in the longer term. In addition, the NVE’s assessment is based on the assumption that the demand for power is given and will not increase if more power is produced. Unfortunately, the experience of the last few years is not so. Experience is that the more access it becomes to cheaper energy, the more energy consumption increases. My assessment is that without an international quota system that makes all countries have an obligation on how much they can emit, there is no guarantee that gas emissions in Norway will replace coal emissions in other countries. We have a significant risk that it will come in addition. In addition, it is worth mentioning that part of the calculations referred to by Stoltenberg is based on the fact that all imports of electricity from Denmark are coal-fired. It's not. Per. Today is up to half of the other things, for example: renewable energy, and we also know that Denmark plans to increase the share of renewable clean energy in its power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e311	I thank you for the answer, but I do not fully understand that the Council responded to what I asked for. NVE and SFT have provided full evidence that gas power in Norway will lead to significantly lower CO2 emissions. And it's not true that those calculations are based on the fact that all imports are coal power, it's based on the mix that's in the Nordic energy market, and soon it's also connected to Germany. Both calculations show dramatic reductions in CO2 emissions. The question is: does the Council agree with SFT and NVE, or does she have other professional calculations showing an increase in total emissions in the Nordic region?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e319	As I said in my first answer, NVE's calculations build among others. that energy use is given and that it does not increase by producing more power. And I think the experience we have since these calculations were made shows that it's not true. I also believe that a prerequisite for gas power in Norway to lead to less CO2 emissions, for example. in Denmark, we have an international quota system that ensures that gas power is replaced by coal power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e324	There will be follow-up questions – Aud Blattmann.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e327	According to a press release from the Press Office of the Left, State Secretary Per Tore Woie states that he will allow the production of gas power in Norway. He believes that it is completely uncertain how long it will take before CO2-free gas power plants can be built. And therefore he wants an early start to build gas power plants to reduce the imports of nuclear power and coal power. Per Tore Woie, as well as is responsible for the energy policy of the Prime Minister, believes that it is politically immoral to rely on coal power and nuclear power produced abroad while at the same time declaring himself as opposed to such power generation. Is it the case that the Council of State also disagrees with its own colleague from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e332	It should come as no surprise to this assembly that not only the Council of State disagrees with Per Tore Woie on this issue, but also the whole Party of the Left and the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e337	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e340	One of the myths of the State Council and the whole of the Left – almost – is based on in its resistance to Norway’s use of gas power for electricity generation, is that there is a new technology right around the corner that can give us CO2-free gas power plants. This is disputed by our leading technical professional body, SINTEF. They point out that the gas power plants that can now be expanded are technically the best available and are high-tech products in any context. They point to the use of other technologies, it requires a price rental that is close to twice the current one, and they point to the fact that the time perspective for such an alternative technology – so-called CO2-free gas power plants – is approximately. 10 years. This is sought by Norsk Hydro, who has investigated this commercially and technologically. It's also wanted by Aker Maritime, who's done the same thing. What makes the Council of State have a completely different opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e345	Let me first say that this question is not whether we should be able to use gas power plants for energy production in Norway, but whether Norway should be the last country to build highly polluting gas power plants or the first country to build gas power plants with clean and modern technology. The calculations for when the technology of more modern environmentally friendly gas power plants can be available vary greatly. Of the estimates I've seen, it varies from three to 15 years. For me, it's a cross of thought that natural force has given itself a pause of thought for a few years before they're willing to make an investment decision, based on three factors: one is that they don't have certainty about what the international allowance price is, the other is that the electricity price in Norway is too low, and the third is SFT's requirement for CO2 and NOx. Once they've given themselves that pause of thought, I think the government's attitude makes sense when we say that we'll be able to re-evaluate the questions, provided they contribute to the development of more modern technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e352	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e355	I have a question for the Council of State Davøy, which concerns what we are all concerned about: How can we create a better and safer care provision for the elderly and for disabled people in the municipalities? I was so happy when I heard Laila Davøy's statement last year, because it actually appears that the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are in complete agreement that the caregivers, the elderly, must have a greater influence on the provision of care. We also agree that competitive outsourcing and offers from private care providers are positive. For the Council of State of Davøy, in fact, said: ‘This competition will give a positive incentive to public service providers of the same services and also make it easier for public service providers to define price and quality of service’. – In terms of quality, how we get better care is the most important thing when we have to put out competition. That's why I was all the more surprised when I looked through this care message that the government presented last Friday, because that's where the Social Minister from the Central Party says the exact opposite: you shouldn't have competition. What is the Government's vision? Is it Bavøy or is it Kleppa that decides?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e367	Now I wish I had had half an hour. This with competitive outsourcing and exposure to competition is a very large field. And unfortunately, it's also the way that many different – let's say – stakeholders here add different content to the different concepts. What is a reality, however, is that in my department we have set up a sample that looks at what we have called exposure to competition. It goes on all aspects related to the outsourcing of e.g.: the operation of institutions, but it can also go on ‘bench marking’ — what we call comparative studies between different institutions in the public sector. I think it's important that we also look at and investigate and take a position on a part of what we call competitive exposure, which is not a privatisation. I can promise that when this sample comes up with its position, we will have a real debate on this, also in the government, to give advice on how to proceed, also in the municipalities. Here there is a great demand and demand on the part of municipalities for how they should deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e374	It's fine to have a debate in the government, but I thought they had a debate before they put forward both management policy statements and big shots, and so there's a total gap here. Davøy has given a positive view that exposure to competition, call it non-privatisation, I fully agree, because of course the public still has to pay, is a good thing for the elderly, because then one can concentrate on qualitatively good offers. The future must be that the older person himself is allowed to choose between the providers that the municipalities have brought forward. It must be that I can decide for myself who I want into my home, not that it should be a municipal task to decide who I should have in if I need help. But Kleppa says the exact opposite. She says that municipal operations are the easiest to plan, and it creates stability and calm for the recipients and the added ones. I'm afraid it's the added ones who get the most rest if the municipalities are to have exclusive rights here, while the recipient just doesn't get stability. It's a big tourover for those who come into their homes. What does the Government really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e382	I also want to refer to my administrative policy statement, which I made last April, where I also said that in the health and care sector, it is difficult to know how far to go in terms of competitive outsourcing, etc. – it is actually the most difficult area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e387	There will be follow-up questions – Jan Johnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e390	I have the following additional questions for the Council of State: we have competition in most of what our society is doing, but within one sector, it is therefore terribly dangerous to compete with and with private outsourcing. What's so terribly dangerous about competition and privatisation in health care, when we've seen that there's pretty much every industry in this country? What is it that makes the Council of State so fearful that we will have a normal situation even within the health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e395	There's one thing that makes it a little bit more difficult here than maybe in other areas, for example. the technical sector, and it is based on some studies from other countries, e.g. Sweden and England, where both privatisation and extensive outsourcing in the health sector have been used, and where it is said that the quality of the soft sectors is particularly difficult to measure, it has been the most problematic. It is also precisely in terms of quality that some unfortunate examples have been seen in relation to privatisation. This is the problem. So we have to spend a lot of time defining. If we are to go to a further level of public sector exposure to competition, including in the health and care sector, we must be absolutely sure that we know what we are doing, that we are able to define quality, so that users get the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e400	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e403	I also have a question to the Davay State Council. On several occasions the government has come out crooked in relation to the trade movement. As far as the budget is concerned, in my view, the issue of important changes to the contractual pension scheme, the AFP scheme, was brought to the fore when it came to the waiting wage system. There are arrangements resulting from an agreement between the social partners and the Government/government. In the AFP scheme, the government overrun one of the parties, creating a lot of strong reactions. My question is, What is the Government's strategy regarding the relationship with the trade union movement? If you want to seek cooperation, or if you want to continue to overrun, you can use the Right Party and the Advance Party, for example. in the AFP scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e412	With regard to the AFP scheme, the Stortinget made some minor changes that were necessary just before Christmas. In fact, everyone agreed to be done, including the trade union movement. With regard to the government in the government budget for this year, some changes that would be brought back at a later stage did not tell the government in the government budget how to do this, in what order or, where appropriate, with which to cooperate, related to the trade union movement. I just want to say, yes, we want to cooperate with the trade union movement in further discussion about a contractual pension. We also want further cooperation with the trade union movement – I have already received feedback in connection with the fact that I have been to a number of conferences, among others. in the state sector of LO – in terms of discussing senior policy, i.e. how we can get employees to work longer and perhaps not feel that they are being pushed out of the labour market, or are wanted out of the labour market too early. So the answer is, yes, we want to cooperate with the trade union movement and hope we get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e419	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not so sure if I'm 100 pst. calmed down. I have to remind you that the proposals for changes to the AFP system produced strong reactions, so strong reactions that if I were to quote the LO leader, I had to use unparliamentary expressions to describe them. I also find reason to recall the responsible line that the trade union movement took when we corrected the economy in the country. I am convinced that in the future we will also need a trade union movement that takes responsibility and shows moderation when necessary. But then there has to be a trust between the authorities and the trade union movement, and at least we have to respect agreements that have been concluded and that the authorities have accepted, and not come back with changes where one of the parties is simply overrun. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e426	Yes, I agree that it is very important to have a good relationship with the trade union movement. It is also of great importance in terms of income policy cooperation and the hopefully moderate wage settlements we will also have to have in the future. I understand that the trade union movement had strong reactions. Similarly, I would like to point out that some of what was in the government budget was also the same or a follow-up to what the Jagland government presented in 1997. But once again, I want to make it clear that we want to cooperate with the trade union movement. Exactly as far as the AFP and the samples we've had are concerned, among other things. The Olsen Committee has been somewhat difficult both to get hearing opinions and to be in dialogue, as the trade union movement withdrew from that cooperation, and LO did not want to give a hearing opinion afterwards either. But we're in a good dialogue with LO, and I also hope that all the main organisations will join in and discuss what we're going to do in the future. At the same time, it's necessary to do something to get people to work more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e433	There will be follow-up questions – Grethe G. Fossum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e436	Even with the background of the trade movement, it is not always easy to tread properly. But one would think that when a government council has been as central to the trade movement as the state council has done here, she would have respect for principles. One of the principles that the trade union movement and the employers, I hope, hold a little sacred, is that what you agree on in a collective settlement, you keep that until you make other decisions in relation to it. This has been breached by the Council of State on the first occasion. It concerns the AFP scheme and the fact that LO withdrew from the Olsen Committee. It doesn't hold to say in party speeches that you want to have good cooperation when you don't do anything about it in practice. My question is: Why did the Government and the Government not have the patience to wait for the agreement with the employer to take up the AFP scheme, so that it became as the parties would have it? Why didn't you wait?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e444	I guess I've actually answered this question from the previous speaker. Once upon a time, you withdrew from the Olsen Committee. This was done by all the employee organisations, including: because they disagreed with the mandate. There has been some difficulty in good dialogue about the AFP scheme. Therefore, the Government chose to give some signals in the State budget. But, as I said, we have not said how to deal with this further, and we want a dialogue with the trade union movement on these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e453	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e456	I have a question for the Minister of Finance. The vast majority of industries in Norway have on several occasions pointed out that strange framework conditions weaken their competitiveness, most recently made visible by the actions of the truck industry. Can the Minister of Finance share with Stortinget what he has now promised this industry of action – of positive action – that will improve the competitiveness of the transport of goods in Norway? And further, can the Minister of Finance also explain a little how the Government sees that it is possible to stimulate greater use of low-sulphur diesel? At my discretion, there are in particular two instruments. One is availability, and the other is cost. As we know per. today, none of the assumptions are in place to switch to more low-sulphur diesel. I would like the Minister of Finance to explain these issues, because they are very central.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e467	There is no denying that some attention has been paid to the diesel tax in the new year. Here is the situation that there has been a broad political consensus that fuel taxes should cover society's costs of road traffic. It may be that the Progress Party has not agreed, but it has at least been a starting point for a large majority. It is also the case that the Green Tax Commission in its time pointed out that there were significant differences in the tax on petrol and diesel, and said that there is really no reason to have this discrimination, for society's costs are no less in the use of diesel than they are in the use of petrol. There has been a sort of guidance for the Government when we have evaluated the tax increases we have proposed. As is well known, only a price adjustment was proposed for the petrol tax last autumn, but a certain increase in diesel taxes – 21 øre in the ordinary diesel tax, and then a new levy was introduced, which we might call a sulphur tax, of 25 øre, as an incentive to get low-sulphur diesel, so-called environmental diesel, on the Norwegian market as soon as possible, and so that we did not have to wait until this was imposed by EU legislation in 2005. There is a good deal of disagreement as to whether the current charges are correct, or whether they are too high or too low, in relation to the assumption that they are intended to cover the costs of society. It will now, with all of that, first of all, be available a report from TØI that gives some answer to it. I have had the opportunity to look at the numbers, and the main conclusion is that it varies between different car types and depends on where the cars are used. But the sum of it is at least that, overall, the charges are still not such as to cover the total cost to society of road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e478	First of all, this is not what was said about the car charges that are being levied today. They far exceed the social costs of road traffic. So I'll dispute that. It is – in the name of district policy – that I thought the centre party was very concerned about, a fact that one has a long distance from the markets, we have bad roads and traffic, not least. When, for example, we're in the middle of something like this. know that one of Norway's most important industries, fish, is transported by trailer throughout the Norwegian country, should it not be in the government's interest to optimise conditions so as not to allow transport costs here to be so high that foreign carriers can enter and take over parts of this market? It is not reasonable that we should at all times maintain very strange and sky-high charges. I don't know what reasons you use from time to time, but at least it's not to stimulate growth in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e485	Siv Jensen now states with a broad pen that the charges are too high in relation to covering society's costs. I think that is a bold claim before she has at least had the opportunity to see the report that comes from TØI in a few days. It doesn't have to take a long time to see that report, so I would recommend that it be read first, before you have any really good opinions on that question. Then it is right that we can get into a conflict here between the concerns of districts and of the transport industry and to the extent that the rest of the business world and the need to have a level of charges that covers social costs. These are themes that we're now going to deal with. As you know, we had a meeting with several organisations in these industries – the Freight Car Association, etc. – last Friday, and we have agreed to a new meeting on approx. 14 days from the last Friday of. There we will discuss the overall framework conditions of the industry, without I now want to anticipate what the result will be. But the industry has taken pleasure in this extended hand, and will help us at least to have a good dialogue now towards the revised national budget, which I expect is the time to present views to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e492	There will be follow-up questions – Hill-Marta Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e495	My question relates to the so-called incentive that State Council Restad was in, the 25 ears that would influence the consumer to choose a more environmentally friendly diesel. Just before Stortinget adopted the budget, questions were asked to the Ministry of Finance about the availability of the new diesel, and the Ministry of Finance confirmed that it would be available from 1 January. My question to Restad is: Is this assumption fulfilled? And then, if it isn't, does Restad agree that a bit of the assumption for the decision of the Storting is gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e502	This incentive of 25 øre as a sulphur tax, proposed by the Government and adopted by the Stortinget, came at the recommendation of the industry itself – if you wanted to get the environmental diesel available earlier. It was considered that this incentive would be sufficient to have the environmental diesel available on the whole market during the current year. Then there has been a little back and forth – unfortunately also in a letter from the Petroleum Institute, to which we relate – when it comes to whether this will be fulfilled or not, and many have already concluded that the decision has failed. The latest information we have, after a meeting with the Petroleum Institute last Thursday, is that it actually goes faster than the Government did when it comes to adding environmental diesel to the Norwegian market. Today, virtually only environmental diesel is run out on the Norwegian market, because this 25 øre incentive is sufficient and perhaps slightly above what was needed to make this environmental diesel available. So in terms of availability, it should at least go well, but it depends on the price evolution of environmental diesel in the international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e507	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e510	We have now been informed that the lorry drivers are leaving employees on the grounds that they are losing in competition with non-resident carriers. The next thing is that Norwegian petrol stations in Finnmark leave their employees on the grounds that the owners of trucks and vehicle trains drive to Finland to fill their fuel. The difference between Finland and Norway is about. NOK 3 in Norwegian disfavor. One point of light, however, is that 80 rapporteurs, rapporteurs and group leaders from the Central Party have recognized that the situation in the District of Norway is at risk. They say, among other things: in an opinion: ‘Increased expenditure results in both reduced competitiveness, lower production and less use of resources in the districts.’ Does the Minister of Finance intend to wait until District Norway is closed before he makes proposals to lower diesel taxes, as is the case with 80 of his rapporteurs? Or is it that these 80 - the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs - are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e521	As I said in my first answer, there is no doubt that here we can get into a conflict between the considerations of, among other things. districts and the transport industry, and taking into account that road transport charges are intended to cover society's costs. I would also recommend Kenneth Svendsen to read the TØI report that we get in a few days' time, the main conclusion being that, in terms of heavy traffic, and especially heavy traffic in cities and urban areas, the charges cover the social costs as defined in the report. I don't want to forge what the result of the dialogue we've now started with the industry will be, but we're, of course, taking the industry seriously, and then we'll see if it's possible to come up with a solution that both takes care of the environment and meets the needs of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e526	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e529	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, so he can stand still! What will the Minister of Finance do with sommel in his own department relating to the implementation of the decision of the Stortingen to exempt from the investment levy on hydropower from 1 January of this year? Information I have suggests that the 7th month decision is in the Department of the Council of State. I assume that the Council of State has knowledge of what this inflexibility in this context leads to: total drought in the start-up of new projects, lay-offs and further redundancies in a supplier industry that basically had nothing to do. That was the reason why Stortingen’s decision to exempt investment taxes was made. This is very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e536	To the extent that there is some meal going on in my department, I will of course take care of it, because that is not acceptable. But I do not want to sign that this is the reason why nothing has yet happened. It is unfortunately some time since I last updated on how this matter is now standing in our department, but I know that last fall we were working on this matter, so there were problems with boundaries – what delimitation they were actually talking about. There was a very great tension between the narrowest definition of a delimitation and the most liberal definition of delimitation. But I can promise to raise the question as soon as I get back to the department today, and update on the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e541	I just want to update the Council of State already on the clarifications that have been made. It is quite right that the Council of State asked some questions to the Stortinget on 4 October in connection with the State budget, but the problems associated with demarcation were then clarified by the fact that the Stortinget, by a large majority, clarified that maintenance investments should also be included in the exemption. So here it should be okay for the Council of State to – I don't know if it's possible to say it like that – do their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e546	We'll get the best sense of the advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e549	Yes, I do. I cannot say anything other than what I said before – I am unfortunately not up-to-date at the moment as to why nothing has happened to that matter. But I'm going to promise today, when I come back to the department in an hour, to raise the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e556	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e561	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e564	I have a question for Minister of Finance Restad. The commuters and their woes have been a lot ahead of us in the tax debate, and we have called for new rules and new regulations so that we can get it right. Now I understand that the regulations are out of consultation, and they're supposed to be done midsummer or something like that. The Council of State now sees a need to clean up these regulations and to have the same signs between commuters in different places in the country when it comes to the tax equation. What we see now is a formidable forced movement of commuters. We even see that they are denied passports because they are not classified as permanent residents, and this cooking plate history also seems to be a new farce around. Doesn't the Council of State now see the need to clean up the commuting equation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e571	It is true that for many years there has been a good deal of concern about both the status of commuters and the expenditure to be reimbursed when they are considered to be commuters, where they are considered to be resident, etc. It's been a series of problematic questions. We have taken care of the matter and now operate and investigate a part. Some have already been sent to the hearing, and something has actually been clarified. In particular, with regard to the question of what is regarded as work travel and what is professional travel, a new regulatory provision was laid down a few days ago, on 18 January, which should, as far as possible, address these issues. However, I see in the newspapers that there are still some remaining problems, especially for those who have two permanent jobs. Then there may be large costs which, if covered by the employer, could be considered taxable income for the employee. But we're also going to grab hold of this and clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e577	There has been some concern about the new tax rules with new regulations on the distinction between private and service travel. Doesn't the Council of State now see the need to clean up at this point as well? There are now several workers who have their place of work in two places and who live in one place. What we're seeing now is that these employees are being taxed for their travel expenses. So it's no longer considered a service requirement. Governments must also take the new time into their regulations on commuting patterns in this country. It is completely unreasonable as the new tax rules have been put in place at this point. What will the council do to clean up this, and when will he do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e582	In the new regulation that I mentioned, to which Nordtun now refers, the general rule is that travelling between the place of residence and the permanent place of work and travelling between permanent places of work is work, which is then to be covered by the employee himself, and to the extent that the employer covers this, it is considered to be taxable income for the taxpayer. The normal thing is to have one permanent place of work. Therefore, travelling from bopel to a non-permanent place of work or from a permanent place of work to a non-permanent place of work will be a professional journey to be covered by the employer. We need to address the question of whether you can have two permanent jobs, for example. One in Oslo and one in Bergen, which I think has been an example. It seems relatively unreasonable immediately if an employee has to cover such expenses on his own account, but that is, as I said, something we need to consider in more detail and find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e587	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e590	It is important to address the last mentioned by the Council of State, because according to the estimates provided by the Official Journal of Bergen regarding the outcome of the new regulation, this means that a person who works one or two days in Oslo and commutes back and forth from, for example. Bergen could risk getting an extra supplement of 213,000 kroner, for which he would then pay taxes. It would be a principle that was completely unreasonable. In addition, this has enormous regional policy implications. This means that whenever we are going to deal with a localization issue, or whenever someone is going to deal with a question about the location of their head office, if any branches, they have to take into account that those who have to get stuck between two places might cost NOK 200 000 to NOK 300000 more, and that this is to be added to the individual's equation. And then we also know what's going to happen, that it's going to be put on top of their income -- just to get this covered. I really think that regulation should have been withdrawn with immediate effect, and that they had found completely different solutions to this. This is completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e597	I fully agree with Erna Solberg that the example she was now referring to is an unreasonable expression of the regulation that is laid down. Of course, it wasn't supposed to be like this. The normal and general rule must, of course, be that you have one permanent place of work and that other places of work are not considered a permanent place of work. In this case, the employer will have this covered by the employer without any tax problems for the taxpayer – when one travels either from bopel to the non-permanent place of work or from the permanent place of work to the non-permanent place of work. So this is what we're dealing with. I do not want to conclude with what the solution is, but I certainly believe that it is not necessary to withdraw the prescription. This can probably be adjusted in place so that you don't get the unreasonable results as shown here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e602	Ranveig Frøiland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e605	What is normal today is not so easy to say. The labour market today is such that you have to travel around this country to do your job – so it may be a little different. I don't have a question at all, I just want to make it clear that when the council says this is unnatural, the questioner has pointed it out and the right has also pointed it out, it would be very nice to tell people that we shouldn't just look at this, we're cleaning it up. There is a lot of confusion and confusion about all this with commuting if you want to send a new regulation out on your ears. So I just affirm that the matter has now found its solution, and that the Council of State is cleaning up this relationship immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e612	I can agree with the questioner that it is difficult to say what is normal in our age, but the normal thing should be that you have one permanent place of work, and then the rest of the work places are considered not a permanent place of work. In that case, this is no longer a problem. But we have to figure out a way to define this. For two permanent jobs cannot be excluded, but this should not be the normal one and the starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e617	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e622	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment, who will direct him. Question 6, from the representative Per Erik Monsen to the Minister for Finance, lapses, as the questioner has a disease defect. Question 9, from the representative of Toril Haaland Horpestad to the Minister of Justice, will be raised by the representative of Jan Simonsen. Question 10, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Justice, will be answered by the Minister for Transport who directs him. Question 12, from the representative Rolf Rikvam to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Anneliese Dørum to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 14, from the representative Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will, at the request of the Council of State, be moved and answered in response to question 30, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 16, from the representative of Unn Aarrestad to the Minister for Social Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 22, from the representative Per Sandberg to the Minister for the Environment, will be moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 23, from the representative Signe Øye to the Minister for Labour and Administration, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 28, from the representative of Toril Haaland Horpestad to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Jan Simonsen. Question 30, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be taken up by the representative of Arvid Falch.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e658	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Family: ‘In view of the fact that a Norwegian mother was deprived of parental responsibility and care for her daughter in 1990, the European Court of Human Rights delivered a judgment on 7 August 1996 declaring that the waiver of parental responsibility and the right of association were in breach of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights. Instead of returning to the mother, the child is being coerced to the foster parents. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this does not happen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e667	It is true that on 7 August 1996, Norway was convicted of a violation of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights in a child protection case. The Court of Human Rights, after a concrete assessment, found that in this case there were insufficient grounds for taking such a radical decision as the refusal of association and the waiver of parental responsibility for the purpose of adoption. What the Court of Human Rights considered and took a position on was the basis of these decisions at the time they were taken, i.e. in 1990. The judgment of the Court of Human Rights is confined to the administration of the case by the municipality. The Court did not criticise the administration or the Norwegian courts for handling the case. Nor did the Court of Human Rights decide what was going to happen to the child in 1996 or later. I want to make it clear that in this case, it has never been a matter of bringing the child back to the biological mother before in the very last period. In the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, the Norwegian authorities did not break Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights when care for the child was taken and later maintained. The further follow-up to the specific case falls within the area of child protection and the jurisdiction of the courts. What happens to the child must be determined based on what is currently the best interests of the child. As Minister for Children and Family Affairs, I have no right to intervene in the handling of this matter today. The competence to consent to adoption falls within the competence of the county council. The county council is an independent government body, which cannot be instructed by the ministry in the handling of individual matters. The parties' decisions may be brought before the courts for review. When it comes to the general questions raised by the case, the Ministry of Child and Family Affairs informed about the protection of children in 1996. All municipalities, county councillors, county councillors and county councillors were given the judgment in Norwegian translation together with an orientation letter from the department. It was underlined in the letter that it is important that the board of directors sympathise with the practice of the child protection law in accordance with the conditions laid down in the judgment. I would also like to remind you that the judgment states that it was not the legislation, but the practice of the legislation in this specific case which the Court found to be unconventional. As you know, child protection laws have also changed in important areas since the matter in question was handled by Norwegian authorities. Among other things, legal certainty has been strengthened by the creation of the county councillors, and children and their parents have been clarified by law and pre-work. I also want to add that to that, among other things. in the light of the judgment of the Court of Human Rights, an evaluation has been carried out under the auspices of the Norwegian Board of Research of the Children's Protection Act, § 4-20, which concerns the waiver of parental responsibility. The evaluation will examine whether the content of Sections 4 to 20 and its practice comply with the requirements of the Convention on Human Rights. The evaluation will probably be completed in the course of the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e685	I thank you for the answer, which I am in no way satisfied with. Once again, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs shows the attitude that she disclaims responsibility for what is happening in Norwegian child protection, and per. definition never does anything wrong with child protection in Norway. It is well established in the court that it was not right, it was actually illegal to deprive this mother of parental rights, and that is what is at stake in this first instance. Then I think it is remarkable that the Prime Minister for Children and Family, the highest body we have in the administration and in the political environment in this area, cannot go in and ensure that a judgment in this court is followed up, as the Court has stated. Because it's not from Røa Children's Protection. I ask again: will not the Council of State now take responsibility and ensure that the decision in the Court of Justice is complied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e694	Here it is not a matter of the Minister for Children and Family disclaiming the responsibility that I have, because I am very conscious of that. What is probably also well known by the representative is that it is the county council and the court that is to follow up Norwegian legislation. The Minister for Children shall not intervene specifically in such cases. I believe the representative knows that too, and it is a law that the Stortinget has decided to operate in this way. I can go in and get information about matters, but I don't have the power to intervene and decide that the board will change decisions. It is outside my remit, and I thought the representative knew that. The verdict stated that what happened at the time in 1990 was wrong. What we can do with that judgment is that we can learn from him, so that such decisions are not made later on the wrong premises. But the verdict didn't say anything about what was going to happen to this child in retrospect. [[The President clubs.]] We must bear in mind that this child has lived with foster parents from a few weeks old until today without contact with the mother until the last. It must also mean something.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e701	It's about time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e704	I thank you again for the answer. There's nothing wrong with the ministry being able to use the ordinary private legal system if you think something's wrong in the county. The mother in question has per cent. the date on which the decision of the European Court of Human Rights was taken on 7 August 1996, except for two hours of association on 30 October 1999, when ordered by the County Council of Røa Barneværk. This brief meeting was very successful, but foster parents viewed it as negative. So now you're about to adopt this child against the will of your mother. Red Child Protection has stood on the side of foster parents, which is what child protection usually does, and counters the child's own desire to meet her mother. The child suffers from this daily, and the mother is well fit as a caregiver, as she has four other minor children in her care. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the daughter and mother have regular association in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e715	The representative describes a meeting between mother and child. Of course, I'm not going to go into the details, but I'm actually quite overconfident that child protection, when they look at that matter, has the best intention of the child, and they also have to decide. I want to remind the representative that there are not so many weeks since we had another matter up in Question Time, where the decision was opposed, with foster parents who wanted to continue as it did, and a mother who wanted to get the child back. Then the council took the opposite decision. So here they have decided that the child should still be with foster parents. This says a little about how difficult these matters are. The full picture of the child's condition is not given by reporters in newspapers or by talking to a party. Child protection has the foreman that they both have their eyesight. As far as I can see, I must have confidence that child protection makes the right decision for the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e725	I will ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions: ‘The introduction of cash support had a debate on how well the law was processed. Research and pilot projects, among other things, were requested. The Council of State then considered that this had no significance, as the scheme was to be evaluated and, if necessary, modified by unintended effects. Can the Council of State explain when, and in what form, such an overall evaluation will be presented to the Stortinget?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e734	The claim that the Council of State didn't think it had any meaning, I'm going to let it go. I'm not quite sure if I recognize that claim. But it has, as the Presidency has always been, of course, been committed to a broad evaluation of cash support, precisely to ensure the best possible knowledge of how the scheme works. I have done well for the various elements of this evaluation in response to written questions from the representative Fossum last February. The rule has always been that research reports, project results and statistics on use are published gradually, as soon as they are published, so that we can all share the knowledge. The central statistical agency has already carried out and published two studies on the plans of families for cash support and how they will use it — in the spring of 1998 and in the spring of 1999. The Norwegian Research Council coordinates a mini-research programme to cover problem settings addressed by the Storting during the debate on cash support – impact on equality and the labour market, impact on vulnerable children groups, regional impact and distribution effects. The results here will come during this year and next year. Several researchers have already published reports with cash support as a theme. The Ministry has also taken the initiative to launch more long-term research in the field. Both social and nursery statistics are produced on a rolling basis and provide us with knowledge of the use of the scheme. The budget proposal in the autumn did well for what we knew last August, and we are going to follow this up with mention also in the budget proposal this year. In addition, I intend to inform Stortinget about the experience of the cash support scheme during this downtime, most likely in the spring of 2001. Then we have two years of experience with a fully-fledged scheme, and families with children of this age have been able to plan care where they were sure that the cash support scheme was in place. The format of this feedback will not be enabled yet. We need to see that in conjunction with the other issues from the Government to the Storing in this period. But as soon as it is clear, we will be briefing on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e745	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As you know, the Government introduced the cash support system very quickly and completely without thorough preparations or impact assessments. For this reason, there have also been very many questions from different bodies about the impact of this scheme. Therefore, I am concerned that Stortinget cannot be presented with individual reports, but that we need to get a comprehensive and good evaluation of what the cash support has resulted in. That's why I think the lookup in the nations a few days ago was quite eye-catching. I would also like to say that it is at the limit of political cowardice when the government will not follow up well enough what is actually also a point in the cash support agreement between the five parties. I think there is a reason to ask if the government is actually afraid to know what kind of consequences the cash support has had for children with special needs for offers or what kind of consequences it has had for the availability of labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e754	The representative says that there was a ‘apparent’ look in the nations for some time. I expect the representative to read the Nations daily. If she does, she will have seen that look up I have corrected. I have said that of course Stortinget will get this back. Our intention has always been to give an overall assessment. The one who spoke to the Nation, he couldn't answer clearly, was in any way, because we haven't actually adopted that yet. But when we've decided, the Storting will be informed. The size is going to get a total result of what we know about the consequences of the cash shock, with all the issues that we raised in the proposition, and that the Storting was concerned about in the setting and in the debate. As I also said in my first answer, it will probably come in spring 2001. It shall at least come during this landfilling period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e761	Thank you again for your answer. Yes, then we have the hope – and we want to take the Council of State on the word – that we will have a joint and good review of the Stortinget. But then we also have hope that the government will take the consequences of the evaluation, so that we will have changes to the cash support scheme if it turns out that we now have some unintended effects, among other things. in relation to children with special needs, labour, and if father does not withdraw cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e768	Based on the way the representative formulates the question, at least I hear what he wants to be the result of these evaluations. I have to admit that I hope the result is something more positive than the representative thinks it will be. But I've never hidden that if there's a big negative outcome, of course we have to look at the code. We do that in relation to all reforms. This is not the first reform that has been changed since its adoption and implementation. I can refer you to Finland, where they have had cash support for 10-15 years now, and there have been changes on several occasions. So of course we're open to it. It may not be the representative of Bekkelem Orheim and I'm just a few in what are the disastrous consequences here, but I think that the research and evaluation will show us where we might need to make changes, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e778	This question, from the representative of Grethe G. Fossum to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e781	I want to address the question to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, and I am not quite sure whether the Minister for the Environment is right to answer it, but it is the Government that chooses: ‘The Ministry of the Environment will spend money on information on predators for the population in predatory areas. The knowledge of predators shall provide greater insight into the behaviour of predators, thereby altering people’s own fears and behaviour in relation to predators. kindergarten children shall also be provided with information on predators. How is this information to be done, and what kind of behavioural change does the Council of State expect our young children to receive such information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e790	The reason why the representative has to find out that I am the one answering is that I am the main person responsible for the information that the government is working with. Nature in Norway is very varied, with sea, fjords, forests and mountains. Here, people have lived for a long time and gained insight into natural conditions. Those who live and travel on the coast and in the mountains have knowledge of weather and terrain, and they know how to behave when unexpected situations arise. The mountain-wet rules are an example to illustrate this. Often it is that knowledge of the natural environment gives a personal sense of security. Fauna is an important part of the nature of Norway. As the populations of some major predatory species grow after almost a long period of time, there is a need for knowledge of this part of nature. The majority of the population have pointed to the need for more knowledge and better information on the large predators, at the latest in the treatment of the state budget for 2000. The Ministry of the Environment has also received requests for such information from municipalities, schools and individuals in the areas where large predators are present. The Ministry of the Environment is therefore working on several information projects. First of all, a simple information leaflet will be created, such as: can tell you more about the behaviour of the big predators. Furthermore, I would like to support a communication project developed by Sollia clay school in Stor-Elvdal, where the aim is to increase knowledge of predators, among others. in children and adolescents. The Ministry of the Environment will also cooperate with the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research on the dissemination of knowledge to schools. I also want to support a film project on wolves. In addition, we are under assessment applications from several organisations that wish to provide financial support for the provision of information on predatory game. In addition, the Directorate for Nature Management already provides up-to-date Internet-based information on predatory game, which has proved to be popular. It's not like I have expectations of special behavioural changes in parts of the population as a result of our information work, as the representative Fossum suggests in his question. The aim of the authorities’ work in this field is to contribute to the dissemination of factual knowledge about the natural conditions in Norway to both children and adults. All kindergarten children in Norway are familiar with the sluggish and greedy wolf in the ‘Red Heat and Wolf’ adventure. In any case, for the sake of balance, it may be important that children also become familiar with the more actual conditions of the wolf through the subject areas set up by the framework for kindergartens in the field of nature, environment and technology. One of the objectives here is to provide children with basic experience and knowledge of nature, ecology, environmental protection and the interaction of nature. Another objective is to give children basic experience and knowledge of man, animals and crops and their interdependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e807	I thank you for the answer and am amazed that the Minister for the Environment feels competent to answer purely child-care questions. Clearly, when you get knowledge, you change behavior, and that must be the purpose of a knowledge project. In Stor-Elvdal, we want to launch a project on predatory knowledge, and the aim is to provide security, to prevent irrational fear and to provide knowledge about predators. The target group is children and young people, and you are going into kindergarten. My question is: Have you obtained permission for this from the Ministry of Children and Family? Have you gained approval in relation to the methods to be used, or do you want to go into the kindergarten as you did in the old Soviet Union, where it was that if you grabbed the soul of the children when they were little, you had them? What kind of influence does the Minister for the Environment want to give to our kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e816	We experience that there is a clear sense of fear in parts of the population in those areas that have the big predators. The experience that we have so far in different areas is that the best way to counter unjustified fear is information, and that is the background to wanting to get information to all parts of the population — including the children. I don't have much to do with the methods of the old Soviet, I'm a real and good liberal from the Left, with people's information as a clear and good tradition, and I can assure the representative that the work will take place in cooperation with the department concerned and in line with the legislation that is for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e825	I thank you for your answer. The council says that she wants to enter into factual knowledge, and that not only the fairy tale of the 'Red Heat and Wolf' is what gives young children knowledge of our predators. This means, among other things: that she will go into the nursery and tell them that predators eat other animals, the predators harm mother's and father's sheep herd and cause lambs to be bitten over the snout and starved in whole. Predators can be dangerous to humans, as the Environment Minister said here in the previous Question Time, and predators can actually kill people. Is that the knowledge you want to go into kindergarten and convey, or is it another rosy story? If you were to make mountain-wet rules against predators, for kindergarten children, then rule no. 1 be: predators are dangerous; there is no danger of turning; they get the best out seen through the window of a car, and wolf alone does not kill; but two together they are dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e834	I don't know if I'm going to thank you for the recordings from the representative Fossum for the training facility in kindergartens. What is my honest attempt on this issue is actually to contribute to the best possible match between subjective emotions and fear and real reason for feeling fear. We have a long country, we have a hard country, and for many, many generations, we have had to deal with nature, which can be dangerous for people whether we are talking about predators, an elk with calves, going out on the fjord in a boat or going skiing in the Easter mountain. Then I think it's natural that we try to draw lessons from the knowledge we've imparted, about how nature can be dangerous, and how to act to reduce the risk of it becoming dangerous, in other areas where we have experience through generations. In the case of wolves, there's a relatively new problem, because we're about to avoid the wolf being eradicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e841	So we go to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e847	I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘For nearly three years, the county office of the Environmental Protection Department of Nord-Trøndelag has been hiding a positive decision from the Department on the construction of a cabin for a married couple from Nord-Trøndelag. What does the Council of State think of such an approach from the Northern Trøndelag Environmental Protection Department?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e856	The Ministry of the Environment has raised the matter with the county council in Nord-Trøndelag. It appears that no copy of the decision of the Ministry was sent to the action holders. A final sentence of the decision of the Ministry, in which the county council was asked to inform the municipality and the action holder, was ignored. The case was taken note of and added to the archive. Of course, this is not acceptable. The County has complained to both the Ministry, the applicants and the municipality. It is quite clear that there is a fault on the part of the administration. Notwithstanding this case, the Ministry of the Environment has changed its procedures so that today copies of all decisions are sent directly to the parties. This will reduce the possibility of this type of error occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e863	I thank you for your answer. Of course, I have registered that the Environmental Protection Officer and the County Council of the North Trøndelag have expressed their regret in the matter, just as the Council of State here does. Based on the Council of State's response, I interpret it so that such a complaint outweighs the great overtramp that has been committed against the married couple in the Nord-Trøndelag. I would like to receive an answer to the following questions from the Council of State: Does she consider this to be a service failure at all, or is there something that can occur naturally? As far as I know, such a decision will automatically be passed on to those concerned. In the event of this being a lack of service, in which category will the Council of State place it: small gross, medium gross or strong gross? I could also plan to clarify the liability in this context. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State: where will the Council of State place responsibility in this matter, and should this not have consequences for those responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e874	I am now looking at the matter, not least what has happened, when and who is responsible for it. And therefore, I do not want from Stortinget’s Chair to conclude specifically on the questions asked by the representative here, until I have completed it. But I'd like to get back to the questions. I want to stress that it is important for all parts of the administration to work in a way that provides trust, and that therefore we will do our utmost to change procedures, so that the risk of something similar happening in the future will be reduced. At the same time, it's as well-known as human beings to fail. Of course, the results of the mistakes you make must be assessed against their severity and the severity of their impact on the other party, before considering the possible consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e881	I thank you again for the answer, which unfortunately had a content that I feared in advance. The Council of State does not therefore see that there is a need for a preliminary position of responsibility. That's what might characterize government as a whole. But when one does not want to place this responsibility, I will turn the question into another track. I guess there's a consensus that the couple Gärtsås has become the victim of – let's call it this time – a mistake. Then it might be agreed that the couple here has suffered a loss in the matter. This may include the appreciation of cabins, price increases and interest rates, in addition to the injustice they have suffered. Does the Council of State think it would be right to consider some form of compensation for the married couple, both in connection with the losses they have suffered, and to build confidence in the Environmental Protection Department in the North-Trendelag?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e888	I did not actually say from the pulpit that liability was not necessary, but that I think it is necessary to look into the matter more closely before I may make such a placement, and that I do not want to take it from the pulpit of Storting. With regard to any question of compensation, the Ministry does not have enough information on the matter today to provide an assessment. If such a question were to be raised, it would be dealt with in accordance with the rules in force in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e895	Then we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e901	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Taiwan is a democracy with 22 million inhabitants who are denied membership of the World Health Organisation and the World Trade Organisation. What is the reason for this, and will the Government take the initiative to give one of East Asia's few democracies its rightful place in these two international organisations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e910	Together with a large majority of the world’s countries, Norway is pursuing a one-China policy. Taiwan is considered part of China. Norway has diplomatic relations with China and consequently no official relations with Taiwan. At the same time, unofficial relations with Taiwan have increased significantly in recent years, particularly in the economic field. Taiwan’s strong economic growth has led to a significant increase in trade with many countries, including Norway. Norway has taken a positive view of Taiwan's participation in international and regional fora of an economic and commercial nature, such as GATT, now the WTO, and the OECD. The Government will continue to support such participation of Taiwan in the international community. Taiwan complies with WTO membership requirements but will not be accepted until China is a fully-fledged WTO member. China is now in the final phase of 13 years of negotiations on this. Bilateral negotiations are still to be concluded between China and some individual countries, but this is expected to happen in the near future. Norway is among the countries that have concluded their bilateral negotiations with China. I am therefore pleased that both China and Taiwan will be able to become members of the WTO during the current year. The World Health Organisation is a UN organisation with countries as members. Taiwan has applied for observer status in the organisation, which China opposes. This question was raised for the first time at the Health Assembly in 1997. There was a recommendation from the General Committee of the Health Assembly that the matter should not be placed on the agenda, and the recommendation was put to the vote. Norway voted as the other Nordic and Western European countries for the recommendation of the General Committee, which was adopted by a large majority. The United States was one of five countries that abstained from voting, while 19 countries voted against. The question of Taiwan’s observer status was also raised at the Health Assembly in 1998 and 1999, but then the reports of the General Committee at this point were approved without a vote. Let me conclude by adding that the Government is very positive about the fact that there is a democracy in Taiwan. It is our wish that the dialogue between Taiwan and mainland China should now be further developed in a way that ensures peace and stability in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e931	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer, which was positive, at least partly, in the case of the World Trade Organisation. But I think it must be ethically problematic for a government that professes human rights and democracy, that democracy should be made Taiwan's recognition in international society dependent on China's dictatorship's acceptance of the same? Is it necessary for Norway to pursue a one-China policy? Is it ethically justified when Taiwan is actually a country of its own, if not in formality – they have their own government and their own president, and they conduct their own foreign policy? Then my question is: is it always necessary to start with this that we have the view that Taiwan should be part of China, when it is not, and that it should decide whether to recognise democracy and give it its rightful place in international forums, where it can contribute materially, also economically?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e940	Now not only China is concerned with the one-China question, it has been Taiwan as well. I have to admit that I'm not quite sure what is the official policy of the current government in Taiwan, but former governments and political parties in Taiwan have been concerned that they should regain power in China, so there has to be no disagreement that there is only one China, the disagreement has been in where power should be. That's why we see it, as I said, as positive that there has been a dialogue in recent years, there have been contacts between the Taipei and Beijing authorities. We've encouraged it. In our contacts with the authorities in Beijing, we have underlined the importance of that dialogue, examined how it goes and supported it. We hope that this can continue, and that is more important than a Norwegian marker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e945	As far as the World Health Organisation is concerned, my question about not the Government is now going to reconsider its view, that Norway is voting for Taiwan to be admitted, at least as requested, namely as an observer, and that gives the statutes occasion. I think it is alarming that we think it is good to have dictatorships as members – Cuba, North Korea, Myanmar, Iran, China and Laos – but that we refuse a democracy to become a member. This is an organisation to promote health and well-being, no matter what other policies you have, and it should be an obvious wish for the Government to bring along these 22 million people who live in Taiwan, no matter what else you choose to believe: whether you will in the future get to one China or whether there will be two countries, as it has actually been since Taiwan started, to say it like that. So my question is, does the government see it as desirable to get Taiwan, and will they vote to give it observer status?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e950	From the Norwegian side, we see it as useful and appropriate that as much as possible, both countries, territories and territories, are with us in the World Health Organisation, precisely on the basis of the issue pointed out by the representative Höegh, that this is about health. But there is probably some disagreement between the representative, Høegh, and me, about the statutes giving rise to this. According to the information I have – of course, I want to check them again – only states can be members of the World Health Organisation. Territories may be associated members, but with the consent of the Management Board of the WTO and on the proposal or consent of the country having sovereignty over the territory in question. This applies, for example: Puerto Rico, which has an associated membership of the World Health Organisation, but with the consent of the United States. It is unlikely – at least at this stage – that it will be agreed from China.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e958	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: «Other municipalities in More and Romesdal have had a significant failure in the tax revenue in 1999, which will continue this year as well. One reason is the conversion of corporation tax in 1999. In the past, this tax went to municipalities and provinces, now it goes to the state. When the conversion came, it was promised that the municipalities would receive compensation for this, but it has not happened. In what way will the Council of State correct this promise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e967	The representative of Laila Kaland claims that there has been a significant tax failure in the municipalities of More and Rome. It's a somewhat doubtful claim. Whether there has been a failure in tax access depends on what you compare with – the local government’s own expectations and budgeting or, for example, the tax revenue of the previous year. Taking the last starting point, the tax intake in 1999 varied strongly in the municipalities of More and Romsdal – from a minus of 23.2 and 10.4 pst, respectively. in Aure and Here Island to a plus of over 14 pst. of Gemnes and Tustna. The statistics show that the tax revenues of the municipalities of More and Romsdal increased by 2.1 pst. from 1998 to 1999. However, this is only half of the increase in tax revenue for all municipalities in the country other than Oslo. If we also take the municipality of Oslo, where the tax revenue was significantly reduced from the previous year, the tax revenue of the municipalities increased by 2.3 pst. on a national basis. So we can draw the conclusion that tax revenue in the municipalities of More and Romesdal has increased less than the national average, but the term tax failure is still somewhat misleading. There are usually regional and local variations in the tax input. The representative of Laila Kaland claims that the alleged tax failure can be linked to the liquidation of municipal corporation tax and that the municipalities have not received compensation. That's not right. Municipal corporation tax was converted into State taxes in the 1999 financial framework. This was compensated by raising the municipal taxpayer for personal taxpayers and by increasing the natural resource tax within the power plant tax. In addition, a special grant was set up for the Municipality of Oslo, and some other municipalities with a significant loss of income were compensated by discretionary means, including a municipality in More and Romesdal. The 1999 figures show that total tax revenue on a national basis for municipalities and counties was about 200 million. kr higher than that laid down in the adopted municipality scheme for 1999. In the 1999 municipal economy proposition, tables were presented showing the consequences for each municipality of removing municipal corporation tax and increasing the tax from personal taxpayers. Here it was clear that most municipalities in More and Romesdal would win on this conversion, among other things. because the proportion of municipal tax revenue collected from companies was not particularly high in Møre and Romesdal. The representative of Laila Kaland also claims that the alleged tax failure in the municipalities of More and Romesdal will continue the current year. As mentioned above, it is unlikely that the slightly lower tax input in the municipalities of More and Romesdal compared to the national average can be linked to the conversion of corporate tax, rather this conversion would be beneficial for the municipalities of More and Romesdal, cf. the abovementioned calculations in the 1999 Community Economy Proposition. Secondly, it should be recalled that from 2000 onwards, the balancing of tax revenues for municipalities and counties will be carried out on an ongoing basis in relation to the actual tax input over the year. For municipalities that come under this scheme, the tax intake in their own municipality will have relatively little impact on the total income, since 90 pst. a failure or increase in excess of the national average is offset in the same year. Once the new system has been fully implemented from 2001, the reference level for cohesion will be 110 pst. and the degree of compensation of 90 pst. Of the municipalities of Møre and Romsdal, only two municipalities, Norddal and Ulstein, are located above the tax equalisation limit. On average, taxes are per person. built-in for municipalities in More and Romesdal on about 90 pst. of the national average. For these municipalities, therefore, the development of tax revenue on a national basis will mainly determine the total income from taxes and balancing subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e988	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. The local government sector currently has a very difficult economy. The 1998 operating deficit was NOK 6.7 billion – the worst operating result since 1988. The cyclone municipality, my own municipality, had a deficit in its 1999 operating balance sheet of 5-6 million. kr, even if we have full employment. It is said that one of the reasons for this is that one has not been compensated for the company tax at all. If the Minister of Finance really thinks that the promise of compensation for the loss of company tax has been fulfilled towards the municipal sector, how will he contribute to this being documented and visible to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e999	I agree with Laila Kaland that many municipalities are disadvantaged. They have obviously received more tasks than funds have been allocated to, and there is something the Government will be most aware of when we are going to make the municipal plan for the next year, and when we are going to present the budget for the autumn. Of course, I can't say anything about what it will contain, but the government is fully aware of the situation. But the link that Laila Kaland makes between the liquidation of corporate tax and the difficult local economy, which I tried to figure out in my main answer, is not correct. There was a compensation that was thought to be correct when the company tax was converted into a full state tax. I have here an overview of how the tax revenue has been in the different municipalities, also in More and Romesdal. From this I see that in the case of the municipality that Laila Kaland now mentioned, her own municipality Sykkylven, it is correct that in 1999 it has come out with a minus in relation to the tax revenue in 1998. So it is understandable that there may be financial problems there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1008	I want to thank the Council of State for what he said. We know that most municipalities in More and Romesdal are the smallest income municipalities, and they have difficulty sewing together their budgets. It also confirmed the Minister of Finance. For this reason, tasks are imposed by the Stortinget, which is difficult to carry out — rather, it is about the closure of school classes, about the savings in options, and all of this that the Minister of Finance is well aware of. I would like to ask the Council of State whether, according to what the Prime Minister has said, the local government sector will in the future have a monthly increase in the framework transfers. Does he want to be involved in that work? The majority of the municipal committee have agreed that we should have an overall evaluation of the tax revenues of the municipalities. That's what I think is absolutely necessary, because what people in the municipal sector say to me is that the state takes most of the money that this sector receives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1019	It's true, as Laila Kaland now pointed out, that most of the municipalities in More and Romesdal are so-called minimum income municipalities. From my first answer, it turned out that of the 38 municipalities in our home state, only two are not minimum income municipalities. This means that the 36 municipalities will have a development close to the national average — as there will be an annual balancing of tax revenue from the tax intake. There will be a cohesion in relation to developments on a country-by-country basis, based on a level of 110 pst. and a smoothing rate of 90 pst. So, of course, when the Prime Minister makes his statement, it's not anyone in the government, to say it that way, who makes a statement. He has given us signals that we are aware that there are municipalities that have problems and that we need to do something about it. It was also in my previous answer that the government is aware of the challenges the municipalities are facing, and that we will take it with us in the preparation of the municipal economic proposition for the spring, and when we present the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1038	This question lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1044	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: «The border trade is approaching 10 billion. kronor and is the greatest threat to employment and business and thus to the income tax of municipalities. The possibilities of providing good living conditions for their citizens are thus seriously weakened, as well as the accident and crime resulting from smuggling. Is there any professional advice from the SSB to save the country's economy that is the cause of the Government's unreasonable charging policy, including petrol, diesel, alcohol and tobacco, with the consequences I have mentioned above, or is there any other explanation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1053	Initially, I would just like to remind you that I have also previously answered questions from the representative Hernæs regarding border trade, among others. my response to his interpellation on 15 April last year. Next, when the border trade amounted to NOK 7 billion, a figure he has now ‘adjusted’ to nearly NOK 10 billion. As I have pointed out in the past, estimates of the level of border trade are very uncertain because the statistical base is poor. There is now a study on the role of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade in order to identify the scale and composition of border trade. The survey will cover the year 2000, and the results will be available on approx. one year. I assume that the reference to the Central Statistical Office refers to an opinion from Research Director Ådne Cappelen to the Newspaper on 27 January, where one can read that Swedish trade is good for Norway in the current economic situation. Let me therefore state that fuel, alcohol and tobacco taxes are not fixed to mitigate the level of activity in Norway through increased trade leakage to Sweden. In addition to providing revenue to the country, these charges aim to limit the consumption of products harmful to health and the environment. For example, fuel taxes intend to praise the damage and disadvantages caused by road traffic to society. One consequence of the high charges is, among other things: a certain commercial leakage to Sweden. This trade leakage alone weakens the effectiveness of charging policies, both in terms of providing revenue to the country and in terms of taking care of health and the environment. On the other hand, a reduction in these charges to the Swedish level could both give rise to a significant amount of progeny cover and, at the same time, increase the total consumption of the products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1069	I would like to thank you for your answer. I can confirm that not only last year, but about every year since the dawn of time, we have had a dialogue on the trade leakage and the border trade. I'm not the one who has adjusted the estimates from NOK 7 billion last year to NOK 10 billion now. It is the main organisation of the trade and service industries that has done so. I hope that the Council of State's response does not indicate that he has not come to realize that this development is frightening and is going in exactly the direction that some of us – among other things. I've been trying to point out all these years. Since the Council of State addresses questions in relation to the Central Bureau of Statistics, my follow-up questions about the Council of State seem to be unproblematic that a research director does something quite different than research, but gets right into a political minefield and tells me that it is really in favour of Norway and the Norwegian economy that there is this trade leakage, which, however, is not as much uncertainty as the Council of State tried to give the impression of now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1078	It's true, as Hernæs points out, questions about border trade have actually been a repetition here in Stortinget. In the two years I've been a finance minister, I've been here on the pulpit quite often to answer not only questions from Heresy, but also questions from other big business representatives. It is quite understandable that border trade is involved, especially those who live in such a way that they see the problems that border trade can bring to business in border areas. I didn't mean to say that the numbers here are now presenting are wrong. I really don't have a sure sense of whether the number 10 billion is too high or too low. But I hope that the study that the Ministry of Finance has now started, and that we get a response in the current year, will provide a better answer to that, because there have been many cracking numbers out and gone. The reference to the Central Bureau of Statistics almost seemed to me to be a small insinuation that the Ministry of Finance agreed that there was a bit of border trade and trade leakage because we have a great deal of pressure in the economy. It was therefore important for me to conclude that the fees are set on a completely different basis from any such considerations. Whether the Cappel should have pronounced what he did, or not, I don't think it's wise for me to have any opinion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1087	Of course, I have full respect for the Council of State's assessment of what he wants to talk to the Statistical Central Bureau about. Let me say anyway that when we get such a powerful political angle, it must be allowed to express some wonder that the Council of State could not seem appropriate to take a small talk within its remit. I will nevertheless address another side of the matter, which is in a way more serious. The Council of State refers in its first response to damage caused by road traffic to health and the environment. The second thing I picked up was alcohol and tobacco, but that's especially what I want to do with fuel. Is it really the case that the Council of State considers it to be the harmful effects on society of the traffic on our roads, which is the most prominent, or will he now confirm that road traffic and what the lorry industry stands for is the very lifeblood in District Norway and is not at all responsible for any harmful conditions, but on the contrary is of great benefit to the country of origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1097	The first main question in the oral question procedure earlier today was, in fact, the fuel tax. I'm not sure that Herenæs had the opportunity to follow it, but there I said a lot about fees and what policy assessments are being used when determining the level of charges. A starting point for which there has been a relatively broad consensus here in Stortinget is that fuel charges should be set at a level that covers the cost to society of road traffic. There has been some disagreement as to whether the charges are now appropriate high — whether they are too high or too low in relation to such a target. Here I showed earlier today, and I can do it again now, to a report that the Transport Economic Institute has produced, which will be available one of the very first days. There you'll see if the fees are at the right level or level. I agree, as I said earlier today, that there may be a conflict between the desire to let the polluter pay, let road traffic pay what society gets from expenditure on road traffic, and among other things. regional and economic considerations. It is a theme that we are now discussing in a dialogue with, among other things. In the future, Norway’s Lastebileier-Federal against the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1109	I would like to ask a question to the Minister of Defence: ‘The media show that a higher officer of the Defence Over Commandment meets in a Muslim mosque during Friday prayer to recruit defence personnel. Does the Council of State consider this to be the correct use of resources by the officers of the Defence Command, and does it agree with the Government's objective of more staff with a migrant background in the Defence; does the Council of State agree with this approach?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1118	For the period 1998-2001, the government has developed an action plan to increase the recruitment of people with a migrant background into the state sector. The Ministry of Defence has followed it up by publishing its own action plan for departments under the Ministry. The action plan outlines a number of measures to increase the recruitment of people with a migrant background to the Defence. An important prerequisite for increased recruitment is to make the defence better known in the immigrant communities, so that you can see what opportunities the defence can offer both those who want military education and those who want a civil career path in the Defense. It is therefore necessary to have good communication with the immigrant communities, so that we can work together to find out how best to provide good and factual information on the defence. The press release to which I assume the representative Width is aiming was a contact-creating visit from the Defence Commandant as part of this work. I find this quite natural because the Defence Command has been commissioned by the Ministry to follow up the action plan. In his question, the representative Width has chosen a formulation on the purpose of the visit that does not reflect the defence’s recruitment of personnel. Of course, we should not enlist staff under the Friday prayer, but we want to find a suitable forum for informing about the defence and the possibilities that the defense can offer, as I have just had. I see that the representative of the newspaper Width on January 31st this year disqualifies Muslims who are in charge of our defence and think they represent a security risk. Without prejudice to the fact that the representative is quoted correctly, I would say that it is outrageous to cast a suspicious shadow on the Muslims as a group in this way, and not least it is hurtful to our officers, civil servants and men with migrant backgrounds. For my part, I find no reason to doubt their loyalty, and assume, of course, that everyone added to the Defense is sufficiently secure in relation to their duties. Of course, this also applies to people with a migrant background. The fact that the security clearance of individuals may be problematic because it is difficult to verify their personal data 10 years back in time is, of course, no general security risk and is independent of religious or ethnic ties. This is also the view of the Security Staff. In this context, it should also be recalled that all Norwegian male citizens have the right and the obligation to exercise protection. It is also the law that you have the right to refuse military service for religious reasons, no matter what religion you practice. This is and will become an individual matter, and I expect those who either serve the duty of protection or choose a professional career in Defence have clarified their relationship in this area. Finally, I would like to stress that the Ministry will not change the objective of a greater proportion of people with a migrant background in the Defence. It is important and enriching for the Defence that we are also in this field as society progresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1133	In principle, I am opposed to the project and initiative mentioned by the State Council, and I believe that it is at least unnecessary for the Defence Command – FO – to engage in this. The defence staff should, in my opinion, only be engaged on the basis of competence and competence, and nothing else. Should it not be possible for other defence organisations to take care of this, for example. the recruitment and media centre, which is just about to deal with such things, and do not allow the higher officers to run around in such a way as to say. Muslim mosques to recruit defence personnel? This confirms what has been said, at least from the undersigned, several times, that FO is too heavy. I have repeatedly called for the initiative of the FO itself to solve this. And then I have to ask the Council of State, does she agree with me that FO is too heavy, and what will she possibly do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1142	I record that the representative Width disagrees in principle, and of course I cannot do anything about that. When it comes to how the defence follows the objectives it is imposed by the ministry, in this case the action plan for immigrants, I do not think it is a matter for the Council of State. I expect that they dispose of their personnel in order to achieve the objectives set, based on an appropriateness. With regard to the question of the top management of the defence, I can only refer here to a press conference I'm going to have at noon. 14 today, where the representative Width will get a lot of answers to that very question he is asking, and I hope he understands that I can't give exactly those answers here in the pulpit right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1151	I have to say I'm surprised at the answer, because I can't really understand that the Council of State shouldn't be able to get more involved in FO's tasks. That's exactly the top body we have in the defense. Moreover, I must say that on FO's visit to the Muslim mosque during Friday prayer, to which reference is still made, the imam stated that Muslims cannot fight Muslims. As far as I know, this is not quite right, but it indicates to me that Muslims in the Defence themselves will set the agenda for participation. Now that we know that Norwegian soldiers will in the future be engaged in foreign operations in UN and NATO missions, I am mildly said to be very concerned. Where will loyalty lie? Isn't the Council of State also concerned about this? Similarly, the Defence Security Loss, as mentioned by the Council of State, refers to the recruitment of personnel from some immigrant groups to officers and civil servants as a problem. Do the councils share these concerns?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1160	I maintain that as the Council of State, I will not care about what individuals in the Defence Command will spend their time on. I have taken greater action in relation to the Defence Command line than that. As regards how to deal with a safety risk, it is based on individual assessments of the safety service. I assume this is done regardless of the background of the person who wants to enter the defence, either in a military or in a civil position. That's why I don't think there's a question that requires more depression than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1170	This question, from the representative of Toril Haaland Horpestad, is raised by the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1173	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘The list of police coverage per year. 1 000 inhabitants show that two of the three police districts of Rogaland County, Rogaland Police District and Haugesund Police District, are among the 10 lowest-manned districts. [[Sandnes]] Sandnes and Haugesund have clear urban problems. Haugesund has a major drug problem, and Sandnes is also struggling with MC crime. Will the Council of State take this into account in the subsequent distribution of new police posts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1182	The distribution of positions to police districts is mainly calculated on the basis of population, crime and housing density. Following a mission from Stortinget, the Ministry of Justice has drawn up a police crew plan towards 2005. This will be submitted to the Stortinget in connection with a major police report for the autumn. One here will review the overall resources and response of the police in order to ensure a proper distribution of resources between the districts. The relatively large hills of the Police College in recent years have led to a clear improvement in the supply of trained police officers throughout the country. During the 1990s, the number of persons added to the establishment has increased by about 10 %. 33 pst. The revised 1999 national budget established 275 posts which were offered to pre-educated high school police students. Of these positions, the police districts of Rogaland and Haugesund each received five official positions. I am aware of the situation both in Sandnes and in Haugesund. For this reason, both police districts have been and will be provided with additional funds in addition to ordinary budgetary resources to combat, inter alia, the use of drugs. street violence and MC crime. Furthermore, talks have been started between the Rogaland police officers and Stavanger to look at the opportunities for cooperation to improve resource use, both in operational and administrative areas. That said, it must be emphasised that there is not always a clear link between resources and achievement. Good crime analysis and targeted investigation and prosecution work are equally important. St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000 estimates the need for the creation of about 280 new positions for newly trained police students in 2000. The government will return to the need for funding for new posts in the context of the revised national budget. The positions will be allocated to those areas where the need is greater. Here, both Rogaland and Haugesund will be current districts. Drug problems and MC crime are among the factors taken into account in allocating resources to police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1197	I just want to express my satisfaction at the answer, which was a clearer answer than what I thought was possible for the Minister of Justice to give at the moment. The Minister of Justice says that these police districts have been and will be allocated additional funds. He is clearly aware of the special problems that exist in medium-sized cities, especially in a city like Sandnes, which is also close to a big city, and the problem of some districts falling behind in police coverage in relation to the population, among others. due to rapid population growth, as has been the case in Sandnes in particular. So I hope and believe and am convinced that the Minister of Justice will take this issue seriously. When, after the revised national budget, new funds come to more police posts to secure jobs for all the students who attend the Police College, I am convinced that the Minister of Justice will take this argument into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1206	I do not need to comment on the posts of the representative, but I need to add something: during my travels around the police districts, I have been among others. in Rogaland, and I've been pretty thoroughly introduced to the MC crime. I have later had contact with officials from the area, among others. people who have had this close to the body – to say it that way. And I'm not minimizing either the MC crime or the drug problems that have been addressed; it's self-esteem in one case. As far as Haugesund is concerned, I have only been there for a short visit to thank you for the rescue work following the “Sleipner” accident. But they'll also get a visit from me, because it's my goal to get around the police districts and even get the insight that's necessary to see how the shoe prints, and to follow up what the poaching committee has asked me to do, to find out where the bottlenecks can be in the different districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1216	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Transport who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1219	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Many foreign semi-trailers and combinations of vehicles are travelling on Norwegian roads without taking into account the requirements of Norwegian truck drivers in terms of, for example, tyres, chains, overall technical condition, driving and rest periods and experience in driving on Norwegian winter roads. Does the Council see this problem, and what will he do with foreign drivers who are relatively often involved in serious accidents because of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1228	The national road system performs between 400000 and 500000 inspections on heavy-duty vehicles each year, of which approximately. 10 pst. of the vehicles are non-residents. In addition, police checks are being carried out. Today, the state Road Service does not have statistics to suggest that foreign drivers are more involved in serious accidents than Norwegian drivers. However, there is reason to believe that they are over-represented in creating traffic problems, for example, by more often getting stuck due to insufficient tyre equipment or lack of chains. As of 2000, changes in accident registration could give us more detailed answers as regards the involvement of foreign drivers in accidents in general. Virtually all heavy duty vehicles on Norwegian roads are subject to driving and rest periods, either through EEA legislation or through the European Agreement on driving and rest periods. These rules are almost identical. In general, it can be said that Norwegian drivers are not significantly more attractive than foreign drivers to comply with the provisions. All heavy-duty vehicles from countries within the EEA territory are subject to mandatory periodical verification of their technical status. Therefore, the difference in the technical standard of these vehicles shall be small. In the case of vehicles from Eastern Europe, the technical state appears to have improved substantially over the last three to four years. However, state studies show that in general, non-resident vehicle combinations have slightly more errors than Norwegian ones. All drivers in Norway are subject to vehicle use regulations, including: requirements for tyre equipment. In December 1998, a tightening of control practices was carried out with regard to tyre equipment specifically for heavy-duty vehicles. Among other things, the obligation to carry the chain was further clarified in order to further clarify the driver’s responsibilities to ensure that the vehicle is adequately gripped. Information material was also prepared for use by foreign drivers. However, in the case of tyres in general, it has been found in the control context that vehicles from Eastern Europe are still worse equipped than vehicles from most other countries. At the traffic station on Svinesund, it is regularly imposed on drivers to chain before further driving is permitted. In my view, therefore, the most important measure in the future will be to ensure that foreigners carry and use chains, so that they less hinder the availability of other traffic and so that they do not increase the accident risk of their own and other road users. In its roadside control activities, the State Road Service will actively contribute to the improvement of compliance with this legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1245	In the VG of 25 January this year we can read about ‘Death traps on summer tyres. Foreign semi-trailers travel around soapy Norwegian winter roads without chain and with worn-out summer tyres. in More and Romesdal. [[NLF]] Only on European road 136 between Dombås and Ålesund have rescuers assisted in the last week almost 10 foreign semi-trailers who have landed in the ditch or got stuck.’ Does the Council of State not see the seriousness of these claims? What will he do to further reduce this number of foreign vehicle trains – and especially those from Eastern Europe – involved to a greater or lesser extent?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1260	The Council of State sees the problem to the greatest extent, and sees the seriousness of the question raised by the representative. That's why I so strongly underlined at the end of my post the following: ‘However, in the case of tyres in general, it has been demonstrated in the control context that vehicles from Eastern Europe are still worse equipped than vehicles from most other countries. At the traffic station on Svinesund, it is regularly imposed on drivers to chain before further driving is permitted.’ In my view, therefore, the most important measure in the future will be to ensure that foreigners carry and use chains, so that accidents are also avoided and serious barriers to other traffic are avoided, and that we increase the safety of our own and other road users and reduce the risk of accidents. This will be addressed by the State Road Administration — increasing control activities on the road and actively contributing to compliance with the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1270	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Each year we have approx. 300000 border crossings to Norway by car combinations of larger or smaller sizes, and I thank the Council of State for intensifying the work on controls. But it will cost a lot, and it will require a large crew. Is the Council of State able to get proper control of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1277	Governments won't do it without Storting's help. It means, in other words, that I, like others, depend on the appropriations given. However, this will be given priority in the same way as other areas relating to road safety. Traffic safety will be at the bottom of the national transport plan, which is presented in a few months, and that means that this is what the representative is asking questions about today, especially when the transport plan is presented. In other words, I can confirm that it will be given high – we will call it the highest – priority in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1286	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Unorganised truck owners have recently paralysed important transport routes around Oslo through illegal actions. Many had problems getting to work, and supplies were stopped. The blockades disrupted the street order and necessary traffic. Does the Council of State believe that police action is acceptable by not trying to break up, fine or prosecute the street order activists, as we have seen in less demonstrations in the past?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1295	It is not correct that the police have not fined the actionists who took part in the truck operation. Two of the actions in Oslo were notified to the police in advance, in line with the provisions of the police law. The chief of police did not ban these two actions, nor did she impose any conditions on the implementation of the actions. One of the actions was not notified to the police in advance, and several of the participants in this action were fined. The police officer must decide, on his own initiative, whether a notified action should be prohibited or whether conditions should be laid down for its implementation. As I said in the Questionnaire last week, in response to questions from the representative Kenneth Svendsen: The police chief in Oslo so that demonstrations could be accepted to a certain point, given that they had been notified. From a certain point on, she believed that the opinion had been seen and heard, and she then gave a clear message that enough was enough. The police must make a continuous assessment of the forms of action and the possible adverse effects of the action. Police may prohibit action if there are grounds for fear that they may cause serious disturbance to public order or legitimate movement. Alternatively, the police may lay down conditions for the implementation of the action in order to take account of public order and legitimate movement. In addition, the police may stop or dissolve demonstrations and actions if they are conducted contrary to the prohibition or the conditions laid down. I trust that the police are able to assess and handle these matters in a reasonable and reasonable manner. The Ministry of Justice also sent a circular to the police officers of the country last week to refer to the considerations to be taken into account in the application of Section 11 of the Police Act and to the questions raised by the representative. If the action is carried out despite a ban by the police, or contrary to certain conditions, the activists may be held liable for their actions under criminal law. However, these are issues that are covered by the prosecution authorities and that I do not find it appropriate to go into more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1306	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that, in retrospect, there were eight pieces that were fined during the first action, but the question is whether it is sufficient in relation to the fact that the traffic was actually around Oslo. The Council of State said in its reply to me that the police chief in Oslo must assess on an independent basis how they should react. And that's exactly what's the point of my question, for Professor Johs. Andenæs has stated that this is a form of attachment to people who violate the criminal law's prohibition of coercion against others by preventing people from driving on the roads. I also have a question about the consequences of such a commitment for subsequent actions and demonstrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1317	I find out that when, after the last reported demonstration, Oslo's police chief, I think Monday over a week ago, said that enough was enough, it was taken note of and respected. I also note that the police officer in Halden County felt that the actions that were there were illegal, and I also find that they ended the day after. I would also like to stress that in writing where the department has referred to the police law section 11, we have clearly said about any new truck operations that actions that block main carriageways, important entryways and terminals must not be assumed to be acceptable, and that it is assumed that it will also react to this. I therefore feel that there is a limit, but I trust that the police will always handle that limit. I have also found that in recent years Oslo Police Master has exercised greater liberality and liberality in demonstrations in general than may have been usual in the past, and I take note of such a practice. I feel that it's keeping a line, as the policeman himself has responded in several public contexts. Finally, I would like to comment that in the context of a conversation between Secretary of State Solbakken and Andenæs, there was also a consensus that borders had to be set, and the department has found that the police have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1326	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In his reply, the Minister stated that he noted and took note of what the police officer in Oslo and Halden had said and done. But my question is, what is the Minister of Justice's opinion and attitude on the more fundamental aspects, including: in the case of non-discrimination, but also in the case of the principle of first action and later flattening?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1333	It is such that, in extreme cases, a Minister of Justice can instruct police districts. But it is not necessary to do so as long as it is perceived that the police districts manage discretion in a proper and good way. That's the rule. It's not right to get flat. Two legitimate demonstrations were accepted, but they reacted to one unlawfully, and said after this had been of an extent that the police perceived as unacceptable, that enough was enough. It's an unusually clear message. It is such that the police have to exercise discretion in every case. This applies to the police as to everyone else that they follow the opinions that follow in the wake of the cold water. I think at the time it was said that enough was enough, that it was an adequate response. And of course, I have been in agreement with the circular sent out by the Ministry of Justice, where we have reviewed Section 11 of the Police Act and what may be the situation in the case of new truck operations. I don't think anyone should be in doubt about it. The message that has been sent is that enough is enough. It cannot be expected that extensive actions will be allowed to block highways, main carriageways, terminals, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1352	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1363	This question falls away. Question 14 will be answered to Question 30.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1371	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The mountain has recently had to say no to cruise approaches due to the restrictions on altitude at the Askøy Bridge. For Bergen as cruise port, this is an unacceptable situation, and reference is made to the clear assumptions of the Stortinget in the construction of the Ascow bridge as an alternative route of navigation, a premise that a later set-up did not take into account. Will the Council of State, on this basis, shortly present a case which will allow the use of Skælgengersundet as an alternative route of navigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1380	The representative, Terje Knudsen, raises questions about whether I would like to present a case in which Schielangenersundet can be established as an alternative sailing route to Bergen. Let me start by saying that the establishment of alternative routes to Bergen was originally introduced as a prerequisite for the construction of the Ashøy Bridge. When the main plan for the Ashøy Bridge was approved by the Road Directorate on September 24, 1986, there was a solution with a bridge height of 62 m and an alternative route through Herdlaflaket and Det Naue. The approval of the Ministry of Fisheries, which was necessary for crossing the Byfjord, was granted on 12 January 1990. Of the terms and conditions that were imposed, among others: that alternative sailing across the Herdlaflaket should be completed and ready for use before the work of restricting or limiting movement in Byfjorden was started. In the context of the work of the re-sealing regulatory plan, a number of teams called for comprehensive impact assessments of the action, including: in the light of the interests of nature protection linked to the site. Following extensive correspondence between the Road Office, the County Council, the Coastal Directorate, the port authorities and meetings of a previously appointed contact committee, the Ministry of the Environment decided in 1992 that impact assessments should be carried out. This was done, and in the light of the investigation, the Ministry of the Environment concluded that the project would have a significant negative environmental impact. The Ministry of the Environment therefore proposed that the case be referred back to Stortinget, concluding that the exploration of the shipping link should not be carried out. The Ministry of Transport proposed this in the 1995 State Budget, and the Stortinget agreed. On the initiative of, inter alia: The municipality of Bergen has assisted the Statens vägvesen Hordaland to assess a new sailing route to Bergen via Skelejangersundet and Det Naue. A pilot project has also been launched in cooperation with local authorities to address current issues, including the need for alternative routes. Since the 1994 Stortingen concluded that the establishment of the Herdlaflake route would not be carried out, the matter was last harvested, when it was re-updated, transferred from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Fisheries, which is responsible for such measures. The establishment of an alternative route will therefore need to be prioritised and treated in an ordinary manner by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1397	I perceive the Council of State's response as if the matter has not been covered, and that it will now be assessed in the Ministry of Fisheries. And if that's true, I'm satisfied with the answer. I still have to add that this case has been a ‘hot’ case in Bergen for many years. This is where the city's politicians and business interests stand together. And there is no reason to hide that these parties have been in Harmony about the fact that the sailing trail over Herdlaflaket was never completed. It is largely due to the fact that the original construction plan provided that the sailing path should be established before the bridge was built. The bridge and the sailing trail were one project, where the sailing trail had priority before the Ashøy bridge. I am therefore very pleased that you will now look at this matter again, and I hope that the Council of State can confirm what I got the impression instead, namely that the Ministry of Fisheries is now looking at the Schielangenersunden and the problem around it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1404	What I can confirm is that the matter has not been dealt with as it has been transferred to the department that is naturally responsible for this part of the public sector. In the case of the State Road Administration Hordaland, they have made a rough assessment of the new route to Bergen via Skelejangersundet and Det Nau both in terms of design and cost estimates, so that there has been a work on the case in recent years as well. But I can't stand here and now and confirm how another department will handle the matter further, and what the final result will be in the department concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1421	This question has to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 17 – the questioner is not present at the moment, and we move on to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1429	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The further training in radiation therapy is the only intra-corporate education that has not been formally transferred to the higher education system. Based on the decisions taken in the National Cancer Plan, the Norwegian network, commissioned by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, has been investigating training provision in radiography and radiation therapy. The study was completed in the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and delivered to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Will the State Council ensure that the recommendations in the report are implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1438	As mentioned in the question, the Norwegian Network Council was commissioned in early 1999 to investigate the future organisation of education services in radiography and radiotherapy. At the end of October last year, the study on radiographic and radiotherapy training was transferred from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research to the Ministry of Social and Health. In the investigation, four different models are presented: 1st today’s model of transmission of radiation therapy training to the higher education system2. a modular model for continuing training in radiotherapy3. two separate three-year higher education courses in diagnostics and therapy4. two specialisations in a common training course in radiography The investigation concludes by proposing that today’s three-year basic radiography training should be maintained as it is today. The current system of intra-corporate one-year further training in radiation therapy is proposed as replaced by a modular model of further training in radiation therapy and diagnostic radiography at universities. All the hearing bodies support the model of the current three-year training of radiographs. Most hearing bodies also support the transfer of continuing training to the higher education system as a mission instruction. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has met with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research to discuss and clarify how further training in radiation therapy may be transferred to the higher education system, as well as models of further education in the field of diagnostics. The current issues currently under discussion are how to organise and finance education and the recruitment situation in the case of radiotherapy therapists. In the spring I will go through the various questions in connection with the implementation of any further training in radiation therapy at the universities. In order to ensure professional competence, some aspects have to be clarified before the training can be started. In relation to the cancer plan, I am very concerned about improving the recruitment of radiation therapists. I would therefore like to work for a swift implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1462	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer, which I find very positive. Further training in radiation therapy is defined in the study as specialist training. The investigation suggests different funding models for this. The training offer, or the study, may be financed either through the Ministry of Church, Education and Research or by agreement with the hospital owner as contracting entity. Since there is a continuing need for continuing training in radiography and radiotherapy, such a study offer should be financed entirely from the budgets of the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The Ministry of Education will then be responsible for educating the personnel of society at all times. My question No. 2 is: Does the Minister of Health agree with this? – He has responded to this, but in case I have a new follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1471	Yes, then the Council of State Dagfinn Høybråten confirms what he has said earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1474	I must at least confirm that we are discussing both the funding models that the representative of Alvheim now has to deal with. What I was referring to in my answer was that most hearing bodies support the model of mission instruction. I have not taken a final position on this yet, there are still some questions relating to the financing that need to be clarified, but it will not prevent a rapid implementation, as I announced in my main response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1479	I thank you again for the answer. There is currently a great shortage of radiographs and radiation therapists, and the transfer to the higher education system can contribute to increasing interest in the study. It is important for the trainees that the study they are conducting provides academic weights of recognition, as this qualifies for admission to higher education at university and university level. The Minister of Health has again answered my second question of follow-up, namely that a rapid implementation is needed, and the Minister of Health does not need to be confirmed again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1488	The President then considers that all the necessary answers have been given. We then go back to question 17, from the representative of Aud Gaundal to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1496	I thank you for your goodwill. I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘Meråker Sanitätsforenings Kurbad and Meråker secondary school have a joint project for rehabilitation. The aim is to take action to ensure that as much as possible an individual follow-up plan is able to participate/come back to work/training as soon as possible. The project is fully in line with the intentions of the rehabilitation message, because the scheme is treatment, motivation, activation and education. Will the Council of State be in favour of the application for State aid and, where appropriate, specifically include it in the revised national budget?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1507	Meråker Sanitätsforenings Kurbad and Meråker Secondary School applied in 1999 for 3.1 million. kr to a project as discussed in the question by Mr Gaundal. The project was presented to the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health at its meeting on 3 November last year. For example, the Ministry gave the following services: expression that the project seemed to be of interest but that the amount requested was too high, given the funds allocated to experimental activities in the field of rehabilitation. The meeting showed that a renewed application would be considered seriously, but that the outcome of such an assessment was not given. In the light of the interest of rehabilitation shown in the cold water of St. gemeld. No 21 for 1998-99, Responsibility and Meistering, and its treatment by the Storting, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has received many applications for project support in this area. In order to receive support, projects must be in priority areas, they must have a professionally sound organisation and must have a sound cost framework. Meråker Sanitätsforenings Kurbad and Meråker High School have maintained the original application amount in their renewed application for project funding. When assessing the application, the Ministry will see it within an overall assessment of the rehabilitation project to be supported on the basis of the criteria I have outlined here. A new response to Meråker Sanitätsforenings Kurbad and Meråker secondary school could be expected in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1512	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As was said both in my question and from the Council of State, this project, which is referred to here, aims to take action at an early stage in a social security process. And it's raised beyond any doubt that it's important. Likewise we said when we dealt with St. reported. No 21) that it would be right for users to have the most comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation provision possible, and not least for training institutions to face a challenge to further develop their services. When this project that we're talking about here is so important, it's because it's an innovation – at least in the Nord-Trøndelag – that Meråker secondary school comes in with its competence. There is no doubt about the competence of the school, it educates good sportsmen today. My question is therefore: will it be possible for the department to distort the funds from a rehabilitation that we may not think is working today, to an innovation that we are convinced will work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1519	The treatment of the wholesale notification of rehabilitation is, of course, a key element in the rehabilitating policy with a view to improving the overall level of provision of the individual, and an even stronger professional anchoring and quality of what is offered. The whole follow-up to the Communication will focus on the kind of policy rotation to which it refers. I point out that the Department has considered this project to be interesting, but I cannot at this point conclude the application procedure, so what consequences it will have for the specific application is too early to clarify here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1526	I thank you again for the answer. An innovation in rehabilitation will also – I think – involve a number of other groups who may be interested in getting good results from rehabilitation. And my question is, how will the Ministry assess the role of insurance companies in being involved in the exercise and in a way being a little innovative in such projects? Because there is no doubt that even in the case of Meråker, insurance companies have been positive that such projects start.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1531	One of the ideas behind the rehabilitation policy is that actors with different roles should cooperate and interact on a comprehensive and coordinated offer for the individual. And for my part, I welcome the fact that both insurance companies and others who have clear interests in contributing to good offers are given the opportunity to do so within the framework of the guidelines and plans drawn up by public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1539	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Power patients do not receive recommended treatment because the new cytotoxic drugs are so expensive that they are difficult to cover within the hospital budgets if no additional funds are added. The size of the population has called for better reimbursement arrangements since 1995. Cancer experts are critical of the new proposal to integrate the drugs into the ISF [[intervention-driven financing]] Why will the Council of State not allow the prescription scheme to cover out-of-clinical cancer medication?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1548	I would like to begin by pointing out that the issue of financial instruments for cancer medicine was raised in the Questionnaire on 3 November 1999. In my reply at the time, I said that a better financing system should be in place as early as possible in 2000. This is what I'm standing by. This matter concerns the use of cell poison in cancer treatment. The cost of treatment varies depending on the drug used. For some cancers, it is essential for the outcome that the most expensive drugs are available and used. However, these drugs can be very expensive. The reimbursement of input-driven funding does not differ according to whether a reasonable or expensive drug is used. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has therefore worked with the trade unions to find a solution to this problem within the input-driven funding. The solution is in short that the reimbursement will depend more on the type of treatment given. In these days, hospitals are preparing the registration basis for a new solution. There is such a solution that I am concerned about starting as early as possible this year. However, the funding of expensive cancer drugs is also part of a general issue, namely how to organise funding schemes for what is called high-cost medicine in hospitals. This issue has specifically been addressed by regional hospitals, and it will be part of the announced review I will come to Stortinget with in the form of a proposition as early as next month. With effect from 1 January 2000 input-driven financing has been adjusted only for the conditions directly submitted to the Stortinget in St.prp. No 1 for 1999-2000. Among other things, as regards the requirements for good predictability and simplicity of the scheme, I believe it is right to make systemic changes collectively. With regard to the specific questions raised by the representative of Höegh regarding the inclusion of cancer medicines in the prescription system, I would like to refer to what I said in the Questionnaire on 3 November 1999. In my opinion, it could weaken the hospital's overall responsibility for resource use if the state directly finances some of the inputs in the hospital treatment facility through the bladder prescription scheme. I would like to remind you that there are a whole range of medicines, implants and materials that are precious in hospital treatment. It is therefore necessary to find solutions within existing funding systems that capture this issue in a good way, without depriving hospitals of their management responsibility for prioritising resources. On this basis, I will present a concrete proposal for a solution to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1561	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It'll be interesting to see how the follow-up now becomes concrete. However, I would like to point out the special nature of the treatment of severe cancer in the hospitals. What's important about cancer medication is going into the hospital, whether it's at bedside or outpatients. However, most other major patient groups – whether diagnosis is heart/carrying, stomach ulcers, depression, or whatever it may be – get the most of their medication when they leave the hospital and get it covered by the bladder prescription system. And my commitment to this is in and of course not whether we cover these cancer drugs through the prescription scheme or within input-driven funding, my commitment is to ensure that seriously ill patients are given the treatment that professionals think they are entitled to. And then it becomes essential if the Council of State will not only change effort-driven funding, but if he can also confirm that it will be accompanied by funds that enable these new and expensive but sometimes necessary cancer drugs to be covered in effort-driven funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1568	Let me confirm that I share the view expressed by the representative, Høegh, that the aim here is not primarily the scheme and the design of the scheme, but that it works so that cancer patients are properly treated on the basis of a professional assessment. I therefore believe that it is possible to design such a mechanism in the area of effort-driven financing, and the proposal I would like to make to the Stortinget will answer the question that the representative Höegh is now asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1573	I thank you for the answer, and notice that the Council of State in and of itself did not respond to whether it will follow increased funds. But it will be absolutely vital that effort-driven funding can function according to the purpose that I understand we agree to achieve. In addition, cancer patients, as opposed to most other patient groups, will need to be involved in fighting for funds for their medical treatment from all the other areas covered by the hospital budgets. So the other groups can largely go out of the hospital after a hopefully short stay and then cover their further medication of the prescription. We can't do that with cancer patients, they have to go to the hospital every time they have to have these funds, and therefore they get into a different position. And there might be a basis for looking at whether you need to have a specially structured part of the funding for medical cancer treatment within the ISF, or whether you might have to choose the simplest system that we used to have, the blueprint system, which is simple and unbureaucratic and gives cancer patients the right to the medicines they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1580	It is precisely the point of proposing a solution that differs from the type of treatment for cancer patients, that intervention-driven funding should provide better solutions for the most expensive forms of treatment and medication than for those who require more reasonable inputs. And to the extent that it is possible to capture this in the ISF system – and I believe that it is – the very purpose of which the representative Høegh and I are fully in agreement could be achieved in such a model. But this gives Stortinget the opportunity to have an opinion about when the matter comes in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1588	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten: ‘The health surveillance of the Member States has now issued a recommendation on the reduction of the use of amalgam in dental care. Will the Council of State submit proposals setting a date for the end of the use of amalgam as dental filling material?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1597	The study ‘Use of dental restoration materials in Norway’ provides a broad approach to issues related to the use of amalgam in dental care. The State Health Authority itself draws three main conclusions from the investigation as a guide to its recommendations to the Ministry: With current scientifically verifiable methods, it has not been possible to prove a link between the use of amalgam in tooth fillings and health damage. Amalgam has some advantages, but many disadvantages. Dental data and consumption data show that amalgam is on the way out as dental restoration material. The health of the population has improved dramatically over the past 30 years, and the need for new fillings has fallen dramatically. However, the aim is to reduce the mercury exposure of the population and the environment. On this basis, amalgam separators are already required in dental offices. The laying of new amalgam fillings should now also be minimised. In its recommendation, the Health Authority outlined four alternative approaches to reducing the use of amalgam: 1. a natural phase-out of the use of amalgam as a result of field developments, without special measures2. professional recommendations that will reduce the use of amalgam3. set a date for the end of amalgam fillings4. prohibit amalgam and offer replacement to those who so wish; Of these, the Health Authority recommended option 2. This is a further development of current recommendations. It is designed according to a balance between what is claimed by opponents and trailers of the use of amalgam and what can be said with certainty by scientifically verifiable methods. The measure will serve as an additional incentive in relation to development, which shows that amalgam is on the way out as dental filling material. ==References== 1.5 million Northmen over 30 years of age have well-functioning amalgam fillings. I have chosen to follow the Health Authority's professional recommendation at this point, i.e. professional recommendations to reduce and phase out the use of amalgam without setting a specific date. A ban will not help those people who today believe their health problems are caused by amalgam. In my opinion, the most useful way to go further is to spend more resources on quality assurance of new and better dental restoration materials. At the same time, I would like to support research and experimental treatment that seeks new knowledge about the potential adverse effects of the use of amalgam and other filling materials. As one of the few countries in the world since 1994, Norway has had an investigation offer for people with side effects related to dental materials. In the current year's budget, I have chosen to increase the allocation to the Adverse Reactions Group in Bergen, so that clinical investigation activities are expanded and tried and tested treatment is started. The Adverse Reaction Task Force is now working with an investigator for the investigation of patients with adverse reactions to oral biomaterials. In addition, I have chosen to grant money to the Nordic Institute of Odontological Materials Testing (NIOM) for participation in international standardisation work. NIOM has a central role as a consultant to Nordic health authorities through the testing of materials and participation in standardisation and research activities on dental treatment materials. I have also asked the Health Authority to develop a method to monitor the market and use of dental materials.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1635	I thank the Council of State for the answer, where I also received an answer to what I had been going to ask as my question number two, and who went on a treatment offer to those who think they have side effects of the amalgam fillings. That's why I'm going to go to my last supplementary question. Connected Tenner and Health want a ban on the use of amalgam. Studies show a relatively high degree of subjective improvement following the replacement of amalgam. Both health and the environment will benefit from a ban. Some scientific studies have shown that mercury has adverse effects on the foetus and children, including: through breast milk? And will the Council of State in case an investigation into this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1642	The President must note that today the Council of State is a horsehead in front of several representatives for questioning and answering.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1645	Yeah, I guess that's part of the job. Let me answer this last supplementary question that we have now had a very comprehensive and thorough investigation of these questions through the report to which we both referred, and on the basis of the Health Authority's professional recommendations, we have provided guidance for the Health Authority in its follow-up. That doesn't mean that all the truth is clear, and there's no room for further investigation, not least I think it's important to research. I have also taken the initiative of a consensus conference with international researchers in the field to be held in May of this year, where the aim is to reach a consensus on future research tasks in this field in the light of the knowledge that is now available. That is the way I believe the matter can best be followed up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1657	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: «Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation In a counsellor on Injury Compensation has said that compensation is to be paid by gross negligence». Many patients, and especially women, struggle to be believed when they claim that something is wrong or has gone wrong after treatment. When the patient is subsequently proved to be correct, it can be defined as gross negligence on the part of the health care system and thus as a basis for substitution?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1666	Norwegian Patient injury insurance covers claims for damages caused by public somatic hospitals and their outpatient clinics. In addition, the rules cover the municipal medical services and the municipal medical services, as well as public psychiatric hospitals and their outpatient clinics. Much of the purpose of Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation and the rules on which it is based are among others: removing the search light from concerns about the guilt or negligence of health professionals. Compensation in accordance with the rules on Norwegian Patient Compensation is granted for physical damage caused by examination, diagnosis, treatment and the like but with some exceptions. It is given, inter alia: do not compensate when the risk is known, nor when the treatment given is adequate. It is the treatment and risk associated with it, which is essentially crucial. Furthermore, there is a requirement that an injury has occurred and that there is a causal link between the treatment and the damage. Under Norwegian law, it is a condition for compensation that the damage has caused an economic loss to the patient, for example: in the form of labour income lost, and that loss shall cover the compensation initially. In the event of permanent medical damage above a certain level, men’s compensation may also be provided, i.e. compensation for reduced life expectancy. It's also right, as the representative Gaundal mentions in his question, that there can also be upliftment, i.e. compensation not linked to financial loss or medical but. Such compensation is paid only if there is gross negligence and there is an amount limit of NOK 20 000. This rule of upkeep applies only to the somatic hospitals, not to the municipal medical services or to the psychiatry. The question of whether the patient should receive so-called reparation shall not be settled in the Secretariat of the Norwegian Patient Compensation Service. Treatment of such claims is always the subject of the Patient Injury Compensation Study. In 1998, six claims for upliftment were filed and three were met. In 1999, the number was ten, three of which were supported. I perceive the question so that the representative Gaundal wants answers as to whether it can be characterised as grossly negligent, and thus provide the basis for upliftment, that a doctor does not diagnose correctly, does not diagnose at all, mistrusts his patient, or does not detect any side effects or damage that the patient is doing. There is no simple formula in such cases that can tell which actions or omissions are grossly negligent, and which are not. Questions of serious negligence need to be considered specifically in each case. What is clear is that gross negligence requires a qualified glancing behaviour from the doctor, while the mildest form of guilt, simple negligence, requires only that the doctor can be loaded to a small extent. As mentioned above, the compensation only applies to the somatic hospitals and not to the municipal medical services. Nor has the scheme been proposed to be continued in a new patient injury law. However, questions relating to serious misconduct and compensation may be brought before the courts for assessment. The compensation will then be assessed according to the Damage Compensation Act § 3-5 on compensation – uplifting – for damage of a non-economic nature. However, the size will have the opportunity to address the various aspects of these issues in relation to the consideration of proposals for a new law on patient damages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1687	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. In a study that is now published in the Norwegian Medical Association’s Journal, doctors who are good listeners show satisfaction in patients and the best results. To feel that one is thought to be heard and understood when one is with the doctor is one of the most important things for all patients. However, the study shows that there is no obvious consequence. Some patients indicated that they were frustrated, that they felt that they did not reach out with the message, and that the doctor did not understand what the problem was. Of course, it can be explained that communication is difficult because it is about two people in a power imbalance; one is sick and vulnerable; the other is completely protected and strictly not giving anything of itself. Not being believed, getting rude comments as well as perhaps undergoing painful treatment that later turns out to have been mistreatment, is not a good situation for a patient. If this is not gross negligence, in what way can the health care system be obliged to complain to the patient? Is it really the case that upliftment must be in the form of money? What about those who have not lost their income?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1696	I have explained the law as it is to be understood today, and I have also explained the possibilities of looking at it as the Stortinget has in its hands in connection with the treatment of the Patient Compensation Act. But in addition to legal issues, I am very concerned that healthcare is getting even better in their meeting with the individual patient. I've noticed the study in the Medical Association's journal, and it agrees with the user studies that have been done for the rest, and that shows that the patients most in demand, it's to be seen, it's to be met, it's to be respected. And there are absolutely key questions in the big news about health care values that the government put forward before Christmas, and which I hope will create good processes both in this room and among health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1703	I fully agree with the Council of State's assessment that we have a legal part. But then it's the moral part, which may be the biggest challenge, if we're going to follow up what this study is now showing, that's what's published in the Medical Association's journal, that's how we're going to meet the group that might see itself as the weakest: those who haven't lost their income, they might be wrong. Some patients who have good income — they may have good jobs — may feel that they are being taken more seriously than those who do not have income. And that's the moral part I think we have to try to bet a little bit more on. I'm not interested in blaming the health service, and those who work in the health service should be responsible in every case, but it's an important starting point that we don't just look at the legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1708	I fully agree with Mr Gaundal that the question, in addition to having a legal side, also has a moral and a mental side. And I don't think these issues in general are solved by jus. First of all, they need to be solved through active efforts to develop both attitudes and listening skills where health services meet individuals. And there are processes that, through this big message that I pointed out, we hope to strengthen, so that people who are in vulnerable situations and who are facing healthcare in an imbalance of power and position, will feel safer and more respected than what many can tell us today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1713	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1726	This question has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1733	I have to ask the following questions to the Council of State, Laila Bavøy: ‘According to VG 28 January 2000, Stadsbygs boss Halvor Stormoen has awarded millions of contracts to his close friend and former colleague’s newly started consulting firm. In view of this, will the Council of State carry out a full review and review of these matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1742	Statsbygg has signed contracts with Key Resources Consulting A/S. The Managing Director, who is also the holder of shares in this company, is a former colleague of State Building Director Halvor Stormoen. I have contacted Halvor Stormoen and have asked for a detailed explanation of the matter – both its actual and legal aspects. The case will now be assessed in the ministry in the usual way. However, I react in the way VG hangs out a manager in a look-up that insinuates camaraderie and unethical attitude. In any case, the Article of the VG is itself an overly thin basis for carrying out an investigation. However, I would like to add that Statsbygd's Director, Halvor Stormoen, is known in the trade unions to focus in particular on ethical issues, as has also been seen in recent articles in the daily press. In addition, Stormoen has quickly initiated and carried out the demanding task of reorganising Statsbyggen. I am well pleased with the way the reorganisation is carried out, and have confidence that he is continuing the conversion work with the force and commitment that has the characteristic of his work to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1755	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that the State Council here, as State Building is a management company, has overall responsibility to ensure that guidelines, whether tendered or contracted, are properly followed. When questions have been asked about such things, I am pleased that the Council of State – as she also confirms in her reply – has asked for clarification of these matters. This must benefit both Director Stormoen, the Council of State itself, and not least for the trust which is absolutely necessary for State Building and which they depend entirely on in the process of conversion State Building. We know that State Building has a record to point out – where one would not think they had the best expertise in the Kingdom in building projects, not least in terms of planning – not to keep the financial framework that has been provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1762	It is true that it is important that a statement be made on the matter, as it has made such large headlines in one of our biggest newspapers, and it is done. Both the department and Stormoen are also very concerned that this matter is resolved as soon as possible. With regard to the other thing that the representative Vidar Kleppe addresses, namely the way State Building organizes its operations, the big issue, the Rikshospitalet, and actually also some previous issues, has done that State Building now, a few days in this year, has been working on a new organisational model. It is now necessary to run large, comprehensive and complex projects in a completely different way, and the director of Statsbyggen has been an enormous driver for this transformation. We are pleased that the Stortinget has previously joined this reorganisation in State Building, which was absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1771	When you look at the role that State Building has had over the years, whether it's a delegation that travels to the United States to buy trees for the new National Hospital, for which State Building is responsible, or the use of resources and resources, it's important to get clarity about what we all have as a goal, that we show care, and that we have quality assurance for everything that State Building does. But I am pleased that the Council of State will make a statement on this. My natural follow-up question will be: Will the bodies of Stortinge be adequately informed of the investigations undertaken by the Council of State about the relationship that Stormoen has had with a former comrade – possibly a friend and so on – in relation to the contracts that VG wrote on 28 January 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1778	First, I have to be allowed to answer a little about these bear trees that the representative addresses. I can only say that this has been done in a good way. This concerns the responsibility for the aesthetic, functional and technical aspects of a construction works. Here, advisers have had to deal with and come to the conclusion that this could be appropriate, and that it was an important measure in the Rikshospitale. I can't get any closer to it, except that I want to say that there is a meeting where the Allergy Federation, Folkehelsa, the Rikshospitalet and Statsbygg together will sit down and evaluate the allergy risk and look at these bear trees – as they have said. As far as the last point is concerned, I clearly have the principle that personnel issues – and that is not the case, but on staff issues in general – should not be the subject of a discussion in this way in this Chamber. I promise that I will follow up this matter in the department in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1790	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture: ‘Many parts of the population who pay a licence to the NRK do not receive signals today so that they can see the NRK2 programmes. Although this part of the population does not have the opportunity to see NRK2’s programmes, they have to pay a full licence fee. In other words, they pay for a product they do not get. Will the Council of State take the initiative to reduce the licence fee for those who are unable to see NRK2, or to purchase satellite antennas or other equipment to see NRK2?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1799	As mentioned in my reply to the representative Bastisen on 19 January of this year, the extension of the NRK2 has taken place in accordance with Storting’s assumptions. The size has assumed that the NRK2 is primarily a satellite channel and has a certain additional coverage via ground transmitters. The coverage shall be as close as 80 pst. as far as possible. A full extension of NRK2 to give the channel as good coverage as NRK1 would be too expensive and require too large frequency resources. In addition, a full expansion of NRK2 ground transmitters would make the development of digital transmissions very difficult. The broadcasting fee is a charge levied on all those who have television sets. The license goes to the operation of the NRK. As long as the coverage of NRK2 is 80 p.m., as Stortinget assumed when the NRK got started the channel, I cannot see that there is a basis for a system of differentiated charges. Let me also note that the NRK2 has come as an addition to NRK’s previous radio and television services – without any increase in broadcasting fees for this reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1810	Let it be reasonably clear that it does not require further expansion of the transmission network to cover this. State Council Haga said that the licence fee went to the NRK in full. But it's the intelligent NRK that pays for the expansion of NRK2. Legally, of course, it's right what the minister said. But there is also a moral side to this matter, which puts the sense of justice to the test. Are you required by law to pay for something you don't get? As long as the NRK2 was a narrow TV channel, intended for particularly interested people, it might be possible to find an excuse for today's practice – even if I would not support it. However, in today’s situation, where popular programmes are taken from NRK1 and set up at NRK2 – e.g. the Monday film, as many, perhaps especially older, so far – the possibility of seeing these programmes is excluded from those who do not take in the NRK2. I would like to ask you, would you like to add a system where you can cover the cost of a satellite antenna over the license?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1819	I base the Storting's assumptions on broadcasting fees and licensing. But let me make it clear that I agree that the programme offer from a licence-funded public broadcaster like the NRK should be available to the whole country. However, we must note that the technical conditions do not allow the extension of NRK2 to cover more than 80 pst. by the country within an acceptable economic framework. But I think it's wise to look forward. The size has now opened up to digital television. The NRK states that they will give priority to areas with poor coverage of NRK2 today when developing digital television networks. The government is actively working on clarifying the technical solutions that will make it possible to move forward with digitisation, and in that work, of course, we attach considerable importance to ensuring that we are able to cover the whole country as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1826	I understand, of course, that the Minister bases the Storting's assumptions. But the minister also gave the impression that she thought it would be right that everyone got in this channel. Then it is probably also an obligation for a minister, if you find that it is right, to take the initiative to promote a case for the Storting where you can change the assumptions that were once made. You could, for example: a scheme in which people who did not receive NRK2 and had to buy parabolic antennas received depreciation on this facility over five years by e.g. the licence fee was halved. I also believe that this would not have a significant economic impact on the operation of the NRK. Then my question is whether the minister will take such an initiative to correct the obvious bias that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1831	My starting point is that in some way we will be able to solve the problems we have today that we do not have coverage for the whole country in the way we would like. If we go in the direction of a differentiated licence or other ways of meeting the problems we face today, I'm afraid we'll end up in a situation where we're helping to weaken the NRK's overall programme offer, and that we'll also end up in a situation where we'll get very complicated arrangements to manage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1841	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘As one of several music resorts in Hedmark, Eidskog Janitsjar estimates to cut down due to poor finances. This may mean that five places in the municipality of Eidskog can stand without corps music on 17 May. This is often a relatively small amount here, but it is absolutely crucial for the corps. Does the Council of State see this problem, and will the Council of State consider support measures so that our corps traditions can prevail?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1850	It is a clear goal of the Government to increase local cultural activity. I see the music organisations and the country's 1770 school and amateur corps with 70,000 members as important actors to achieve such a goal. It already contributes to the maintenance and development of these activities through different grant schemes. The grant of the Ministry of Culture’s budget to nationwide music organisations under the Norwegian Music Council, including the Norwegian Music Corps Federation, has increased by 21 p.m., from 10.4 million. SEK in 1999 to SEK 12.6 million. NOK 2000 In addition, the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research supports the study activities of the individual corps through Norwegian Musikkräd, about 15 million. kr. In addition, Norway’s Musikkkorps Association receives national operating grants from the Ministry of Children and Family according to given criteria for children’s and youth organisations. I would also like to remind you of the Government's proposal in St.meld. No 44 for 1997-98 on the establishment of a new system of grants for cultural activities for children and young people at local level, to which the Stortinget has joined. The overall objective of this grant scheme is to contribute to improved framework conditions for local teams and associations, including music villages. I am pleased that the scheme will be launched in connection with the revised national budget this year. Grants for the operation of the country's music resorts are not alone a state responsibility. We know that parents and other volunteers are doing an admirable job for the musicians. In addition, individual municipalities and counties themselves need to facilitate local cultural activities and actions for their own inhabitants, including the operation of local corps.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1861	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was an estimate of various grant schemes that corps can get from. In addition, the Council of State refers to the efforts of parents and other volunteers. Now, unfortunately, our proud corps traditions are gradually disappearing from the districts, despite the subsidy schemes mentioned by the Council of State. This does not indicate that the grants are too small and that more direct grants are needed, such as: Eidskog Janitsjarcorps can pass? And what will the Government's response in practice mean in crowns and ears to the individual corps and corps practitioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1868	I am deeply concerned with our proud corps traditions. We know what this means in the local environment. I am not able to say specifically what the new support scheme will mean in dollars and cents for the individual corps, but that it will mean an improvement, there can be no doubt about it. In addition, I would like to say that in order for us to do well to maintain a good local cultural offer, we need to see it in the context of the local economy and the possibilities that municipalities and county municipalities have to contribute actively in the cultural field as well. I look forward to working with the Progress Party to strengthen the efforts of the municipalities, so that we can open up cultural activities for even better living conditions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1877	I thank the Council once again for the answer. Consider the grants referred to by the Council of State in its first response, namely 10.4 million. NOK 15 million. NOK 25 million in total. And divide it by 70,000 members, we're down to approx. NOK 3 500 per year. operating in aid. This is no more than subsidising two-three tickets at the Norwegian Opera. For Eidskog Janitsjarcorps, the deficit for 1998-99 was 17 344 kroner – perhaps not so much money, but for a corps with no possibility for larger incomes and members and parents who are worn out and stated, this is a lot of money. Could the Council of State think of a change as a grant, from the so-called fine culture to the broad culture, i.e. to subsidise more corps rather than, for example: opera? This will be good district policy, which the Council of State Party boasts it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1888	I am concerned that we should ensure good framework conditions for the voluntary organisations. That's also the government's concern, and we'll work on it continuously. In relation to the distinction that was made between fine culture and other culture, I'm concerned that we have to be able to deal with ourselves in this country so that we have sufficient latitude in our cultural offerings. That's why I have problems putting one activity up against the other. For example: opera, I am convinced that a good and solid opera environment in Oslo will be important also for the district operas, which we are now developing. My starting point is that I don't want to put the different cultural expressions and activities up against each other. We're going to make the diversity of cultural life work, and then we're going to have to bet on all the expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1898	I have the following questions for the Minister of Culture: ‘In the selection of a thousand-year-old place in each State, it is claimed that the criteria for State grants have changed in the context of the State budget for 2000. This means, in this case, that the rules of the game are substantially changed in the middle of the process without the participants in the contest being informed. Can the Council of States confirm that the initial criteria of 1998 are still in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1907	The system of state-owned millennia was presented in St.prp. No 55 for 1997-98, About the marking of the thousandth anniversary of 2000-2005. One of the main aims of the thousands of years is to contribute to the creation of facilities, institutions, cultural environments, natural areas, etc. of high historical, cultural and environmental value is preserved and marked in a separate way. The county posts shall have a national cultural and environmental significance that is indicative of the individual counties. The size attached to this in the treatment of the proposition, cf. Inner. S. No 246 for 1997-98. These objectives of the grant scheme for county dormitories continue to apply and were repeated in St. Prp. No 1 for 1999-2000. St. pp. No 55 for 1997-98 announced that a separate grant scheme would be established for the county offices of thousands of years and indicated that grant funds should be allocated upon application by county councils and according to detailed guidelines. The sites shall be selected in dialogue between the individual municipalities and the Ministry of Culture, and the Stortinget will take the final decisions by means of its decision-making. It has been provided that the counties contribute to the financing. These conditions are clarified in letters to the county councils and mentioned in the budget proposals for 1999 and 2000. The Ministry stated in its 1999 budget proposal that the amount of the State grant will vary from project to project and must be seen in the context of the financial instruments established under the heading. 320, item 73 National cultural buildings. The Ministry clarified that while for some projects it would be appropriate to grant a grant involving a greater State share of the project costs than usual under the scheme, the State grant share for other projects will remain unchanged, but so that the realisation of the project is postponed in time for the period 2000-2005. The Ministry pointed out that overall there will be limited resources available for the purpose, and stressed that this would have consequences for the economic scope of individual projects and for the regional share. In the 2000 budget proposal, the Ministry of Culture stated that the general rule would be that the implementation responsibility for the thousand-year-olds is added to the county municipality where the thousand-year-olds are located. It was stated in the proposition that the county council, possibly together with the municipality, is responsible for the full financing of the thousand-year place and for government operating grants. I assume that the applications from the individual county councils for state grants to a thousand-year-old place will be assessed on the basis of the guidelines I have referred to. I would like to underline what has been stated in previous years' proposals that, overall, there will be limited resources available from the state for each project if we are to ensure that all 19 counties of the country are given a thousand-year-old place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1922	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I then see that the guidelines that were underlying in the first place, i.e. in St.prp. No 55 for 1997-98, still on the ground. Then I have an additional question: is it so that when each state has chosen its millennia site, from which again will a national millennia site be created? Is it going to be picked out of all of these states that become a kind of national monument?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1927	Our starting point is that we're going to have thousands of years in all the counties, and that we're going to have it in place by 2005. It's not the idea that we're going to have a national thousand-year-old place that's almost to be selected from these. It is possible that the representative is targeting the National Political Centre on Eidsvoll, but it will be the millennial site of Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1935	This question, from the representative of Toril Haaland Horpestad to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Jan Simonsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1938	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Fisheries the following questions: ‘In the past, the Rogaland State has experienced poor performance in granting concessions for farmed salmon. In Rogaland, there is both space and capacity for several concessions and increased production. Rogaland County has a good maritime industrial environment, good transport opportunities and a culture of internationalisation and exports/imports. Will this be taken into account in the forthcoming concession award?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1947	1999 was a good year for Norwegian aquaculture. There was an export of salmon and trout for over 12 billion kroner – an increase of almost 24 pst. from the previous year. This shows that aquaculture is an industry with a high potential, and more and more people are now getting their eyes up for it. Several scientific environments have pointed out that fisheries and aquaculture are the sector with the most clearly natural advantage of succeeding in Norway and will in the long term be able to cover too much of the expected decline in oil and gas revenues. However, as the various reports also underline, there are certain limitations, and there are also several prerequisites that must be present for the further positive development of the Norwegian aquaculture industry. In particular, research and development must be pursued in order to succeed, and further efforts must be made to ensure better market access for products. The lease with the EU expires in the summer of 2002. In this respect, the Ministry of Fisheries intends to continue the stable situation in the industry in relation to the market. This implies that the Ministry of Fisheries will facilitate balanced growth in the further development of the aquaculture industry. The Department of Fisheries regulates production in industry in several ways. In recent years, restrictive allocation practices, together with the feed quota system, have been the main forms of regulation. Feed quotas have been adjusted annually since the introduction of the scheme in 1996. We will now begin work on facilitating further balanced growth in the aquaculture industry. I want to maintain close contact with industry organisations in this process. However, I can sketch out some alternative solutions and opportunities when we are going to facilitate an increase in production. We can choose to take out an increase within the existing concessions, or we can award new concessions, to which the representative Simonsen referred. It is also possible to choose a combination of these options. As mentioned above, efforts to facilitate further balanced growth in the aquaculture industry have just begun. I can therefore not say anything about where any new concessions will be awarded. However, areas in which the planning of the municipalities has facilitated the aquaculture industry in terms of localities, infrastructure and the environment will naturally be very well located. I would also like to show that Rogaland has 51 of the total 843 food fish concessions. This is about the same number as, for example, Nord-Trøndelag has. I intend to do this during the year, so that any new concessions will be produced after the end of the salmon agreement in the summer of 2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1966	The Council of State made a very good point when he said that aquaculture would be a good alternative as a growing industry as the oil industry escalates. It's also a central argument to bet on awarding concessions to Rogaland. Rogaland County is the country with the highest value creation in terms of population, largely due to the maritime industries. The conditions are very well suited in the county for both coastal fishing and fish farming. Despite this, the farming industry was very dissatisfied with the allocations that were given earlier, so I hope and believe the Council of State will note the arguments in favour of new concessions in the county, and that the industry can thus be more satisfied with this fisheries minister than with some former fisheries ministers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1973	It is right that the representative Simonsen stresses that we have a very good maritime environment in Rogaland, and it is also right that it provides a good starting point for assessing further growth in the marine sector. However, it has to be that when we assess an increase in capacity in the aquaculture industry, one has to look at it in a balanced way, and see the whole country as a whole. I would like to take into account the points of view that have been put forward here. I want us to have a growth that takes care of the potential that lies in the different areas of the country – including, of course, Rogaland – and believe it is very important that we do this in a way that makes us satisfied in most parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1983	I will ask the following questions to the new Minister for Fisheries: «I St.meld. No 51 Perspectives for the development of Norwegian fishing industry it is established that parts of the fleet need renewal without capacity building. [[1997-98]] The coastal fleet has the highest average age. Today, the quotas are often too small for it to be profitable to replace the old boats. Int. [[1998-99]] O. No 55 requests the Government to investigate the single quota scheme for vessels below 28 m and to propose a natural limit to this scheme. When will the Government bring the matter before the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e1992	Following the adoption by the Stortinget on 4 May 1999 of a decision on the content of the matter by the representative Bæivi, an explanation was presented as Annex I to the Ministry of Fisheries's budget for 2000. Here, the restrictions of access we currently have for such vessels were explained, and it was pointed out that, in the Ministry's opinion, it is not appropriate to introduce without further delay unit quota schemes according to the pattern used within the trawl and ring net, for some of these groups. This is due, inter alia, to: different regulatory models and different levels of utilisation of allowances in different groups. The conclusion of the statement was that the Ministry would continue to work on these questions and invite the industry to a dialogue on the possibilities offered by the use of different unit quota models, or flexible quota arrangements, for vessels below 28 metres. The background to this rather cautious approach was the reactions of the Ministry in the autumn of 1998 to consult a legislative proposal open to unit quota schemes for all groups of vessels. I have noticed that the last time in the budget position, the Committee has asked for a separate matter to be put forward on this matter as soon as possible. However, like my predecessor, I also see it as appropriate that discussions be started between authorities and industry, in particular the Norwegian Fisheries Team, on how to use such an extended legal base, before I come back to Stortinget on this issue. This is due, inter alia, to: together with the introduction of new quota models for vessels below 28 metres requiring clarification of how to demarcate the groups in different fisheries and how to divide the group quotas of different fish species between sub-groups. I can imagine that there is a need for some discussion to find sharing factors that may be general upswing about, and that may form the basis for stability in the future. The discussion on the use of the legal framework is necessary in order to avoid the same reactions that occurred in the autumn of 1998 as the direct reason for the delimitation of the legal framework. currently not usable for conventional vessels less than 28 metres. I see it as most relevant to introduce new vessel quota models down to approx. 21 metres or 70 ft, which is a limit which is used in other contexts and which is also proposed by a working group consisting of representatives of the industry and the administration as a frontier in relation to area limitations for major autoline vessels. I want to start this process now with a view to getting back to Stortinget with a bill in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2011	Safe and appropriate vessels will have a major impact on the recruitment of the fishing industry and will also provide better profitability. In the context of the perspective notification, a unanimous committee considered that the design of the vessel had to be freed without increasing fishing capacity, also in order to take care of by-products that are currently unused but have a high potential for value creation. Will the Minister take this into account in the further investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2021	I fully agree with the representative Bæivi that it is very important to develop ships that are safe and appropriate and that provide security for those who work on board. However, it is not that one can release this completely freely. One has to let development be based on what creates appropriate production, as also Beevivi underlined, in relation to by-products and value creation potential. It is such that we have certain vessel limits that it will in any case be necessary to deal with as regards the construction of new vessels. We're now looking at those boundaries, and we're going to get back to it in connection with this bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2029	This question, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be raised by the representative of Arvid Falch.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2032	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘King crabs were set up in Murmanskfjorden for some years back. This is a new species that was introduced to the Barents Sea. The king crab is now widespread throughout Finnmark and creates great difficulties for coastal fishermen. They get damaged yarn, get an unwanted by-catch and risk at the top of the entire police report as a result. At the same time, commercial quotas are minimal, because of agreements with the Russians. What will the Minister for Fisheries do to increase the outreach and mitigate the problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2041	The royal crab is jointly managed by Norway and Russia. Since 1994, a limited amount of research has been carried out after king crabs. It has been decided to have a controlled research fisheries where data are collected and where it is added to a gradual increase in output. In the long term, knowledge of what is a sustainable off-take and the level of off-take that will provide maximum sustained economic benefits will be available. The royal crab is a valuable resource that can in the future be an addition to fishing in Finnmark and in the northernmost areas. The research rate has increased from 30 000 crabs in 1998-1999 to 75 000 crabs for the 2000-2001 season. Norway and Russia share the quota 50-50, i.e. with a breakdown of 37 500 to each of the countries for the coming season. On the Norwegian side, we want to increase the quota further. During the recent visit of the chairman of the Russian Federation State Committee on Fisheries, Juri P. Sinelnik, I took up the opportunities to increase the quota and to participate in the fishing for king crabs before the harvest season begins in the autumn of 2000. We will come back to this through the work of the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission. I fully agree that by-catch of royal crabs is a significant problem for the practice of traditional fisheries, especially in the Varanger area. In recent years, attempts have been made to document the by-catch problems and their impact on the practice of net and line fishing in eastern Finland. In 1997, by-catch of royal crabs was estimated to be a total of 95 000 crabs. However, in 1998, it was estimated that it was taken approximately. 36 000 crabs by-catch in Norway’s economic zone. In other words, the scope is somewhat uncertain. The fisheries authorities are very serious about the problems that the king crab creates for businessmen. Work is now under way to solve the practical problems of by-catch of king crabs for traditional fisheries. Among other things, there is experimentation with the flexing of yarns and testing of codites as an alternative tool. The royal crab is an introduced species, which is foreign to the Norwegian fauna. For this reason, governments have increased their research efforts to gain knowledge about development. I see the problems that have arisen. I want to take the initiative for a meeting with the industry to discuss how we can best deal with the problems and possibly exploit the king crab better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2058	I thank the Minister for the answer, but I am afraid that this research is a small matter. It's been going on since 1994. Recent research has shown that the royal crab is host to a parasitic that is deadly to cod. Such conditions are now, only a king crab must be classified as a pest. It is estimated to be about 10 million crabs in Norwegian and Russian waters. It is safe to say that the crab has taken over the conventional fish fields. The crab is totally satisfied with Russian demands. Is there such a requirement from the responsible Russian authorities? Have we not been able to explain what damage this king crab is causing to Norwegian fauna and fisheries by the free growth of the stock? Even in good weather, fishermen often have to take the farm to land to clean and clear the gear. Can the Minister for Fisheries do anything about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2063	I agree with the representative Falch that we need to invest resources to get control of the developments we have seen, especially as the king crab spreads with record speed along the south coast, and that it has now been found all the way down to the west. It is also true that the population is totally satisfied, but that we have agreed with the Russians after negotiations to catch up on research. I think it is very important to be able to lay the groundwork for increased catches, because that's the only way we can take stock down and thus create better conditions for traditional fisheries. I have taken the initiative to do so through a request to my Russian colleague. Of course, I will follow up on that work, and I am very concerned that we get results here that will improve the conditions for traditional fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2070	I thank the Minister of Fisheries for the answer, and I am pleased that he gives this question as much attention as it deserves. I would like the Minister for Fisheries to be able to set in motion a free fishing, because I am afraid that if not so, one could face an environmental disaster in Finnmark, with the result that this would have to do with the conventional operation of fishermen there. Could it be that the Minister for Fisheries can help us open up to free fishing – before the madness happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2077	The representative, Falch, asks if it is possible to carry out a free fishing operation. I would like to stress that we need to find solutions in cooperation with our Russian neighbours. But the impression I was left with after talking to the Russian minister was that this would follow up. I would like to stress that if we agree on a commercial fishing of royal crabs in cooperation with the Russians, it will be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2082	Then, as the last question, we're going to deal with question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2088	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Church, Education and Research: ‘How will the Council of State secure young people with special reading and writing difficulties or special learning difficulties in mathematics? [[dyslexia]] [[dyscalculi]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2095	First of all, I would like to remind you of the following: Right-wing education takes place mainly on the basis of the current requirement that the applicant must have general study competence from continuing training. A few studies have additional requirements for special study competence. The ministry is regularly contacted by individuals who want right-wing education but who do not meet the formal requirements for general study competence. Several of these subjects are reading and writing difficulties or special learning difficulties in mathematics as a reason why they have not met all the academic requirements for general study competence. I have a lot of understanding for the questions that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt is traveling here. In the current regulation on general study competence, there is currently no room for deviations from the recording requirements in specific circumstances, such as there. have been shown to have learning difficulties such as dyslexia or dyscalculia. This is what I am configured to look at more closely, in connection with a quick review of the recording rules. In concrete terms, I would like to consider setting out the possibility to deviate from the requirement of general study competence in specific cases, on an individual basis. In January I had an own meeting with representatives from among others. The Dyslexia Association, Reading Research Centres and the State Resource and Adult Training Centre to discuss current problem settings relate to the study situation of students with reading and writing difficulties. As a follow-up to the meeting, I am setting up a working group to address these issues more specifically. The theme that the representative Ausdal Starrfelt addresses is therefore a high priority in the ministry. The question of opening deviations from the general study competence requirement in the admission regulations is related to the discussion of admission on the basis of real competence. During this academic year, several right-wing educational establishments are given the opportunity to experiment with admission on such a basis. This applies, for example: caregivers training, pre-school teacher training and general teacher training. The Ministry is now sending on a hearing proposals for changes to the law that open up to take students to the right on the basis of individual assessment of the competence of non-educational institutions. The proposal sets out minimum requirements for admission that the applicant must have reached the age of 25. When it comes to the issue of study funding, I argued that any changes to the law and admission regulations would be followed up by corresponding changes in the legislation of the Loan Fund. Finally, let me underline that an opening of the possibilities to be subscribed to right-hand education should not imply reduced requirements for students’ documentation of knowledge and competence during and at the end of the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2112	I thank the Council of State for your answer. My question is just now based on a very specific case, where a Norwegian youth with problems with mathematics and therefore not the character of mathematics from the secondary school nevertheless came into an educational institution in the United States, but then got no study funding. That matter is now in the Department of the Council of State, and I hope that it is possible to allow grace to go right in that matter. And it points out, as the Council of State also says, an important problem, and I am pleased with the positive will expressed in the Council of State's response. It's a little strange, I have to say, that this case has not been listed before, when we know how much focus this has been on – perhaps more on dyslexia than dyscalculia. Now it is likely that they with dyslexia will have bigger problems as students than those with dyscalculus, but I hope that the distribution to be made and the working group to be set down will apply to both areas, and the Council of State will answer that and may say something about the progress on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2121	Yes, I'm in agreement with Agent Ausdal Starrfelt that it's really strange that one hasn't gotten involved at any point in time. It's probably based most deeply on a fear of making rules of escape, which then have to be treated individually. Obviously, if a non-worker does them well in relation to clearly defined areas, all government councils will have a completely impossible task of going into matters individually. But I agree with the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt that it is totally unimaginable that those who have this problem cannot receive individual treatment. That is what I am prepared to do, but I think some study needs to be adapted and perhaps not others. When it comes to the specific matter, I can't deal with it here, but I can say so much: As long as it goes within the current regulation, we will resolve the matter. But that's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2128	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and it was basically a greeting I wanted to send in that context, not a question to get an answer here and now. I see quite clearly that this must be done, and that a piece of work must be done so that a person makes such exceptions under certain conditions and in certain circumstances. I argued that the individual assessment only for those over the age of 25 will not be valid, but that this may also apply to 19-20-year-olds. It is in a way that this matter was also illustrated – the person could come back when she was 23, and then she would be able to get a loan. So it doesn't make any sense in any area. So I hope it will also apply to young people, and I would like to have a confirmation of that. So I wonder if the Council of State has any ambitions that students with these kinds of problems can search for recording on an individual basis already from the autumn of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2137	Yes, the Council of States has that ambition, but can't promise here and now that we get it, because we have to have this distribution work first. I would also like to confirm that both of the groups with which the questioner included - dyslexia and dyscalculia - should be included. I also want to confirm that there should be no 25 year limit for those to be evaluated on an individual basis. The reason why we have it in real life is because we don't want to get a development where people don't go to college. But here are the people who have taken the further education that still have problems in one area. As a result, the assessment must be made on an individual basis with a lower age, and the Loan Fund must also be synchronised with it. I'm going to do the best I can to get this done, but I have to admit that after I started to make regulations and rules here, I realize that this is a monthly complexity. But at least I agree with the questioner and should do my best.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2144	Then the last words were said in this questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-02.ana.ud2536e2153	There is no record.
