ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e26	We could probably start with, since the clock is 18, advertising to be present in the hall and writing polar history today and not spending time on other things, because it's an exciting and important day when the Storting now finishes the Svalbard message. The Svalbard message was an invitation from the previous government to a broadest possible compromise on Svalbard policy. It put the new government behind it, and the Foreign Affairs Committee has shown that there is a basis for a broad compromise on Svalbard policy, and that is important. There is reason to pay tribute to the case rapporteur for having done a good job and for having just assumed that it is perhaps more important here than in any other matter that there is an overall political environment, so that we get a swallowing policy that is stable and predictable over time. It is one of the most important and enjoyable things to stress when we are dealing with the Svalbard message today. I'm going to use my time to address some of the most important issues and issues that have been most prominent in the debate around this message. The first and most important is the industrial policy of Svalbard, which is the basis of nutrition. A few years ago, many would predict to transform the Svalbard community and Longyearbyen from a clean coal-based, and perhaps politically motivated coal-based, society into a more diverse society with many bones to stand on in a nutritious sense. There has been a normalization of this society, faster than certainly many would have predicted a few years ago, and that's good. Nevertheless, the question of future coal operations is and has been a central issue. Since the previous government found it appropriate to clarify the basis for further coal operations without major State budget appropriations and to find a resource base to operate it, it was based on a desire and hope that this could be a society in which coal also means something in the future in a nutritional sense, together with other important industries, but in a way acceptable to the environment and which does not require budgetary appropriations to maintain this business. Now a year has passed since the Stortinget joined the pulpit in the so-called Central Field to prepare the basis for a decision in the Stortinget on permanent coal operations on this resource base. All the news we've been given so far seems to be promising in the sense that there is a driving presence here, which will provide the basis for a possible decision in the Stortingen on permanent coal operations. I would like to stress the importance of – and that is within the context of the overall committee – that this should be an environmentally acceptable coal operation, and it is essential that the coal company also uses it. This means that if the Stortinget takes a decision on permanent coal operations in the central area, this must not in any way be produced in such a way that coal has won and the environment has lost, but it must be based on a balance where important environmental interests have also been safeguarded. For this reason, the rapporteur and the Committee have given crucial attention to the protection of Reindalen, and that the road should not be necessary as a basis for achieving this balance between a future modern coal industry acceptable to the environment and the obvious and important environmental interests that are, in fact, the most important interests in our management of Svalbard. It is then important that the coal company has the necessary fine motors for this balance sheet in its further work. It is not acceptable to live on the principle that forgiveness is easier to obtain than authorisation. There must be a good dialogue with the owner, who will once again ensure that this balance sheet is maintained in a good way. And I feel confident that it will happen in the future. Then profitability and what you understand with profitability in such coal operations is a topic on which there has already been a debate, both in the local press on Svalbard and in connection with the Svalbard message. For me, who has been dealing with these issues for a long time, it has been crucial to find a future coal operation that does not depend on annual, ongoing government budget appropriations. Whereas wage-earning operations in this sense must be understood primarily as operations which do not depend on current subsidies; It also means that there should be a profitability that is so large that the margins relative to having to face current operating costs are satisfactory. But that does not mean that there should be expectations from the owner of the coal company, the Norwegian State, that there should be a profitability requirement here that will result in a return on invested capital. In that case, it could also be a driving force to massive production volumes, because this is a type of operation where costs are tied to fixed costs, and there will always be enormous interest in increasing the volume as long as one has capacity within the investments made. However, I would like to stress that subsidy-free production should have good safety margins, should be robust, so that some surplus is produced to ensure that transfers over the State budget may not be needed in more difficult years. On that basis, I think that there will be a reasonable compromise around this, too, when the Storting is going to make its final decisions. But the joy is that there are also other industries on Svalbard that will be involved and make this society robust in the future. It is important to underline the enormously exciting developments in research and education. Although there are also significant transfers of the State budget in the first instance, not least the proposed research park, which the Committee agrees with the need to achieve, is a significant and exciting activity which can also provide an interesting small-scale research-based business around this environment. It will also help to make this society robust. I also think it is important to underline another exciting business that has grown up on Svalbard, and that there may be least attention around, namely satellite activity and ground management of satellites, primarily the SvalSat plant on the plateau. This is a business area where we have a genuine natural advantage. Being able to travel by plane and live in such a pleasant community as near the North Pole has some natural advantage that it's hard to find anywhere else on the globe. It makes me think there's going to be a significant demand regarding establishments on the plateau mountain and elsewhere on Svalbard of such activities in the future. And it's good within frameworks that are politically acceptable. There's been a lot of discussion about this, because these are things that it's hard to understand completely for people. There's been a lot of discussion about controlling this, whether we can be sure that it's civil and good business. I am convinced that the Norwegian authorities have a full overview of this, but it may be a matter for the Minister of Justice to take on board whether the employment position of the civil servant should be strengthened as regards the possibility of controlling what is happening in satellite activities, not least as long as this is a purely Norwegian activity, and that good enough control is established while there is still a purely Norwegian activity, so that one can have the same control over whether other countries should establish such activities at Svalbard. It could give a legitimacy for such control, and I think that one should investigate and take care of quite early. One of the last important activities that I want to mention, and that have a lot of attention, is travel. In my opinion, Svalbard must be among the most exotic destinations, perhaps the most exotic in Europe. I think that will also lead to a significant demand in the future. It is not at least an activity that obviously requires regulation and a will from the Norwegian authorities to do so, otherwise it will be able to represent significant conflicts in relation to the environment. Democracy and local democracy are important, and I am pleased with the commitment we have received on the basis of this big message to further develop local democracy at Svalbard, not least in society in Longyearbyen. It is important for people who want to live in a good society and in a good community, that they are involved and decide on their own fate and their own lives. That's why we have local democracy. Owning their problems and owning the solution to their problems is part of the social building with which the Svalbard community and Longyearbyen now have to move forward, and the key to this is not least, I think, the basis of the broad compromise, that the structural society Svalbard Society is transferred to the community. It could have been said a lot about it. I just want to pass it on from this pulpit that the state and the authorities on their part in the negotiations with the community about the transfer of this limited liability company show a necessary degree of liberalism that makes it a soft transition. This often means that the balance sheet has to be crossed by a few cents that allow Svalbard to operate in a good way to address the challenges. Not least, any money to be able to rust up energy plants and future energy solutions will be central in such a context. Let me finish by giving homage to all the people on Svalbard who I think are doing a great job, not just to create good lives, we all have to struggle with that in different places, but also because you're doing an important job for the Norwegian community in terms of taking care of and building a society so far north.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e58	The Svalbard Treaty of 9 February 1920 gives Norway ‘the full and unrestricted sovereignty’ over Svalbard, and the Svalbard Act of 17 July 1925 states that the archipelago ‘is part of the Kingdom of Norway’. As the rapporteur has already pointed out today, our presence on Svalbard is precisely justified in the exercise of this sovereignty. The overall objectives of the svalbard policy have been set for a long time, and they are not altered either by the Stortinge's treatment of the Svalbard notification today. Nevertheless, there has been rapid local development on Svalbard and also in the framework conditions for Norwegian svalbard policy. It is against this background that we need to see the changes that are now being grouped together by a majority in the Storting regarding the further development of the community at Svalbard. As many have already pointed out, Svalbard no longer appears to be a unilateral mining community. Not least during the last five to ten years, significant growth has taken place in other activities, while coal mining has been reduced. Travel life is experiencing growth and there has been a significant increase in research and education activities. A well-developed infrastructure — good communications — is helping to make the island group a sought-after place for research, both nationally and internationally. So today, the Svalbard community is on three feet of business: it's mining, it's education and research, and it's travel. This breadth of activity has also contributed to the Longyearbyen becoming what we call a family society. For the treatment of St.meld. No 9 on Svalbard today, however, a landmark is being reduced by the introduction of local democracy in Svalbard. This is in line with the view that any Norwegian society should be governed by a elected body. The system of administrative boards is a different one. Local democracy will give citizens greater influence over the development of their own community. The working party has, through a long process and in its own investigations, launched a suitable framework for local government on the island group and in Longyearbyen. I believe that the local sections of the political parties in Svalbard and their role should be highlighted. They have worked successfully for many years to achieve this very goal. The treatment of the Svalbard message shows that there is now a broad political consensus on the establishment of Longyearbyen local government, with tasks that are very much the same as the municipal authorities have on the mainland. In some areas, the Stortinget also goes beyond what it was actually designed for in the Storing Message. This applies, inter alia, to: the Committee's commitment to the transfer of the school to the local government at the turn of the year 2005-2006. The same is true of the decision of the Grand Duchy today on the electoral law paragraph which mentions the term of the election. We believe that Svalbard should also have a four-year period. Another example of the fact that today’s Storting goes beyond the headlines provided is that we also point out that the principle of annual target allocation for Svalbard State employees should be removed. Of course, we understand – as the majority of the Committee also points out – that the practice of the annual target system has been softened. But the time is ripe to remove it as a principle, and then the Committee points out the necessary exceptions to be made. Research and education appears to be one of the most important activities in Svalbard today, which is also more central in a general political context than in the past. The university studies at Svalbard have given Svalbard a new dimension and must be seen as a success both professionally and in the community. Svalbard Research Park is planned to be a co-location of all the academic environments in Longyearbyen, Svalbard Museum, a magazine for archaeological and cultural historical material and possibly an information centre on Svalbard's nature and environment. The communication was initially somewhat pending for the proposal to extend the park. That is why it is very positive that today the bulk of the population goes further and recommends that one proceed as quickly as possible with the construction plans. The research park could provide good coordination gains by co-location of research and education skills of different types. In the past, Norwegian coal has been the primary instrument for maintaining Norwegian presence at Svalbard. As you know, coal has undergone major conversions. Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS operates today with test drive in Svea Nord. This project has not yet been submitted to Stortinget for treatment. The decision base to enable us to address the issue of permanent operations will be presented at the end of the year in line with the company's plans. The protection of the environment at Svalbard is to ensure that our presence within the framework and with regard to the considerations we have to put in the high seat, not least when we are to take care of what is underlined by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the vote, namely to maintain the precautionary principle as regards the management of the environment at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e84	I feel the first need to express my sincere thanks to our own representative in the Svalbard Council and to the Svalbard Council for the constructive input that local government officials at Svalbard have had in the process we now have of finalising the Svalbard decision-making. There have been many visits to Svalbard this spring. The municipal committee has also been there, not least because it wanted to discuss and look at the adaptation to local democracy at Svalbard. As a representative from Troms, I have been so lucky that I have been on Svalbard for a long time before, as a proxy, I visited the island as a committee member. I have enjoyed working with representatives from Svalbard, among others. at the meetings that a then school director and after every education director had, and we realized of the principal Holm could tell about the amazing school they were running at Svalbard, that things were different there. The mining community has changed into a normal family society. It is a well-adapted community for families, with kindergarten and a school that has combined primary and secondary schools. It was with pride that Principal Holm told of this school to us who lived on the mainland. We are going to experience debates about the Svalbard community in the future. There are many people in Svalbard today who want a life-cycle society. There are many people who have lived on Svalbard throughout their adult life, and who, after their professional career, can still imagine living there. The debate on the future Svalbard society is hardly over today. So the Municipal Committee went to Svalbard to look at local democracy. It is good to want a process model on Svalbard, a gradual development to an increasingly vibrant local democracy. It is important that the Svalbard Council take over the operation of the Svalbard community. The Christian People's Party has in the vote said that Svalbard Church should remain under the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, in line with what the Svalbard Council wants. It is important that the on-site worker has the functions of a county in the mainland. It's important to link the functions up to the presence of Svalbard and Longyearbyen. Several have been involved in the debate on the research undertaken, and the UNIS built up. To the autumn, from 27 to 29 August, the fourth Parliamentary Conference on Arctic Cooperation in Rovaniemi is to discuss the possibility of an Arctic University. The Committee has affected this in its position and asked the Ministry, in cooperation with UNIS, to clarify the role that UNIS can play in an Arctic University. Finally: The health offer at Svalbard is fantastic! It is so good that there is probably more consumption of health services on Svalbard than in a normal continental community. But according to my concepts, the preparedness on Svalbard is not good enough. There have been visits, including: from this house, which has experienced that helicopters did not arrive. In my opinion, the surgical preparedness at Svalbard is too poor, and at the time that I myself was the director at RiTø, we worked on the possibility of cooperating with the hospital at Svalbard just to increase the surgical preparedness. I think this will be a debate that will take place on Svalbard, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e101	A comprehensive assessment of Norwegian svalbard policy has been carried out in the Svalbard report and the objectives, priorities and instruments specific to Svalbard have been set out. Since the last Svalbard survey on svalbard nearly 15 years ago, there has been a broad political consensus on the main lines and priorities of Norwegian svalbard policy, as was the case before 1985. The objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy have been set for a long time, and this has been a stabilising factor and has contributed to peaceful development in the area. The basis for the management of Svalbard is Norway’s full and unrestricted sovereignty on the island group. This is enshrined in the Svalbard Treaty and confirmed by the exercise of the powers of nearly 75 years. But Norway not only has the right to exercise powers within the framework of the Treaty, we also have a duty to enforce sovereignty in a proper and credible way. Major changes have taken place over the last ten years in the external framework conditions, including for Norwegian foreign and security policy. However, the strategic importance of svalbard has not diminished. As also pointed out both in the communication and in the Committee's position, it has been rather of a different nature. Svalbard faces several challenges, and several of the members of the Government are responsible for Norwegian swallowing policy. This applies to myself, in particular the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Enterprise and Trade and the Minister for Church, Education and Research. Since the previous Svalbard hit-up was dealt with in Stortinget, there have been major changes on Svalbard. There has been rapid growth in Norwegian settlements, extensive privatisation and differentiation in local business, and increasing international presence on the island group. An increasing number of actors and interests are involved in Svalbard than just ten years ago. Longyearbyen has evolved into a place of greater diversity of businesses. In the past, Longyearbyen was a one-sided industrial site with coal operations as the only food supply. Today, society has three legs to stand on: coal, travel, research and higher education. One of the most important issues of the Government promoted in the Svalbard message is the introduction of local democracy in Longyearbyen. The Communication emphasises that the Longyearbyen population will have influence and responsibility for the development of the community. However, the introduction of local democracy must take account of foreign policy conditions and the specific needs of the State for monitoring developments on the island group, including: for the high environmental objectives set for Svalbard. The social characteristics of Longyearbyen are also important. Overall, this provides a different framework for the development of local democracy in Longyearbyen than in mainland Europe. This has been followed up in the position of the Committee. There is agreement that local democracy should be introduced by the establishment of a Longyearbyen local government that is mainly given tasks that are municipal in the mainland. The Committee has also agreed that Longyearbyen will take over as owner of Svalbard Society as soon as possible. The government will work towards the introduction of local democracy at the turn of the year 2001-2002. Environmental protection has become increasingly important in Norwegian swallowing policy over the past 25 years. One of the main challenges facing Norwegian svalbard policy is to strengthen the protection of Svalbard’s unique natural and cultural environment. It has been said in the big news that the objective of preserving Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature lies at the heart of environmental protection policy. Svalbard shall appear as one of the world's best-preserved wilderness areas. Environmental considerations shall weigh heavily on conflicts between environmental objectives and other interests. All industrial activities, resource use, research and education shall take place within the framework of the conservation of the natural environment and cultural heritage of Svalbard. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the objective of maintaining the scope of wilderness areas in Svalbard. The Communication also sets out the work of providing a protection plan that emphasises the protection of biologically rich land areas and, together with existing protection areas, includes a representative cross-section of the natural and cultural environment of Svalbard. I have noticed that the Committee stresses that the wild-field areas should be used and experienced, but in such a way that use and movement do not reduce the extent or quality of the areas in the long term. That's not hard to agree with. Coal mining is at a crucial stage. Large Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani has started trial operations in Svea Nord, and the company has contributed to a redundancy of operations in relation to the previous plan of operations. The revised national budget this year has therefore proposed additional funds for investment in the convict board. At the same time, it is proposed that the production ceiling be 400000 tonnes of coal per tonne. years are repealed so that the company can increase coal production. Based on the late progress, Stor Norske now believes that the company can address the issue of permanent operation in Svea Nord already until the autumn. Great Norwegian plans for coal mining at Svalbard have changed rapidly in the last year, and in some cases the changed plans have also rushed to the department. In the future, the government will closely monitor the activities of Great Norwegian, and emphasis is placed on the fact that further progress in Svea Nord is taking place in close dialogue between Great Norwegian and the Government. Moreover, I am pleased to note that the majority of the committee points to the fact that Great Norske has been an important instrument in Norwegian swallowing policy since the beginning of 1916, and that the assessment of the future activities of Great Norske requires an overall assessment of coal mining as a tool in Norwegian swallowing policy. There has been a significant growth in research and education activities in the archipelago over the past ten years. Svalbard is the most accessible high-arctic area in the world, and the archipelago has become central to both national and international research in the Arctic. Research activities help to give Norwegian scientific environments access to international networks. At the same time, it contributes to the provision of the knowledge base for the exercise of Norwegian administration on the island group and in the surrounding sea areas. In recent years, there has been an extensive expansion of research stations and other infrastructures for research and education. I would particularly like to point out the bet in the New Ålesund. The site has established itself as an international research and environmental monitoring station and has the status of Large Scale Facility under the EU research programme. Furthermore, I would like to highlight the establishment of university studies at Svalbard, which got its first students in place in 1993. There has also been a focus on space-related activities. The international research community has invested in two radars at Longyearbyen, and there are built launch bases for probes in New Ålesund and satellite earth station at Longyearbyen. Norway has contributed a large amount of funding to these facilities. The Committee points to the growth potential of these activities. It also underlines the importance of effective and credible control of the operation of earth stations in accordance with the Svalbard Treaty. I can assure you that the Government attaches great importance to this happening. I would also like to point out to the representative Sponheim that, according to the regulation of June last year, Sysselmann has the supervisory authority with this, and that the government will of course also keep an eye on it and, if necessary, make proposals for the Storting to the extent that there is a need to strengthen that control. Since the previous Svalbard impact assessment, there has been a decentralisation of responsibilities and powers in the various public sectors. There has also been significant growth in private enterprises in Svalbard. The Committee points out that this has reduced the ability of policy authorities to conduct a comprehensive management of developments in areas of national interest. In this context, the Government will look at how to strengthen the coordinating role of the Polar Committee, as requested by the Committee, and will also assess whether the Polar Committee should be given greater budgetary responsibility for the overall State activity on the island group. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the extensive changes that have taken place on Svalbard since the presentation of the previous general survey report show the importance of having a general sulphurisation policy with sufficient flexibility and robustness. Svalbard is important for Norway. I refer to what I have said both about Svalbard's natural environment and the island group's unique qualities for research. On Svalbard, there is also a Norwegian population who demand the attention of the authorities, in line with all other residents in Norway, although it is stressed by both the Government and the Committee majority that it does not mean that Svalbard should develop into a so-called life-cycle society. Our overall national interests at Svalbard are best safeguarded by continuing an active policy anchored in long-term, overall objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e137	There has been an interesting debate that has taken place today on Svalbard and the Svalbard community. I think it is high time that this debate was held in Stortinget. It is high time that some organisational changes were also implemented, and that a discussion was held on the future of Norwegian interests in the islands. I also think it's very important that, in all our general objectives, we don't go halfway around what we really want and what we want on Svalbard. I think that some comments leave it in the air that we are in half-distance when it comes to coal mining, that we are in half-distance when it comes to questions about the further development of travel life, and, of course, overall these issues are related to the environmental protection aspect. I think it's important that we give clear signals for the future, and not least it's important that we give clear signals in terms of further coal operations. I think the preliminary results from Svea Nord indicate that this is all reason to give a clear signal to further operations. Of course, the time isn't in today to give it, but these questions are so important that the marshalls of those who are going to work, stay and develop Svalbard further, must be given in capital letters. I think we have to be absolutely clear that there is coal drift that is the prerequisite for stability, for settlement and for development on Svalbard. It is coal that is the basis of all other infrastructure and communication, and that ensures that the happy results we have seen in travel life, in education and in research are such that they need to be invested in. We have to be positive and we have to develop these. I think that of what we see especially in research in a relatively clearly defined strategically located area, the developments taking place in satellite communications, space technology, fisheries research, climate research and polar research are what is most pleasing to the nation of Norway and to Norwegian researchers. These are areas that are probably unique in the context of the world, and that we have to bet on developing further. If we end up in a discussion about getting to half-distance in several of these questions, we don't give people who are going to bet on Svalbard, clear enough signals. I think it's okay that we give them clear signals on the question of a democratisation process, which should have been carried out a long time ago. We must allow people living there to control their own lives. The guidelines are clearly defined from before. The same guidelines must be clear for the future, also for the employment man. Not least, it is important that those who will continue to work and live on Svalbard and develop society in line with Norwegian interests continue to have very good framework conditions. Svalbard is located in an area so nutritious and strategically interesting and important for Norway that only good framework conditions can provide sensible management – and, of course, with overall environmental policy, strategic thinking, we can provide people who are going to live and develop society with enough marshalls for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e148	It is good that there is such a broad consensus about the issues involved in the handling of the Svalbard message. That's good, because it would be very unfortunate if this were a point where you had strong political quiver and where there were deep divisions in the Storting. There would be no good signal in the debate that is relative to our sovereignty up there. I want to talk about what's going on in education and research at Svalbard, and there's an incredible amount of exciting happening. UNIS is an incredible construction. Just the idea of a university far out in the Arctic is basically almost absurd, but it's turned out to be a huge success and an incredibly exciting environment. And it's important that we join in and support it, so that the environment can continue to evolve. Now there's been something new, it's been something exciting, it's been something exotic, but we have to make sure that there's always a development, and that this environment doesn't stagnate and almost cemented and remains, at best, on the spot rest. A reputation for a good academic environment is spreading. It spreads relatively quickly, but it does not spread at hyperspeed. On the other hand, the rumor of a bad academic environment will spread instantly, and could soon be devastating to the environment there. That's why it's important that we now realize the plans for a research park in Longyearbyen. It's very good that the committee goes beyond that message. We need to get all the small and few academic environments that are in Longyearbyen. We have to bring the museum, get to an information center, so this can be something very exciting and very good. If those environments can draw on each other and exploit each other's strength, it will help to promise education and research at Svalbard. UNIS has been organised as a foundation in cooperation between the four Norwegian universities. It's worked. It has ensured that several environments on the mainland have a property relationship with the UNIS construction. It has been involved and secured recruitment, and it has created a kind of spirit of hard work and pioneering, and as you can see, the whole country has been part of the construction of UNIS. Now we are familiar with the fact that the Riksaudition has had objections to that form of organisation. I think you have to have the principle that when something works very well, there's no point in changing that much. It's pointless. But if we were to be forced to do this another way, it must be a principle that all the four universities should be closely linked to UNIS. It is also important to consider whether no more environments are allowed to participate in it than to participate in it less. It's important that the whole country is part of this. Svalbard is a unique platform for research. It is a unique laboratory for researchers from all over the world. One of the areas that has recently taken off is space-related activity. We know that Svalbard is extremely favorable to, among other things. with regard to northern light research. It's probably the only place with good infrastructure where you can see daylight lights, and it's something that some researchers think is very nice, and they want to contribute a lot of research. Among other things, researchers from all over the world are being drawn to Spitsbergen to conduct research there. In fact, there is almost a greater interest among foreign researchers in using the installations that are here, and it should be a challenge for us to make the Norwegian environments heavier with and to use the infrastructure and the environment where even more than they do today. It is unique to have its own state-of-the-art airport operated by large, modern aircraft in the Arctic climate. There is no other place in the world that has such an infrastructure located in the middle of the kind of Eldorado for researchers. We have begun to exploit this, and we must continue to exploit it. The Church, Education and Research Committee in Stortinget has been involved in the examination of this Communication. We visited Longyearbyen and New Ålesund now in spring, and were fascinated by nature and impressed by the education and research that is going on there. The environment is good and exciting, but it is under development and can be vulnerable. I think there is a cross-political consensus that we should continue to work to ensure the continued development of research and education at Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e163	A number of articles have highlighted the key role of environmental protection in the squalor policy. I am pleased that the Committee agrees that the scope of wild-field areas in Svalbard should be sought for maintenance, and that the majority of the Committee would like to avoid demarcating coherent wilderness areas by continuous nature interventions. The government will follow this up in practice, both by strengthening the legislation governing access to natural resources and by establishing new areas of protection. In a short time, the Government will adopt the protection of the Bear Island in line with the proposal mentioned in the Communication. We are working on a protection plan for biologically productive areas in line with the Stortingen decision, which we will be able to present in 2001. The government will ensure that the protection values in the areas concerned are not impaired while the protection plan is under way and we will take the necessary measures. A proposal for a new environmental law for Svalbard has been consulted, and the Ministry of Environment is now working on the legislative proposal. The law shall set environmental conditions for all activity on the island group. We have significant environmental challenges as a result of the increasing activity in travel and research and the plans for future coal operations. There is also a relationship between old sins, waste management and waste disposal, and it is important to follow-up, among other things. the obvious problem of ship-trafficking trash, as referred to by the case-rapporteur. Cultural memories are vulnerable and subject to wear due to increasing movement. I have noticed that the Committee broadly supports the proposals presented in the communication and is pleased to support the Committee's support for measures to reduce environmental damage in snowmobile traffic. The government will, among other things, provide for the establishment of law-abiding scooter-free areas around the settlements, where locals and tourists can enjoy non-motorised outdoors without being shyed by noise. At Svalbard, it is important that we legislate on environmental standards that lie ahead of international standards and that confirm environmental principles that led to the use of the best available technology and the environmental impacter's responsibility. I am therefore very pleased that the Committee believes that the conduct of goods thinking must be the guiding principle for the management of Svalbard. I have also noticed the expectations of the Committee and several speakers that the proposal for the Swallow Environment Act will come in the near future, and I hope to be able to make a proposal early next year. Such progress for the Svea Nord project will have to be dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation. The environmental protection assessments of the project are of central importance for the assessment of any permanent operation. The Ministry of the Environment will ask Great Norwegian to carry out a full impact assessment in line with the requirements of the Planning and Building Act, both in terms of procedures and quality requirements. We have reached a long way in environmental protection at Svalbard, for example. because of an active protection policy. Most of the island group have remained virtually untouched by nature and ecosystems. However, if we are to maintain and continue what has been achieved, there is not enough law and order. The sectors must also take special account of the pursuit of their interests. I think travel life on Svalbard is a good example here. The Norwegian Polar Institute, as highlighted by the Committee, has a central role in Norwegian polar research. The government considers that Norwegian research at Svalbard must have a scale and a professional level that allows it to contribute a good knowledge base to the management of Svalbard, contribute to the preservation of national interests in the island group, and make Norwegian environments attractive partners in international research cooperation at Svalbard. Growth in research and education is therefore positive, but let me conclude by reminding you that Svalbard must also carry out this activity within a sound environmental framework and so that conflicts with other societal interests are minimised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e186	Svalbard is facing a greater challenge than ever since the Arctic skipper Søren Zachariassen from Tromsø brought coal from the Bohemannese in 1899. He found the coals as early as 1862, visible today. Now the mining is near the end, the mountains are empty, and soon the last mine in Longyearbyen closes. That is why it is appropriate that the Storting should now discuss the overall objectives of the future swallowing policy. Most importantly, we therefore need to impose Norwegian sovereignty enforcement. Norway must pursue a comprehensive policy based on a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty. If we're doing this, we can quickly put our interests in jeopardy. The Svalbard Treaty gives Norway both obligations and rights. Environment, business and housing are key elements that need to be balanced within a comprehensive savoury policy. The balance between a pleasant living environment with outdoor life and a very vulnerable Arctic flora and fauna must find its solution. Fisheries resources in the Svalbard zone and Norwegian sustainable resource management in the north are also an aspect of svalbard policy and sovereignty. One element of maintaining sovereignty is a Norwegian full-time residence in an almost fully-fledged family community at Svalbard. Another is that there is an economically fairly profitable basic industry that ensures a full-year residence and an infrastructure that other activities can make use of. In my opinion, this basic industry cannot be anything but coal, and that means that Svea Nord will play a central role in the coming years. In the long term, I see nothing but that the central area must be opened with the development of the necessary infrastructure. Without the coal operation, I am afraid the transfers to Svalbard will increase, and not decrease. In the long term, it is hardly realistic that research, education and tourism alone should be able to sustain full-year residence in a family society. In return, Great Norwegian must be allowed to adapt to a more business-friendly operation. This means that the extraction of coal in a quantity deemed necessary by the enterprise in relation to market and profitability must be allowed and can be done within a sound environment. This must also be used as a basis for the final decision of the Government and the Grand Norwegian Government on the further activity of Great Norske at Svalbard. New Ålesund and Longyearbyen have developed very positively as a national and international centre for relevant research and education. Cooperation between our four universities needs to be continued, and we should strive to invite international cooperation solutions that can initiate new activity and strengthen it already established. On the other hand, students and researchers will be guest workers at Svalbard, and will not be able to contribute to society's continuity and stability as coal operations do. Travel life has proved to be a very successful industry. It operates in an exciting but vulnerable environment, and it imposes great demands on both authorities and users. On the other hand, parts of Svalbard should remain open both to the outdoor life of the local population and to the needs of travel, and I do not see the need for further intensifications of a notable nature. It must not be that you must be either a researcher or a staff member of the Employment Agency in order to get outside the urban agglomeration of Longyearbyen, Barentsburg or Svea. One of the strongest incentives to stay at Svalbard is just nature. It is therefore necessary for the authorities to act in environmental protection matters in a way that is understood by the local population and travel life. Both have proved responsible in this way, and both are interested in taking care of the vulnerable nature of Svalbard. So this is where the government has strong co-players. The Longyearbyen has a history of ‘company-town’ and later the Sysselmann has had a superior authority that can hardly be reconciled with today’s Svalbard society or our general desire for democratic influence in the community. The changes from the time Svalbard was a closed society when the ice shut down Adventfjords, to now having up to several flights every day, must also have consequences for how the community is organised. Solid settlement requires naturally different influence from that required when coalworkers wintered, while the family was waiting for the mainland. The local population must therefore be given a greater responsibility to govern itself as a municipality, but within the limits required by the Svalbard Treaty. For example, the local self-government to be established must, as soon as possible, assume responsibility for primary and secondary schools. In the setting right we say that we believe the new year 2005-2006 must be the latest time. At all, the Right wishes to welcome a governance model for Longyearbyen, which gives the public more opportunity to influence the community. And I finally stress that it is necessary, more than possibly anywhere else in the Kingdom, to have constructive and constructive cooperation between the population, business and the public authorities of Svalbard. But it has to be done by letting people get more influence over their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e220	We have received a Svalbard message and an attitude from the Foreign Affairs Committee that puts Norwegian svalbard policy in a new perspective. Developments in Svalbard have also shown in many ways that the island community has improved qualitatively in recent years. Let me make a few points of view related to the setting and message. In the further work on our swallowing policy, the requirements for a comprehensive regulatory framework to strengthen government governance and control the activity of Svalbard should be formulated in such a way as to make the principles of leadership clearer. For example, legislation such as the Swedish Public Register Act, the Swedish Stock Exchange Act, the Swedish Constitution and the Accounting Act, as well as the Environmental Act, should be required to be introduced on Svalbard. The Committee should also consider, as it stands, the reorganisation of the Polar Committee, for example. with a view to making it a political coordinating body. The wording of annual targets used may sement the existing scheme and may not lead to the completion of annual targets as a general form of addition in the country, which has long been a wish of the Svalbard Council. It would have been desirable to re-assess the need for such additions, both on the basis of the desire for stability and not least on the basis of the costs of this scheme. Then to the environmental issues: Whenever it is said that all kinds of technical interventions outside the planning areas are to be approved by the Employment Officer, I believe that it must be understood that such interventions are to be dealt with in accordance with the applicable law and legislation. It must be obvious that the authority of the person having authority under a law and that State-owned companies must also be treated in accordance with the applicable legislation. In my opinion, the size should, for example: have no clear idea whether a mine should have one or more exits. In my opinion, the movement of the local population in the protection areas, which has also been an important issue, must continue to be based on the conditions established during the preparations for the establishment of the protection areas. This is an important basis for trust in management. The local population's movement, in my opinion, has no environmental impact that will be measurable, as opposed to a commercial travel life. It's worth noting that you go very far in detail also around the environmental issues, and I think the committee is doing quite right. However, there may be reason to warn against giving such powerful leadership before the Environmental Act is dealt with and adopted by the Storting, that it may exclude others and possibly better solutions. It could also be desirable to clarify more important questions of principle related to the Svalbard Mining Scheme. Although it is claimed from many teams that the Bergverk regime is a Norwegian regulation that we can do as we like, it is not possible to go beyond the Svalbard Treaty to make clear that we are to have this regulation. The question of the position of the Mining Scheme must therefore be clarified before proceeding with the Environmental Act. For its part, the Labour Party has worked for a long time to introduce a local democracy on Svalbard. Document No The 8-proposal that William Engseth and I presented, and that also includes: led to a decision by the Central Government of the Workers' Party in November 1997, providing a detailed model for the introduction of local democracy on Svalbard. I am pleased that the Government of Bondevik has followed up precisely these clear intentions in its Svalbard communication, which the Foreign Affairs Committee has also followed almost unanimously. However, the objectives of environmental protection must not restrict local democracy. I would like to stress that an objective of environmental protection that reduces our confidence in the ability and willingness of the local population to work for these objectives cannot be served. So a few words about Svalbard Societal drift. I think it is important that all issues relating to future financial obligations – commitments that will be incurred in the future by the company in the light of previous decisions – be clarified. Finally, the Longyearbyen, whether we like it or not, will be a Norwegian exhibition window. We must therefore be very careful about the picture we create of how a Norwegian community at Svalbard will work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e254	There is only one place in Norway where about 99 pst. The population is happy to live, and it is on Svalbard. It tells us that especially the Longyearbyen has evolved almost to what we want a community to be. It's a result of a wild policy. Ice-cold and gilded Svalbard doesn't have unemployment, people have good health, and most people are satisfied with the pay they have. Of course, the tax advantage of Svalbard plays an important role in the private economy, and social services have gradually become much better. I am thinking of kindergarten services, school services, further education, health and social services and leisure activities, even if they include: health and social services and preparedness should be further developed. Unlike continental communities, the population of Svalbard is not as enthusiastic about the introduction of local self-government. In fact, a clear majority believe that today's remote control from the mainland is very good. I believe, however, that it will be important to adopt a municipal system, where the Longyearbyen local government is primarily responsible for what we in the mainland call ‘municipal tasks’. This will give citizens influence and responsibility for their own community and control of the development of the island group, not least in relation to the major environmental objectives set by the State, but which, of course, the State still has to participate in and be responsible for. Nature and outdoor experiences are the main reason why so many people choose to live and live on Svalbard for decades, even though they know that Svalbard is not and should not be a life-cycle society. There will be many debates on this in the future. Int. S. No 11 for 1995-96 it is stated that Svalbard should be one of the world's best preserved wilderness areas and that environmental considerations within the framework of the Treaty should weigh heavily on conflicts. It is important to continue as a fundamental element in the future preservation of the island's unique wild-land nature. If we are to do this, it is important to put into practice the precautionary principle, so that long-term and fundamental values for humanity as natural areas remain as unaffected as possible. We know that the tourist traffic on Svalbard has increased considerably in recent years. This has both positive and negative sides. Positive because the majority have discovered this unique island group, and that research into unique environmental and natural conditions can actually be combined with tourism and created into an industry. This is also how Svalbard provides a greater diversity of industrial activities. But the developments that have occurred in snowmobile driving are worrying. I think there is a need for regulation that distinguishes between the off-road driving of residents and those who are arriving. The greatest increase in snowmobile traffic in recent years is the greatest result of the expansion of the tourism industry, and there should be a case for the cooperation bodies of the tourism industry how to avoid conflicts and, in particular, noise problems in the future. A way to go might be to make demands on low-noise snowmobiles, but I think you have to assess the tourist traffic as a whole. It will be important for the Government to present a protective plan for Svalbard which also covers areas where biodiversity may develop almost unaffected by human activities. In this context, Reindalen is one of the places with high protection values. When, in my opinion, the board of Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani has established that the Svea Nord project does not depend on road and powerline, Reindalen will point out as a very topical protection area when the government presents its Svalbard protection plan. Coal drift and Svalbard belong together as well in the future. However, an overall assessment of coal production is important as a tool in the sulphurisation policy. This is in order to achieve greater flexibility, not least in relation to volume take-offs per. years, but also in relation to the environment. We must never forget that Norway manages this archipelago worldwide.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e281	At the bottom of this debate it must be allowed to state that it is perhaps the most distinctive feature of it is the extensive degree of consensus that exists around the main points of Norwegian Svalbard administration. It must also be possible for Norway to be credible in the exercise of the sovereignty of Svalbard in line with the provisions of the Svalbard Treaty. Within this main area, Norway now stresses that we are prepared to maintain this sovereignty with the necessary weight. At the same time, we do it in an international society, where this sovereignty is not controversial. And of course, we also have obligations to do that, including: by consistently enforcing Norwegian legislation where applicable, including for Svalbard, in a way that is satisfied with all the signatories. But there is no issue today. Then, too, the Svalbard community is going to live on as a living society. It sets requirements for conversion. And those who have long experience in this society see how it has evolved from an almost one-sided mining community to a society that today has many bones to stand on. There may be nuances in what may be the individual’s — including the individual’s — perspectives on the development of individual economic pathways. For one thing, I would like to say that some of the most exciting things are happening on the research page, among other things. Norway has a unique opportunity to be at the forefront of global research in the polar regions. At the same time, however, Norway has the opportunity to invite research environments from different countries so that research activities as generated on Svalbard also become a form of international bridge construction — and in an area that is uncontroversial. Of course, this does not happen in a vacuum. Maintaining the unique nature of the polar regions is of great importance precisely for modern polar research to be powerful. For this reason, I am pleased that a unanimous committee focuses on the management of the Svalbard area according to ecological criteria and the precautionary principle. One thing is the commitment we have to future generations to preserve coherent Arctic areas, another thing is what this has to say for the environments we have, not least on the research side, today. And there is hardly any doubt that other food routes that can be under expansion – there may be a tourism during expansion, and there may be a mining during expansion – can, if there are no clear rules for development here, threaten the very basis of environmental protection that we must have on Svalbard. And that's where the whereabouts principle comes in. For my part, I want to make myself a lawyer for the idea that both the development of tourism and the development of possible further coal mining must be seen in the light of this principle. This means that the impact assessments are in place, and are in place throughout, before we take new steps in both the Storting, but also other authorities are going to take their stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e296	In this debate, the sovereignty of Svalbard and our role in this several times has been established. It is enshrined in the Svalbard Treaty. It gives us a responsibility, and we're going to take that responsibility, that's the full political agreement. The economic development of Svalbard is particularly important if we are to have a living community that can be as well on its own, but it is important that one then gets an economic development where the community gets more bones to stand on. What's happy is that this development is now beginning to happen. The coal industry has always been there, we've had a tiring development in travel and tourism, we've had a similar development in research and challenge, and we see how necessary it is to have service companies to provide service to these companies and businesses. What we should also be aware of is that Norway – and, to some extent, other countries – holds marine resources in the seas around the island group, and they should also be provided services by enterprises that can again rot in the Svalbard community. I want to mention that I was at Svalbard in 1992, and I was there in the spring, in 2000. What hit me was actually the big changes; in 1992, when I felt a pessimism, I felt this year that it was optimism. This is a change that has occurred in a very short time, and I also felt that it wasn't just me who made a sense that there had been a change here. This change, I think, is important for us to take care of, so that one has the possibility to preserve the Svalbard community for those who are going to work there, but also for the purpose of the role of Norway in international society through the Svalbard Treaty. It is important for a community, it is on the mainland or on Svalbard, that there are several legs to stand on. Still, I didn't think we could get away from the fact that it's the coal industry that per person. Today is the most important industry. It can be profitable, and therefore I think it is important that Great Norwegian be able to concentrate on this operation, as planned. Of course, we'll come back to that in later matters that we're going to deal with here in Stortinget. The same applies to a disputed theme, e.g. way from Longyearbyen to Svea. Personally, I think it's a good idea, but of course we have to take environmental considerations. We have to take care of the environment, it is also a political deal. But a sensible interaction between industries must be possible, a sensible management must also be possible, even if environmental and economic considerations are taken into account. The sphere is also important for this society. And my impression is that the school there is a good school. I can shoot in that I was allowed in our school to teach three hours at the school, and it seemed that the school had good equipment, good teaching skills and a good rental. What's happening at UNIS is also exciting. As several of the speakers today have mentioned, Norway can take the lead here. Then we have this with the development of democracy. I feel that it is right to do so. The Svalbard Council's plural calls for, simply to take it easy, and that one, which has also been proposed by the majority of the Committee, is a bit cautious with the continuation. It takes time, and many things need to be adapted. That's why I also think that one should be especially careful about turning the Svalbard community into a life-cycle society. I thought the setting was balanced and good, with a particularly high degree of agreement. This will provide a good basis for further development of the Svalbard community for those who live and work there, and for the responsibility imposed on Norway by the Svalbard Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e315	The principle of sovereignty and good environmental management must be the starting point for the swallowing policy. It also said Tom Thoresen in his post, an article I can join in its entirety. «Coal drift and Svalbard belong together as well,» said Torny Pedersen, and it has, of course, been, historically, coal drift the heaviest industrial interest and that which has been the basis for the settlement of Svalbard. So the question of whether in the future it still has to be so that this is the heaviest basis. The most exciting future perspective is in the field of research, that's where SV is thought to have to deploy increased activity to strengthen settlement. The problem with some of the arguments that I think I've heard today around the coal industry is that you think that the Svalbard community should in a way be economically profitable in itself, that is to say, it's going to go around. If you think that way, it's clear that you have to expand the coal industry, you have to get the coal industry to go without state subsidies, and then you get a kind of logic that rolls off and goes off. SV's starting point is not that Svalbard should be profitable. The SV's starting point is that we should have a sovereignty and good environmental management on Svalbard, and that the Svalbard community should be a good society to live in for those who live there. I noticed that the Minister of Justice said in his statement that the plans for extended operation had also come a bit abruptly in the department, and she signaled a somewhat more waiting attitude to this than some representatives have done. I'm glad, because there's no doubt that this way of saying it, that just we get a lot going here now, and we can do this without state subsidies, has been an important driving force behind some of the posts here today. In isolation, there is an understandable position, but for the future, SV’s view is that environmental concerns must come first. It also says a unanimous committee, that when there is a conflict between the environment and industry, environmental concerns should come first. But it seems a little bit like it's when there's a whole local conflict we're talking about. The question then is whether we can also put environmental concerns ahead of business interests when the coal industry and the climate problems are included in this picture. So far, we have made it clear with varying degrees on the mainland, and I believe that we must have such a perspective on the swallowing policy as well. Of the speeches I have heard today, it seems to me that you have a very sound view of this with regard to the local conflicts, but that you don't have the same lead to the var- attitude and the same attitude that the environment should come first when you expand the perspective to become global and not local. So the Environment Minister said that one of her starting points was that Norwegian research communities would become attractive partners for international actors when it comes to research. It was a signal I was very happy to hear. I believe that this is a bad perspective, and I therefore want Norway to have a relatively ambitious policy in this area, whether or not it has to be done within this precautionary principle, taking into account the local impact of such activities on Svalbard. But I think that we haven't really seen the importance of the research projects that you can get into at Svalbard, and that there are natural assumptions that make it possible to really acquire research projects that can have great significance both in themselves and for Norway and the Svalbard community as research sites, and for Svalbard as part of Norway as a research nation. With regard to the development of local democracy, I also agree with those who believe that the Svalbard community signals that they want local democracy, but perhaps at a slightly different pace. It also connects SV to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e335	Then I think it only remains to be thanked for the good and wide debate on the swallowing policy of this century. The overall objectives have been at the centre of the debate. The exercise of sovereignty has been very central, then that the environmental challenge is far-reaching in relation to our swallowing policy, and also that we have business and business activities, a settlement and a local democracy that we are going to try to develop in the best possible way. Of course, there has been some nuances in the debate, but I feel that, in general, there has been solid support for the firm and consistent squalor policy that both the previous and the current government have put forward. I am also pleased that so many have followed the debate from diplomats and from the gallery. I believe that people from Svalbard – although they have not been given the opportunity to participate in the debate, which they might have liked to do – have been present and know what we have been talking about, can be a good basis for further dialogue on development. In addition, 100 pst. by Svalbard's press was present all the time. That suggests good reports in the Svalbard post. Governments have met in the vast majority of areas. I actually don't think I've heard a single area where they're not going to meet the Stortinge. The Minister for the Environment has said that the environmental law and proposals for a protection plan for biologically productive areas will come next year. She also underlined that the message that the environment should weigh more heavily in the event of conflicts will be followed up in line with the precautionary principles. Local democracy will now be intensively developed in practice and will be introduced by the turn of the year 2001-2002. The committee has not explicitly mentioned this, but we have always had that very moment in our head. The SSD will be transferred as quickly as possible to the local government, but with the reservations expressed by the Committee, we are aware that the energy network and the utility network are in some poor condition and that a solution has to be found in the area of upgrading and operation, so that, in the future, a satisfactory energy supply will have to be achieved before the local government assumes responsibility for the energy network and the supply network. There will be elections to the first local government in the autumn of 2001, and the first parliamentary term will be two years, but then the Committee and the Grand Duchy expect the next period to be four years. The supervisory body to control the various radar and earth stations is established but needs the provision of professional competence in order to be able to function properly. Here again, we expect the Council of State to make sure that this supervisory body comes into operation as soon as possible. There has also been a positive signal that the dialogue between Great Norwegian and the Government should be improved and strengthened so that the basis for the possible permanent operation of Svea Nord can be established on the best possible basis. Svalbard Research Park has received a lot of credit during the day, and government councils have clearly understood that Stortinget is impatient that the establishment of this research park must begin. Furthermore, it has been perceived that we want better coordination of sage policy, so that the position of the Polar Committee will be reviewed, and that it will be sought to strengthen its coordinating role. All in all, I believe that this morning and this evening the Stortinget has done a good job for sovereignty and for the development of Svalbard and the Svalbard community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e365	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3417]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e379	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines with up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e390	I'll start by correcting something that's in the setting on page 7. The sixth paragraph of the second column is replaced by the following: «In the opinion of the Committee, the Norwegian Tourist Council must be the driving force behind this.» The Norwegian economy is facing many challenges in the future. In order to maintain the level of well-being, the value creation of the mainland economy needs to increase significantly, and by focusing on product development, international profiling, branding, education and empowerment and environmental adaptation, the Committee will therefore facilitate new growth in the tourism industry throughout the country. In the attitude of the travel news we are discussing today, there is a strong political consensus that this growing industry deserves to be taken seriously and given its rightful place in the value creation of business. The industry is currently facing strong international competition for travellers. Brandware construction and marketing of Norway abroad will also be important for meeting this competition. The Committee agrees on the priority of this area. The tourism industry faces challenges in the field of new technologies. An increasing number of people use the Internet to learn about destinations. Purchases and sales of travel over the Internet have seen strong growth. The Committee therefore wants a comprehensive presentation of Norway through the Internet, a national gateway to Norwegian travel life. Many small travel businesses need to be able to exploit new technologies effectively. Competitiveness and research are another area that will be important for industry success. It is therefore necessary to develop binding cooperation between educational institutions and industry. Access to people with a high level of competence in travel is also very important. The Committee therefore considers that the tourism industry has a potential for further growth. In St.meld. No 41 for 1997-98,nutrition policy into the 21st century, dealt with developments in industrial policy. The principles laid down there also provide a framework for policy towards the tourism industry. In the Travel Life Communication, we address more specifically the challenges and framework conditions in order to increase profitability in this industry. The conditions of transport are of great importance for Norwegian travel. The Communication does not discuss the issues related to the framework conditions for transport in Norway, but the Government will present a separate Communication on the national transport plan. The Committee has stressed that travel lives in this context must be included in the discussions in the plan. The Government shall also present a separate VAT notification, under which the charging conditions for the tourism industry will be considered. In addition, a communication on outdoor life is being worked on, where the conditions for the use of nature and land are to be discussed in more detail. This Communication will also have an impact on the development of travel life, in particular in relation to the environmental policy challenges. Travel life activities worldwide are increasing. This is due, inter alia, to: increased interrelationship between countries and the development of trade and investment across national borders. Furthermore, the establishment of social and cultural links between the world’s population and significant growth in wealth has driven a large growth in travel. Travel activities are considered to be among the largest and fastest growing industries in the world. Travel life has also provided a basis for significant activities in Norway. The value creation and the jobs it has provided have been of great importance. Travel life that includes both overnight accommodation, catering, transport, communication and experiences contributes several billion dollars to gross domestic product and employment networks probably 150 000 employees. The industry employs much more than, for example, the combined primary industries. Despite significant growth in travel and turnover, a large proportion of Norwegian travel businesses have a relatively weak economy. If working and investing in the tourism industry is to be attractive in the future, profitability needs to be increased. With the narrow labour market facing Norwegian enterprises, competition for labour is greater than for a long time. The least profitable enterprises will in the long run lose in this competition. Travel life's potential for development depends to a large extent on the ability of businesses to meet the main challenge, which is increasing profitability. Recruitment problems in the industry include: the context in which the industry is not perceived to offer good enough pay conditions. The profitability of enterprises is also important for their ability to compete in international competition. There are many areas that have an impact on the potential for development of the tourism industry. Economic and income and labour policy are examples of areas that define some of the fundamental prerequisites for the competitiveness of travel. Others are prices, interest rates and exchange rates, as well as wage and cost developments. The Committee assumes that the Government must coordinate policy in such a way as to support the objective of increased value creation. The basis for profitability lies in the ability to develop cost-effective, environmentally friendly and attractive products that tourists demand. This is necessary in order to succeed in international competition for tourists. Product development is primarily the responsibility of travel businesses. However, the Committee has underlined the importance of giving priority to product development in Norwegian travel. The importance of quality and customer orientation needs to be increased, and public efforts at both central and local level need to support this. Continuous development work on individual destinations is important. Enterprises and industry must coordinate themselves and find appropriate forms of cooperation that ensure long-term and commitment. Although companies agree on the need for cooperation measures and forms of cooperation, experience shows that access to financing of the common good is often inadequate and unstable. To this end, the number of committees asked the Government to consider further developing a «tourist tax» scheme. A prerequisite is that the scheme becomes self-financing and is managed by the industry itself. In addition to offering attractive and comprehensive products, travel life must work actively to become visible in the international market and also focus on the ability of the Nordics to travel in their own country. Increasing competition requires innovation and coordination of both public and private efforts. The Committee considers that funding for the joint profiling and marketing of Norway as an interesting travel destination should be given priority. The public funds provided to the Norwegian Tourism Council must be more focused on the branding of Norwegian travel life products. Experience from other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, Denmark, shows that this has an effect. Everyone knows the term ‘It is nice to be Norwegian in Denmark’. It may also be useful to be Danish in Norway. The need for increased investment in overall profiling and branding is justified by changes in communications with the market, which are much more direct to the consumer than in the past. A long-term and targeted approach to marketing work will be ensured by concentrating efforts on segments and markets yielding the highest return for the Norwegian tourism industry. In order to follow the attention generated by branding, it is essential that the customer has access to more detailed information on different travel life products. In this context, the Internet plays an increasingly important role. Marking shall contribute to creating interest and attention in our country, and once the interest is created, the Internet portal shall be the tool that provides concrete information and opportunities for the sale of travel life products and destinations. The Communication sets out in more detail how competence and skills in a broad sense become an increasingly important competitive factor in the tourism industry as well. The availability of skilled workers, the ability to update quickly and to renew professional and professional skills at all levels is a major challenge here. The availability of labour is one of the main problems facing travel businesses today. The different parts of travel life also have different skills needs. Reference is made to the fact that formal competence is low compared to other industries. Vocational training, apprenticeship schemes and higher education are all public intervention areas. Since there are many people in travel who do not have secondary education, continuing education could be of great importance. In the field of research, the aim of providing knowledge to provide the basis for increased profitability and value creation and highlighting the importance of social conditions, it is important to disseminate the results well. The Committee looks forward to the strategic decisions that the Government will take in the follow-up to our position. With the expectations created, a follow-up to the notification will require state financial and professional support during the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e453	In the tourism industry, cooperation is important in order to succeed. The strong emergence of chains and various cooperation agreements is justified by this need. The tourism industry includes many small and geographically dispersed enterprises and a few large ones. The Progress Party sees that in the future international marketing will have a greater impact on the tourist directly through branding and information and less impact on the tourist through the intermediary. International marketing is not currently sufficiently targeted at the construction of brand names and there are insufficient profiling promotions for Norway as a tourist destination. However, international promotion of travel destinations requires a long-term relationship building both against the travel industry and the consumer. It is also suitable for concern about the low earnings in the industry in recent years. The tourism industry in Norway has experienced lower growth than elsewhere in Europe. The lead party considers that this is due to the overall level of taxation in Norway, which is particularly severe in the tourism sector. Then it does not seem that the time has come for additional charges. The party to the progress will therefore emphatically state that the imposition of VAT on tourism services is a highly inappropriate instrument if it is to be a major field of activity in the coming years. Any possible VAT reform will particularly affect hard farms in the districts and pig-grown areas. The Progress Party also believes that there will now be a strong commitment to marketing in the relevant foreign environments and that it is therefore important for the Norwegian Tourism Council to have a substantial increase in its budgets. In this context, the Progress Party will point out that campaigns used abroad will have little impact on the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The Progress Party also considers that knowledge of trends, preferences and market perception of Norwegian travel life products must be disseminated to businesses, as this is important as a basis for market-adapted product development and quality improvement. It seems that the Norwegian Tourist Council today lacks the competence to fulfil this function. Therefore, such an environment of competence needs to be developed either under the authority of the Norwegian Tourism Council or other professional environment. The Progress Party also sees the need for an embellishment of rigorous Norwegian labour market regulations. Here, useful incentives will include increased access to voluntary overtime and access to temporary employment, which can address the shortage of labour during hectic periods, which is once again seasonally paid. The Progress Party is also concerned with the challenges facing disabled customers in product development. We believe that it is important to have access to products and travel destinations that meet the needs of people with disabilities. In this context, we believe that it is appropriate to consider introducing tax depreciation for investments that facilitate the conditions of the disabled. In addition, we believe that public authorities have overall responsibility for ensuring good communication to the tourism industry. It is quite obvious that the lack of road transport leads to poor accessibility and unnecessary long and expensive travel routes. The national transport plan, to be treated for the autumn, is a string in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e472	Travel life is about caring about people, and some trend researchers believe that we are going into the time of emotions where just travel life and the human care given here, which you can get as guests and visitors to different places in the world, becomes an important part of the future society. This is an industry of strong growth, and it is an industry that can be shaped into a major environmental destroyer or into a part of a sustainable economy and a human society. The central government provided the travel life message before Christmas because there is a need for a joblift to make Norwegian travel life an important growth industry in Norway. The challenge is to do this our way and take advantage of the advantages we have, and to put this into a development context also for communities and regions, for industries and for culture. I assume that travel life is not a unique industry, but a system of different industries and functions that together meet the traveler's needs and give the traveller an experience. I am concerned that the tourism infrastructure is both functions and physical element, arranged to meet the needs of the visitor in a place. This infrastructure is, in principle, not profitable in itself, but forms the basis for the marketing and development of tourism-related enterprises. The infrastructure also contributes greatly to increasing the provision of services both for the local population and for those arriving. I am of the opinion that the tourism infrastructure can be said to be the foundation wall that builds up the tourism activity within an area. And because travel life is intended to meet human needs such as living, eating and having activity, there is sometimes a big coincidence between the traveler's and community's interests. At other times, we have to admit that there are conflicts. In a development context, we need to find the good interaction between these interests. Then we'll also get the best travel products, and we'll get the best community. The Christian People's Party is concerned that travel life is a very important sector in District Norway that has a significant impact both on employment and on the development of other business. I would like to stress that the interaction between travel and culture is important product-related, but also in developing the basis for strengthening rural settlements and development. The Economic and Social Committee has also highlighted this with nature and culture as the main profile of Norway as a tourist destination. I would also like to highlight the multifunctional role of agriculture, which benefits travel very much. Agriculture makes Norway beautiful, with green meadows, apple flowers, cereal fields, etc., and Norway is considered a very beautiful country in the European context. I am also concerned that in this context we will take care of the family businesses we have in travel. Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are a major undergrowth and are an important part of Norwegian tourism. It is important that these are provided, and here I refer to the business message and the work done there. I would also like to highlight the challenges that lie in the different parts of travel life. The large hotels have increased competition due to chain formation and internationalisation, while small hotels, guesthouses, campsites, cabins, etc. are smaller family businesses facing other challenges and targeting another segment of the market. We must therefore not set up these overnight establishments against each other. In order to have a good decision-making basis both nationally and regionally, it is very important that we categorize these overnight establishments in a good way. And in order to get accurate statistics, it's also important that we categorize these into more and more subtle degrees. Among other things, we had: Visits by the German Tourist Committee, and they had 80 categories – I think it was – in their travel lives. So more fine-tuning is important – also to target the tools. I'm very busy getting the increased value creation travel industry actually represents. Here, I think it's important to use research funds to produce the actual total impact of travel life. I think there are significant interactions between travel and other sectors. If we look at trends and challenges for Norwegian travel, the big challenge is to increase profitability. There are several factors that are important. The first is to increase your skills in the industry, so that we can keep what we promise in marketing. It's profiling us and primarily using our nature proximity, profiling it with culture and nature. It is to bet on brand construction, and it is to do a good job when VAT reform comes – it becomes important for travel life – and it is also to facilitate infrastructure, both in terms of IT and transport. In nature and culture, I would like to draw up the agricultural message that was presented at the beginning of May. It is important to sell nature experience and cultural experience, and food and food culture are thus a very important area. Many small and medium-sized enterprises use the food and food experience as one of their competitive advantages, and in rural tourism, which is often linked to agriculture, they deliberately use food in marketing. In this respect, the Committee believes that the potential is likely to be greater than what we are exploiting today, and increased production of local specialities and niche products can increase value creation and exploit tourism’s demand for such products. The Committee has also stressed the importance of cooperation between the tourism industry and primary producers and the food industry. I also want to show that there are several trends that lead to increased demand for travel life services. I will draw out a green wave and a very demand for pristine nature. This is where our great potential lies. In the case of brand construction, it is very exciting to see what can come out of the initiative and the assignment that the Norwegian Tourist Council has received. I think it's very important to get a superstructure when we profile Norway, because we've been plagued with a little bit too fragmented marketing. But at the same time, we should be happy with the diversity that is within travel life, and perhaps be a little careful in structuring. People in these small businesses are going to take advantage of IT technology, and it's very exciting to see how this turns out, not least for the small businesses, who have often not benefited so well from the public marketing that has been done through NORTRA, because it has been required so much self-help. But we have to admit that we are facing challenges of recruitment. It's going to be a competition for the kids. At the same time, travel is the industry for many of their first meetings with the workplace, and travel is also a highly seasonal industry where many young people get their first summer job. In this context, it is important to provide young people with positive experience and to choose it as a route of education. Unfortunately, it also appears that access to finance is inadequate and unstable, and here the message has taken the opportunity to assess tourist taxes. If the industry shows an interest in launching such systems, it may be useful to obtain better and more stable funding for joint actions. That's probably a pretty important problem in the future. Very much of the key to success in increasing profitability is to succeed in targeted marketing and to reach Norwegian consumers for Norway as the Nordic countries and win the international niches on marketing profiled by nature and culture — especially nature. With regard to the national portal on the Internet, it will also be exciting to see how it works. I think it might be a very important part of the bet. But it is also important that we in Stortinget follow up with money for this bet, because, as I said, very much of the key is in marketing. I'm also busy getting out the slightly weaker organized part of travel life. There are a lot of opportunities and a lot of assets for creating new products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e510	Not all aspects affecting the conditions of the tourism industry are covered by this Communication. There are many other messages and things that come to Stortinget, which are very important. I am thinking of the national transport level and of the VAT reform. There are many other issues that are important for this industry but are not addressed in this setting. However, the industry we are dealing with today is an industry of strong growth, and Norway has natural prerequisites for taking its relative share of such an increase. The industry itself must take responsibility, but also from a political point of view, we have a responsibility to take on our relative growth. The industry itself has to take responsibility for product development, and I believe, as it says, that developing the breadth of product supply will be important in the future. Quality and customer orientation will become more important in the coming period. This should be emphasised by the industry if it wishes to have a robust industry that will succeed in increasing competition. Public, both local and national, must have the same perspective, namely quality and customer orientation. But our responsibility is to ensure that the tourism industry has a framework that is at least as good as in the countries with which we are going to compete. The natural benefits we have, with fjords, mountains and clean nature, are not sufficient. The cost level of the industry will be crucial to success. In this area, the Stortinget has direct power of decision and will affect the competitiveness of this industry. Fees on e.g. fuel, air tickets, alcohol, labour, overnight VAT, tourist tax, etc. etc. contribute to the premise of the competitiveness that this industry will also have. I believe that the introduction of VAT on overnight stays will be the worst estimate against Norwegian travel life that we can make. The industry has no reason to be reassured by what is stated in the report on these things. We know what happened in Sweden when VAT was introduced overnight. We also know that there will be major regional differences in Norway if we do, and we know which districts will win and which will lose out on this. District Norway will definitely lose out on such an introduction. I would strongly warn against imposing VAT on overnight stays. We know what the negative effects will be. We've seen what's happened in other countries, not least in Sweden. I had really hoped that this matter of VAT on overnight stays and passenger transport would have been settled in ours. The uncertainty that exists, we know, reduces the implementation of investment plans that exist. At the latest today, a letter came from a single company that pointed to the current uncertainty. So I want to encourage the Government to raise itself in the calistheans and get done what should be done. Some words about tourist tax. Let me say it quite briefly and brutally: I am opposed to introducing new taxes at the top of all the taxes and charges this industry already has to bear. Regardless of the tourist product, one will see that there are no countries in Europe that have as much of the price of taxes and taxes as we have in Norway. I am aware of the noble thoughts behind the tax being earmarked for measures to promote the industry. It will probably also be done – at least in the first few years. Then it becomes like it does, it replaces a public engagement. I am willing to continue to prioritise branding of Norway internationally – without tourist tax. The stability of government grants for international marketing is underlined in the notification. The revised national budget responds to the Government’s stability date as regards stability. I understand the purpose of tourist tax. The notification and suspension indicate that the Norwegian Tourism Council will in future be the body through which the government grants for international marketing will be channelled. Norway’s Tourist Council will launch a strategy and concretely specify the way in which in the future branding of Norway is to be carried out internationally. The outlined strategy is a point of view as well as the right parts. The biggest challenge in this industry is profitability. Obviously, when an industry has 4.3 pst. GDP, but at the same time 6.7 pst. in terms of employment, there is a simple parameter which means that the industry has a low profitability. The industry has overcapacity. This means that increased marketing is the place to put the pressure. Because with the capacity we have, we can deal with a much larger proportion of tourists, and we can make better use of the capacity and raise the profitability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e529	The travel message has been interesting to work with. We've got a lot of dedicated recordings. There has been a great deal of joy over the notification, over the positive signals in the notification and over the message's emphasis on the good opportunities. At the same time, the Committee has been met with considerable impatience. There has been a wish that the message should be more specific in terms of its action proposals. There has been a desire for more obligatory opinions on increasing government appropriations, and it has been stressed that industry needs predictable and stable framework conditions in terms of financial support schemes, in terms of taxes and charges, and in terms of transport offers. The Committee has shown a great deal of understanding of this impatience in its position. The Committee shall have, inter alia: to say that the importance of the tourism industry is not adequately reflected in the priorities of the authorities in business policy. Today’s paradox is that, at the same time as the Committee writes this, the Government is making a major cut in the revised national budget in terms of appropriations for the Norwegian Tourism Council. With this, I stress that the Centre Party is serious about the comment that has been referred to here. The main challenge for tourism is to increase profitability. What has to be done to do that has to be done on the basis of the assumptions we have here in the country. We have good assumptions, but we also have our disadvantages in terms of geography, distances and high cost levels. Of course, we cannot have a higher level of fees than neighbouring countries, and we have to make sure that those who work in this industry have a level of pay that makes recruitment good enough. We have to assume that the wages are also going to increase for them. We simply cannot compete in our country with foreigners in terms of the low price of the offers we have. We have to compete in another way. The Committee has a realistic approach to this, and it also has the industry. These are labour-intensive industries in a country with an increased cost level. The need to improve the profitability of businesses is an objective of the Committee, according to the opinion on this industry. That's what the Center Party thinks is positive. What the industry has to compete for is the offer we can offer: clean and adventurous beautiful nature, good place and Norwegian culture. Then we can't have a mass tourism that could ruin this either. One of the concrete initiatives presented in the Communication is the Norway portal on the Internet. In particular, the smallest players will benefit from the new marketing and booking technologies. As rapporteur, I have witnessed all the great bets on many and expensive brochures and the problems of finding the right receiver for those brochures after having been funded with the support of municipalities, counties and SND. Now more of the money can be spent on giving good offers and good experiences to the tourists. The brand name Norway can be built together in a much more efficient way. Then we have to keep an eye on whether this investment in branding via the Internet is strong enough, whether we have to invest even more, whether it works both abroad and domestically in the relationship between large and small players – and not least the tiny players who actually dominate in offering accommodation in Norway. There has been a huge effort in recent years to meet the needs of tourists locally. I am thinking about what the municipalities have done to expand tourist information in the form of posters and guidance, offices for information and also experiences. I believe that what has been done in recent years provides a basis for great growth, and I'm pretty sure the municipalities want to continue to help. And in the industry itself there are a lot of actors. It remains to be found how joint tasks and common resources will be financed locally in the future. A tourist tax I think is a good solution, and a voluntary tourist tax, as the notice adds, is so absolute to prefer. I hope now that the travel industry gives a quick feedback to the Government that such a joint effort is desired – an investment in an improved economy in the future in industry is starting a good spiral. Finally, a few words about a slight disagreement in the Committee on Commercial Exploitation of the Mark-out. I believe it is obvious that the landowner has the first right to such activity and that the landowner has to be asked. It's just as natural that the All-Man Court gives us all the right to free movement in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e550	This is an attitude that is marked by a great deal of consensus, agreement on the importance of travel life for the country, not least for the districts – the considerable employment it gives us, and the income we receive. We all agree on the significant potential that still lies in the industry. It is an attitude that is marked by good intentions and wants to develop the importance of tourism. It is important to be aware of the qualities Norway has in attracting foreigners to Norway, the experiences they are applying for. They don't seek sun and heat, to a small extent also the hectic life of the big city. They may be looking for natural experiences. They are looking for an environment that is not hectic — proximity to a cultural environment characterized by the relationship with nature's elements. In many areas, tourism has taken on the traditional role of primary industries as the main economic pathway. However, primary industries are an important basis for the attractiveness of these areas, because what travellers are seeking is not to meet other travellers. Therefore, the combination of living primary industries and a travel life offer that can offer alternative experiences based on small, flexible travel businesses is one of our strengths. That's why I have a fear of chain dominance in the hotel industry. They may have their economies of scale, but they often lack locality. The chains have their strength in profiling and marketing. That's why it's important for the small units that we find national ways to market ourselves that capture the small ones, capture what's special about us, that makes us exciting and slightly different. It is important that there be a common marketing, so that individual offers do not break the neck of reaching the markets in a desperate competition to conquer travellers from the neighbor. We also have to be able to sell niches in relation to the main current. Perhaps it comes under the theme of branding. To give an example: the fast route is one of our products that are incorporated into large markets – a brand, the world's most beautiful maritime journey. In addition, it overwhelms a number of coastal communities with revenues. We have contributed in this room to the renewal, a capacity expansion, of the fleet. I have often asked: what are you going to do with the old boats when the renewal is completed? If we knew them, the answer has been – for a long time. They're not profitable, they don't fit into the concept. They're not floating hotels. But recently I saw in the paper that they consider keeping them and selling them under their own brand, the classic voyage of the sea, a concept for those who want to travel by boat, in closer contact with the elements of the sea than in the cruise ships – just as there are too many winter holidays to stay at the hotel, rustle little ski tours or drive a little alpine and take a dinner in the hotel's dining room and a trip in the bar afterwards, for others there are strerbarian journeys, overnight in the snowholes. We have the opportunity to provide a wide range of travellers with a relaxing holiday. We have the opportunity to provide an offer to narrow niche groups seeking more demanding experiences. Our brands may be defective, but most of them relate to our nature, our cultural environment. We should have better assumptions than most people to make green tourism a brand. I have selected a conflict in the configuration. The majority of the Committee emphasises the importance of private ownership and the rule of law. I would like to stress, for my part, that one of Norway's peculiarities is the right of all people, that we are not walled within the fences of private property – a freedom that they have not fled from in countries with significantly greater population density than we do, and that does not have access to the same natural glory as we do. I am convinced that the rights of all people are a quality for us. In the setting, the promotion of our roads is taken up. Yes, there is a problem when it comes to cars and caravans on narrow roads in Lofoten, they do not dare to drive on the edge of the road either. However, travel needs are not necessarily compatible with everyday life’s needs. In travel life, mountain passes, which is a bad shoe for business transport needs when winter connections come, can be a good travel product, rather than looking at Norway from the inside, not to mention how much better tourism product vacation trips on Norwegian fjords are compared to driving under the fjords – assuming that you do not have to wait for hours on ferry because of queues. But that's what we're going to get back to when we're going to deal with the National Transport Plan. We need to be aware of the problem. We also come back to VAT on services. That's why I'm not going to express my private views now, nor am I going to include it in our group when we're going to deal with the VAT system as a whole. I'm also a little surprised that the majority emphasizes the SND's important function, when the majority in this room next week is probably going to rage the instruments for the rest of the year. It's not related. Finally, I would like to remind you of the following: an environmentally friendly and sustainable development is our main competitive advantage. Our travel life stamps are attached to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e583	No one in this room disagrees that Norway is a beautiful country that is worth spending time experiencing and discovering. This applies both to foreign travellers and to all of us who are tourists in their own country. Unfortunately, beauty is not enough in itself — at least not for those industries that in a broad sense constitute the travel industry in Norway. Traveling around the world today can choose from the top shelf among more and more, better-organised and efficiently marketed destinations. Competition between countries continues to persist, and many Norwegian travel companies have already felt it on their bodies. Even after growth both in travel and turnover in the 1990s, a significant proportion of Norwegian tourism businesses have a weak economy and, in particular, districts. We also see alarming signs of traffic failures in important markets such as Germany this summer. The main message of the Centre Government's Travel Life Communication is that improved profitability and competitiveness are essential for the success of tourism industries in the years to come. Enterprises that are unable to do so will fall short because they are unable to attract labour or investment. The ability to develop tourism products market demand, and cooperation to create more powerful destinations, are the industries themselves that have to make the preparations. However, the public can also make some contribution to facilitating travel, and in the Communication, the central government has identified some important strategies. I want to say on behalf of the Left that we are very excited about whether the new government is prepared to follow up these strategies. There is so little consistency between the connection to the notification provided by the Workers' Party in the suspension and the reduced travel life rate proposed by the Government in the revised national budget. The left is set to give priority to funds for the joint international profiling of Norway as a travel destination through the Norwegian Tourist Council, in line with the leaders of the Travel Life Communication. Exploitation of the potential of the growing international markets requires the use of powerful methods. Only long-term, targeted and concentrated branding can provide an adequate basis for industry’s efforts and performance. For small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, which are not linked to chains, it is important to be able to benefit from a brand name known to the world. We have to add to our products the small extra that is decisive in order for Norway to be chosen in preference to other destinations. Thus, in the budget of the year, the central government began with a boost in the Norwegian Tourism Council. It was particularly important to give the financial start-up shot to build a common web portal for Norwegian travel life under the auspices of the Tourist Council. By means of three-four keystrokes, it shall be possible to obtain tailor-made Norway holidays at any time of the day, and it shall be possible for travel businesses to connect booking and payment activities on the network. The portal will in many ways be the chance of small businesses and districts profiling internationally through an explosive medium, and where the entire 60 pst. network users want to use the network to find travel information. An overall committee has agreed with the central government in these strategies. Then it is almost incredible to experience that the government half way in the budget year will reduce the appropriations allocated to the Norwegian Tourist Council. Forgotten is promises of long-termity and predictability. Where does the content of the Government’s wording of accession become more internationally oriented than the previous government? The left warns against weakening the framework conditions for travel. While the Workers' Party and the Left and the other Centre Parties stand together in the Committee to establish the central function of SND in the development of profitable travel products, the Government proposes the strongest and most dramatic cut in the SND arrangements ever in the middle of a budgetary year. If such a cut is realized, it will also be noticed for the travel businesses, as for all other innovators in our country. I hope the Norwegian Tourist Council is not right when they point out that the revised national budget alerts economic unforeseeability and when they also fear greater political unforeseeability. The left shall make it possible for the travel life message to be followed up and for Norwegian travel life to have the profitability, competence and impact enough to become a growth industry for Norway in the future. I really hope that we won't fight it, but with the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e604	St.meld. No 15 for 1999-2000 on profitable and competitive tourism industries and the Inst. S. No 209 on the same subject is very important for all parts of the country. Just what is missing in Norway has been one of the first monks in the country. We have been able to offer both weather and weather, dark times and midnight sun, mountains and fjords. It has always given us dear crowns and jobs, not least for women both in town and in town. For me coming from Hallingdal, the largest travel life region outside of Oslo, the signal of tourist failure is 7 pst. with regard to foreign tourism to date this year, a serious signal of changes in the pattern of travel life. The consequences may be large, but the challenges are still to be addressed. I share the comments made by the Economic and Social Committee on the fact that empowerment and marketing are of the utmost value and that in future there must also be scope No. 1st@item: inlistbox In this respect, I would have wished that a revised national budget could avoid cutting down on just marketing. It is not free from the views of serious actors on this either. We have to make sure to keep up the 'tire', be there where the travel products are presented even in the years to come, in an offensive way. Competition is also becoming harder in this area to hijack the customer, and Norway can never compete at price. It must always be the quality and the product that become our premonitions. So I'm going to hang on and join in how important it is to nature and culture. Just further development of Norwegian food production and local traditions will give us new opportunities to become a greater experience for both mind and mouth. Similarly, I would like to refer to the close cooperation between tourism operators and agriculture. Cottage rentals, riding tours, chair visits – yes, living settlements – are worth taking care of and worth developing. There is in this community a sheep to a living cultural landscape as we've had it for a long time, and that makes us unique compared to many other countries. Nevertheless, as a member of the Committee on Transport, I cannot avoid pointing out that we have very large unsolved road sections. All these years, we've been using båstinking to a great extent. Business produces, while other consumers. In short, you have to be far better at seeing things in context. Good communication is alpha and omega, so that district industries, including travel, have a chance to survive in the future. The same applies before ICT. This gives many new possibilities, including for smaller actors. In 2001, the Stortinget shall manage the national transport plan. With the great pressure the Committee on Transport has had in relation to it, it becomes a challenging document. Had it only become a hub that could signal how dependent one is of good communication and an active ‘green travel’ and business life as team players to renovate Norway – after the oil age.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e619	Travel trends in Norway are worrying. Currently, stagnation is experienced in international tourism to the country. The positive trend we had in the first half of the 1990s has turned to decline. For example, the number of international hotel guests in Norway has decreased by 4 pst. in the first months of the year compared to last year. Therefore, the Progress Party wants a much higher level of funding for the international marketing of Norway as a tourist country through the activities of the Norwegian Tourism Council in order to remedy this. We have been prioritizing increased appropriations in this area for many years because we believe it is one of the most important pieces that needs to be in place to succeed. The Selnes Committee's report says exactly the same thing. Strengthening international profiling and marketing will contribute to better industry profitability through a higher willingness to pay and a better channelling of traffic to the cold seasons. We therefore find it negative when public efforts to international joint marketing are reduced by the Government. In the mid-1990s, appropriations were close to 100 million. kr, while with the proposed cut in the current revised budget they will come down to approx. Seventy-five million. kr. What the government is doing is showing the travel industry a cold shoulder. At a time when competition for tourists’ travel has become tougher, and many countries are increasing public spending, a reduction of nearly 20 pst is proposed. in the second half of this year. As a result, Norwegian tourism efforts are drowned by a lack of resources, and aggressive and resourceful efforts from highly profiled tourist countries are taking over. We are most likely to experience a lack of interest and loss of market share in the rest of the world as a result. The more or less random cuts experienced by the industry, and their justification, do not seem to be anchored in a conscious or qualified position as to what tourism should or should not mean for Norway in the time to come. Industry investment can also be limited because the lack of stability and predictability of authorities creates considerable uncertainty, while other countries increasingly regard marketing as a long-term process. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, This is sad, and in our opinion it is also completely unnecessary. Although the political majority is not willing to go as far as the Progress Party in terms of the level of funding for international tourism marketing, the initial budget should at least be followed up in order to avoid short-termity and unforeseeableness. In this context, it may be appropriate to recall the previous government's statements that one is committed to creating predictability in the government grants that go to the international marketing of travel life. Nor should we forget that significant amounts of industry have already been invested at home, and there is a large and untapped potential in international markets that can be realised through heavier and more targeted marketing. Some think it is alarming when the Progress Party wants to support selectively the tourism industry. We believe that this cannot be described as a selective aid scheme because the general marketing of Norway as a tourist country benefits many different industries, businesses and districts. Or in another way: the state is the only organisation for all businesses in Norway that has the advantage of increasing tourism in our country. Such an investment would be very sensible if one were to be able to increase turnover by 2-3 pst. or more. This is because the country receives value added and other tax revenue from the capital of non-resident tourists remaining in Norway, it is for the purchase of fuel, accommodation, food and other things. In our view, this will be a very profitable measure for both Norway and travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e639	There is a wide resolution about the setting today. But when we talk about travel life, emotions often get fast too. At the same time, policies need to be pursued within this industry in the future, with a view to improving value creation and profitability. This is short and quite necessary in order for tourism industries to be attractive to work and invest in. Travel industries must have the same framework conditions as other businesses, and therefore the same profitability, value creation, competence and not least quality requirements must also be imposed. The policy towards the tourism industries must be anchored in a very good understanding of exactly what I have said here. The SND shall continue to focus its activity on the enterprises, the Norwegian Tourism Council on the international marketing and profiling of Norway, while the municipalities and the regional level together with the enterprises must have the main grip on the local organisation of travel infrastructure. The Committee presents the possibilities that Norway can offer and indicates that, if these opportunities are to be exploited, the industry must be offered framework conditions in line with those found in other countries. I am aware that the industry itself has started work in order to be able to compare the basis for Norway's competitive situation. This will also be an important input into the framework conditions of tourism industries. With regard to the issue of VAT, the Government intends to submit a proposal for its own reform in the context of the budget for the autumn. The Committee also asks the Government to initiate close interaction with the industry, and we shall follow that up. Product and travel destination development is very central in the notification. The basis for meeting international competition for customers, both Nordics and non-residents, is the ability to develop products so that tourists demand them. Products and destinations with high quality and competitive prices, designed in line with the wishes of travellers themselves, are essential for success. Work on product development must therefore also give priority to industries. We have to recognise that the quality and customer orientation needs to be strengthened. It's the customers who decide. We must not lose sight of the fact that product and travel destination development is primarily the responsibility of the travel industries themselves. It must therefore never be the case that the public sector assumes the responsibilities of enterprises in this area. This is an industry and an industry that is now undergoing a very large transformation. NORTRA has undergone a major change, to what is now the Norwegian Tourist Council. It is important to follow up on this very profile, to which the Committee also subscribes. This means that enterprises themselves must provide a substantial part of the funding. I have noticed that the Committee stresses the need to find models that provide powerful funding for common resources and therefore asks the Government to further develop a system of tourist taxes if the tourism industries collectively take such an initiative. The Ministry will take an initiative vis-à-vis the organisations involved in the tourism industry in order to clarify whether the industries themselves want such a scheme. Active support from tourism industries is crucial. I also agree with the Committee that it must be a prerequisite for such schemes to be self-financing. It must be the travel industry itself that is responsible for and manages its own system. It doesn't help to have the world's best travel products if we can't make the markets aware of them. The progressive international competition implies that we need to use effective means of extracting the potential of the market. The new network economy will increasingly be the focus of these industries as well. Norwegian tourism businesses that are not available on the Internet are at short risk of disappearing. I have noticed that the Committee supports the proposal for a common entry portal for Norway as a tourist destination on the Internet. The Norwegian Tourist Council is responsible for this work. We in Norway have our characteristics that we identify with. It's about values and characteristics with roots in Norwegian culture and history and about our pure and attractive nature, or it could be about developing brands. Using such values and characteristics, we can build up a clear and recognizable picture of Norway abroad, which is crucial in increasing competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e665	The Council of State concluded that international markets must be aware of what Norway has to offer. That's right. But I feel that this isn't going to be any logical context when the government proposes a cut of 10 million through the revised budget. kr in the last six months. It was a great surprise for representatives of the Progress Party and some other parties who have mentioned this in the debate today. We find that this is not related to what is said to make the markets aware of Norway, especially not now when there is increased competition for customers and the number of international guest trips is falling relatively sharply in Norway. This policy suggests that there is short-termity and unforeseeability on the part of the Government, and we think that is very unfortunate. Moreover, there is no effective use – as several speakers have pointed out – of the underlying investments that lie there and that we should also try to achieve a good dietary benefit. All signals from the Department of the Norwegian Tourist Council have been clear: it is important to continue to develop its activities. So this is going to be random and completely meaningless. It does not seem that there is a conscious or qualified position behind the proposals for cuts. My question to the Council of State is: what is the real reason for these cuts, which amount to approx. 20 pst. in the last six months, and which poses major problems for our international marketing? We know that NORTRA has had a lot of problems in the past, and this adds to the burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e674	The representative is now aware that the revised national budget is under consideration in the Financial Committee and that there are a number of unforeseen expenditures and other expenditures which have increased in a way that necessitates reductions in the middle of a year. This is neither desirable nor shall it be common in an adjusted budget. This budget is otherwise provided by another government, and we are now trying to keep it within the tightness that we agreed upon when it was presented. With regard to internationalisation, it is also not true that it is based solely on appropriations from the Norwegian Tourism Council, other types of appropriations are also available, through our embassies and through the general internationalisation budgets of the Ministry of Industry. Otherwise, what the representative says is that we see a trend with a decrease in the number of travelers to Norway, is correct if you look at it in the short term, but here you also have to look at it over a slightly longer period, and then probably the trend is that there are more and more travelers coming to Norway. But otherwise: such an adjusted budget as we now have, should not be a normal phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e683	I remember what was said and written about the VAT. I just want to add that the amount of VAT applied to small businesses in travel life in the districts is incredibly important. It will be very important for the development of profitability. But I want to address another thing that I believe is the main thrust of the message in terms of what we are now going to do, and that is to spend more money on marketing. As I see it, the main prerequisite to succeed in increasing profitability, succeeding in marketing; succeeding in reaching customers through marketing. In the annex to the message, there is an investigation that actually suggests a doubling of public intervention in marketing. That the state has a role to play in ‘selling Norway’ and is a contributor to the sales work done by each company, I am very concerned about. It's often made to give people what they want, but in a way, we influence people's desires with our marketing. So what comes first is marketing, that is, sales work, and that is where we need to get much better in Norway. I think we should realize that this destination structure that we have chosen in Norway is not entirely successful in selling the genuine great products that we have in Norway. For small enterprises, the sales work has not completely worked out in Norway. The Norwegian Tourist Council often acts as a public consultancy company that helps the big ones, those who have money sail. I just want to ask the Minister: will the Minister make sure that small businesses get their fair share of the public marketing money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e694	The answer to the question is yes. It was also clearly highlighted by the representative, Kongshaug, who also went through the IT portal which is a room that will help both the smaller enterprises, the smallest enterprises and also the larger enterprises. But it's clear that we have a great responsibility to be able to sell the brand name Norway, and with a story. It is clear that it is also the one that makes it possible that customers would prefer us instead of others. But when the main act is marketing, as the representative said, it must at least be clear that it is not only society that can stand for it. At the same time, I would like to say that part of the problem is that the industry has been poorly organised and structured, that it is a conversion here that is the most important thing, and that by it we will get a nourishment of faith in themselves, which can stand up with quality and competence. Society will help through the ordinary means we have. But should it primarily be the responsibility of society? The answer to that is no, but the IT portal will be a good tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e701	The Council of State began its intervention by saying that a policy of increased profitability and increased value creation in the Norwegian tourism industry must be pursued. Yes, I think that's a message that we all like to join as a skilled goal. I remind the Council of State that this industry already accounts for a turnover of about 50 billion kroner, and that is one of the very largest and heaviest industries we have to manage in this country. But I have to ask what kind of long-term government really looks after, when it comes to expenditure on income acquisition, contributions to international marketing, up to a long-term of six months. Those who have been given this responsibility thus have a long-term attitude to what is either up to the forthcoming budget or up to the forthcoming revised budget. Does the Council not see that this policy, lacking a long-term perspective, can have a de motivating effect on those responsible? I have felt strongly that this industry has had great expectations for the travel news. It is an industry that has been put on to increase transport costs. When the Council of State does not say anything new about the VAT reform, I think it is certainly bad news for the industry. The industry records that the investment in international marketing is being cut, while our neighbouring country, which is far from having the same economic strength as us, is increasing its allocations. Where has the ambitions become on behalf of the Norwegian tourism industry? Has the Government given up the beautiful ambitions set out in the message?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e710	Several speakers have just pointed out that this Communication discusses the long-term arrangements, but does not specifically address either budget or different plans and reforms announced, including: the outdoor communication, the transport plan or the VAT reform, which, as I said in my speech, is related to the budget for the autumn. The general budgetary situation at the time of the presentation of the revision may not in itself be decisive. If you have to reduce a few million more, for example. The Tourist Council, it can't be decisive for a whole industry. But it's clear that it gives a setback, it gives a setback for everyone who has to make reductions in the middle of a year. Of course, that should not be the usual. But in order to keep a budget tight, it is necessary to cut it. The representative Kristiansen – I assume – will also have to do so, even if he wants a different opinion on where the cuts are to be made. But the ambitions of the announcement have joined both the government party and the other parties here in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e719	The Council of State referred to the important role of SND in this field. The majority of the Committee also does so. They indicate that SND must have an important role to play in stimulating the development of profitable enterprises in Norwegian business, and also raise some criticisms about the fact that SND has not been sufficiently willing to contribute to the risk that is very often associated with investment in travel. And that's probably a criticism that's right enough. One thing is at least certain: a prerequisite for SND to do a job is that SND has resources to do the job. Now we do not expect the Council of State to recognise that what she and the majority of the Committee want in terms of the role of the SND is not in line with what the Government proposes in the revised budget. But I wonder if the Council of State could go so far as to say that what is happening in connection with the revision, at least is not desirable, also in relation to a bet within the travel life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e726	As far as the industrial policy instruments are concerned, the SND, the Export Council and the Research Council, as I see it, are the most serious. So it is clear that when, because of the budgetary situation, many of the food policy instruments have to be cut, just as other instruments have to be cut, it is unfortunate. We're gonna have to make a big message about SND. There we'll go through this and see if you have to streamline, if you have to change, some of the tools we've used up to now, just to achieve better results, and if you need to connect them better to both the Research Council and the Export Council, hopefully then in close cooperation with the Tourist Council. But the answer to Inge Myrvoll's question is: Yes, it's clear that this is unfortunate, but it's necessary for us not to have any further difficulties in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e735	We all agree that for business in general predictability and long-termity are important, and it is important that we pursue a policy that is credible in that context. Especially for the tourism industry, where marketing has such long-term effects, it is important that one is predictable, so that the industry knows what it has to do in the coming year. And I want to emphasize that a reduction of 10 million. For the Norwegian Tourist Council in the revised budget – which has a half-yearly effect – in the opinion of the Left and many others is dramatic. So I don't think it's right to minimize the impact of this, as it might sound like the Council of State did. I hope that the other parties, regardless of the government party, see that this is so dramatic that they ensure that the necessary predictability will be restored in the consideration of the revised budget. So move on to another important area of travel. The previous government stated that the industry should not be subject to increased VAT burden. We know that it will be particularly bad for businesses in the districts, such as operates unilaterally with overnight stays and has little sales of products, if VAT is introduced on these services. What is important is that we have a competitive travel industry and that one is predictable in terms of the VAT burden in that area. My question is therefore: Can the Government assure us that there will not be an increase in the VAT burden on the tourism industry during the coming period?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e745	I fully agree with the representative of Kongshaug that credibility and long-term sustainability are crucial. That's actually exactly the budget that the Bondevik government put forward, we're adjusting now, and it also makes it necessary to do a series of cuts. It may well be that we do not agree on where they will come from, and that the representative Kongshaug believes he can find a cut that does not hurt at all. But we haven't actually seen so many of them, because we think that most pains. In such a situation, which we hope we won't experience so many of, everyone will have to take their tower and stand for it. As far as VAT reform is concerned, this government has announced that we are coming with the reform. The last one didn't. It didn't let it out. Of course, the many problematic aspects, so to stand here foreshadowing what will be presented in that reform, which is so difficult that the previous government at least does not let it forward, I can't do that. But I know which districts are having a hard time. We know that we have to make arrangements, because we know that part of our travel areas will otherwise be incredibly difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e752	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e755	I want to start by expressing that within the Norwegian tourism industry we have very many and competent actors, and I think we have a quality that definitely tolerates comparison, no matter which regions or nations we choose to go in. We have also had a product development in the Norwegian tourism industry that has been and is quite impressive, and we have received a quality increase as a result. This applies in particular to those regions which have chosen to take Norwegian tourism seriously and which have seen it as an industry with a potential for real high value creation. It is clear that when we record that the industry accounts for a significant proportion of Norwegian total employment and for a value creation greater than that of the primary industry, we can almost immediately conclude that the industry has not been given the status it really deserves in Norwegian society. If it is because, as the Council of State was concerned, the industry is poorly organised and structured, or if it is due to a lack of public investment in Norwegian tourism, I do not have the answer. But if that's what the Council of State says, that this industry appears to be poorly organised and structured, then we have to take this a little bit more seriously than we have chosen to do so far. Because it is a highly competitive industry, it is a very district-oriented industry, and it is an industry that is going to live with framework conditions that unfortunately are not close to what is happening in those countries that are geographically really located near the large population-rich areas of Europe or the world. We are far from the population-rich market, and we have a price factor in Norway that makes the starting point poor when we look at the possibilities of selling products that are comparable to what customers find elsewhere in the world. But despite this, we have already been able to produce products domestically, some brands – I choose to use the word «brand products» whether we are talking about Hurtigruta, Ski-Norway, Lofoten or Hallingdal – which appears to be very successful. It is obvious that the starting point we have in Norway, wild, beautiful nature, culture, local food traditions, etc., is something that we can definitely focus on. As a nation outside the EU, which is not an EU member, which is not particularly involved in the marketing that takes place within the EU, and which must only be a spectator of the huge efforts made by the EU in our neighbouring countries, we should have been able to provide this industry with better framework conditions than we have so far achieved. I believe that the ambitions are subdued during the work on this message. In an industry where investment is too high, with a high employment factor and a short season, VAT fraud is allowed to hang in the air. And we have transport costs in this country at the top of Europe. If we are serious about talking about the instrument, I hope that the Council of State will follow up this work in a thorough manner, and especially in the municipalities that want to take this job seriously. This means that municipalities also need to take the tourism industry in a much more serious way. When we see that destinations around live from hand to mouth compared to some other industries that have the negative factor, and where we know that employment goes down, we should be better able to cope with migration and bet more on tourism locally. This must require a number of greater cooperation with, among other things, the European Union and its Member States. the agricultural and Norwegian rural development industries. If we succeed in that, the industry can meet bright times, but we also have to tighten up on ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e770	Today, at least not the Labour Party, but the opposition party, who has raised the VAT ghost and created uncertainty. The working party took the initiative to ask for a map on travel life in connection with the Enterprise Communication. The travel message was submitted by the government of Bondevik just before Christmas, and is today for handling here in Stortinget. As previous case spokesman, I spoke early on about the message as positive in terms of branding and international marketing, but I also said that it was an incomplete message, a message that little concerned product development, Norwegians, the Nordic dimension, the price and conference market and the competence challenge, to mention the most important thing. This greatly corrects the big setting, and I'll give it to the case-speakers Beeivi and the committee that points to these areas. The setting is also clearer than the message, as opposed to a desire for travel life to be a sector to invest in, a sector in which, among other things. SND should have a central role. It is my hope that SND prioritises travel life as a forward-looking, district-based and women-dominated industry. I am pleased that the plurality – all without the Progress Party – asks the SND to assess the risk issue associated with this industry in the ongoing evaluation of the SND. I would like to add that I hope that the industry, in cooperation with the SND, will focus on actions that initiate cooperation between many actors and in cross-border regions. Dissemination and specific measures are rarely successful in this sector. I have to a large extent seen the tourism industry as poorly organised. This often gives poor and unwholesome products, which tourists may visit once, but rarely more. I agree with the Committee that the organisation is above all a challenge for the industry itself, but I believe, as the Committee, that the Norwegian Tourism Council is essential for cooperation between operators in the tourism industry. The Bondevik government had little ambitions about empowerment in the industry. Competence is important for the Workers' Party. I am therefore pleased that the Committee takes this into account and focuses on higher education in this field. There are many different levels of provision in the higher education sector, and it is likely that there will be difficulties in reviewing these courses. It may be appropriate to reduce the number of offers, but at the same time ensure that the supply is available throughout the country through distance learning and decentralised approaches. Then the quality can be increased as the range increases. It is also a point to increase recruitment to vocational training in the industry, not only for the cooking and serving profession, which is mentioned in the setting, but also for the whole of the feeling. Competence – both in service and content – is crucial for most of us when choosing destinations. I have never quite understood the so-called franchise model, at least not how he should be able to function beyond the organisation of marketing abroad. I am therefore pleased that the Committee says that, in cooperation with the Norwegian Tourism Council, the companies are best placed to identify good ways to organise joint action. The industry itself is responsible for developing brands and spearheads. It is important that one in this process does not disable the child from bathing water. One of the untapped successes so far has our Fjord-Noreg. Mountain and fjords connect foreign tourists with Norway, and I have argued that this is being passed on and not replaced by anything as eelment as for example. Coast Norway. Many people also associate Norway with the peace prize and with our international peace exposure. It is interesting to note that the committee also mentions this in its setting. Trend researchers believe that Norway has a great untapped potential in its diverse nature and culture. Still more people are willing to pay more and more for a different travel product. The Institute for Future Research in Denmark emphasises that more people are willing to pay more for the special. People in the Western world are dealing more and more with their hearts and less and less with their heads. It provides new challenges and new opportunities for Norway as well. Ensuring the existence and establishment of new jobs is important in this context. In conclusion, I would like to mention that I am pleased to continue working on the issue of tourist taxes, and that the Committee asks the Government to establish some kind of contact with the industry. And the Council of State has made a positive comment. Otherwise, I have noticed that the Workers' Party is alone in focusing on local people and tourists' access to nature and leisure. The majority are most occupied by their basic owners' rights in this context. In these issues, policy differences are more pronounced than in most areas. The Labour Party's concern for all-man rights is a quality mark – only a sin that we stand alone, and that the plurality thus limits the potential of tourism industries in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e796	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e799	It's the first time I have the opportunity to speak from this pulpit, and perhaps the most important thing I can say is to join in what has been said, that the tourism industry has too little attention and too low status in Norwegian policy. It applies both at large and at local level. St.meld. No 15 and the Inst. S. No 209 contains many important assessments and positive elements for the future Norwegian tourism industry. The Committee feels that the industry must be ‘provided with framework conditions in line with those found in other countries’, and this is, in fact, quite binding and ambitious. A main task should be to have a clear framework for the marketing of Norway abroad, built on the committee referred to as ‘brand construction’. The Committee itself says that it must be a bet area to ensure that foreigners form part of the growth of Norwegian travel lives, and point No. 1 is that tourists come here. Perhaps there is also a basis for a closer look at the public responsibilities and organisation of travel. Too many bodies may lead to a powdering of responsibilities and unnecessary visibility of the industry. The message also shows that the tourism industry itself is very complex. Travel life has a difficult organisation and structure, which has led to many difficult debates at regional and local level. I agree with those who have stated that it may also be a public responsibility – whether it be county or municipality – to ensure that cooperation is improved, for example. by setting up a destination company. I myself have good experience in that way. I am pleased that the Committee says that the transport plan must focus on the challenges of travel, on transport, infrastructure and accessibility as an important element of competition. Throughout my home country, Uppland, tourism is very important. I know best about the Beitost beer, which with its 2,500-3 000 beds is one of the larger destinations. As many know, Beitostølen lies at Rv 51, which is winter-related over Valdresflya. The travel industry has worked hard against the road manager to get a fixed date for this road, without any luck. There must be a defeat for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e814	Few industries in Norway have the same spread as the tourism industry. In this way, it can represent significant values across the country, from the largest cities to the least urban areas. Primary industries have improved significantly in the last 20 years, and in many places travel is an industry that can replace and support primary industries. This will in many cases also create new offers, not only for visitors, but also for the local population. As a result, a multiplicity of tourism activities can in many ways become part of the glue needed to preserve living areas throughout the country. Other service functions can also be added to a tourism enterprise, which also contributes to the maintenance and development of other activities, to the joy of both the visitors and the local population. A key in this way is cooperation. It is about seeing things in context and exploiting the opportunities that exist, in close and trusting cooperation between different actors in the community. This applies to both large and small sites in Norway. Cooperation, coordination and joint market developments are necessary and will become even more important in a future travel life. Of course, government policy must contribute here, but without the active involvement of the actors themselves, it is difficult to imagine that one can achieve good practical results for the industry. Travel life in Norway has a hard time earning too little. Increased profitability is a major challenge for overall travel. The task will then be to give priority to the most effective measures for increased profitability. What measures this can be must be discussed by the practitioners who have the best experience, and then make representations both to the state and to the industry itself. Information and communication technologies have already come into use in the tourism industry. More and more orders for goods and services on the Internet, and a systematic use of ICT, from the major players in Norway to small businesses, could have a positive impact on travel. Getting access to the Internet is easy to recognize and easy to use. With the wide availability of Internet services, the task is to get a system so tidy and easily accessible that the least experienced Internet user also finds Norwegian travel lives and Norwegian travel life products among all others who are on the same network. Travel activities are usually marked by meetings between people. This applies either in the case of transport, in a place of accommodation or in the case of sights. If all these meetings with people travel in Norway to pleasant and rewarding meetings, the chance of getting these people back is much greater. Besides, it is very good advertising that people talk hot and enthusiastically to their friends and acquaintances about what they have experienced on their own trips.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e827	Norway is a significant country of travel. In the March edition of the Chicago Tribune Magazine, the Norwegian fjords are drawn to Europe’s greatest natural attraction. And it was precisely the Norwegian fjords that were the beginning of our modern travel industry. Especially along the Hardangerfjord and the Sognefjord, hotels that today – in the fifth and sixth generations – are among the country’s most famous tourism businesses. The international travel industry is of enormous importance, and only in small Norway is the industry’s share of GDP SEK 47.2 billion. But the growth in the tourism industry has been less than in other comparable industries. Not least given the future importance of the tourism industry for the national economy, the government needs to focus heavily on this. However, there is one aspect that is essential for tourism traffic to Norway, and that is achievable. No foreign tour operator chooses Norwegian destinations if they are perceived as difficult to reach. At Hardangerfjorden, the quick boat offer is at risk because the route is cleared for only one year at a time. The very strenuous economy of Hordaland County has made it difficult to maintain the necessary operating grant. Another aspect is the difficult entrance situation for major cruise ships to the port of Bergen. Green waters and a casual entrance link create unfortunate limits for Kulturby Bergen 2000. Here, too, there is talk of relatively small amounts producing new and large incomes. Prosperity therefore becomes a crucial instrument for the tourism industry as well. The Committee's position brings together a broad majority along the main lines of policy. In particular, it is noted that the diversity of tourism establishments in the country is an important competitive advantage for Norway. Increasingly, we see that small businesses that grow offer products in combination with our nature and culture, which they are of course alone about. The new information technology will enable these companies to reach markets they have never been in before. Broadband and the Internet will bring fruit blossoms out to the remotest hooks of the world. The extent to which the tourism industry is able to make use of the new technology will undoubtedly be one of the most important factors for increased tourism in Travel Life Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e840	The soul of the Workers' Party must be capable of having two thoughts in its head at once, and that is the right of all persons. What is the situation today is that all-man rights are commercially exploited by foreign actors in Norway, and there must be a limit to how naive we can be in facilitating the free exploitation of our nature by foreign actors. I know cases in my own country where foreign actors exploit the land in such a way that I wonder how stupid it is to be in Norway. Norway is one of the few countries where we serve all this for free. It has to be possible to strike a good balance between commercial travel and universal service. You're not against all-men's rights, even if you say that you also have to have a commercial consideration on the part of the landowner. The second point I want to raise is marketing – selling Norway. It is claimed here that it is the responsibility of the industry. Yes, it is the industry's responsibility to market its own products, but here there is a significant interaction effect between the tourism industry, other industries and the community, and the interaction effect benefits the entire community. I think that the public effort we put into successful marketing will be restored by increasing welfare in Norway; one must not just push this over into the industry, but in a way see the big picture. The most important thing about this message is that I think I'm using more resources on marketing. Increased marketing and more successful marketing resources are key to increasing profitability. Many representatives also focus on structuring, and I perceive that word – as it is used – as streamlined and flattened. I would say that structuring is not any value creation in itself, in fact there may be a lot of wasted work. There's little profitability in that. Our great asset and potential lie in diversity. Selling this diversity — all the exciting things in Norway — in a better way is the great challenge and the great effort we need to take to make tourism more attractive and profitable. We must sell Norway as the land of the great and the small pearls.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e851	The president understood it so that the representative did not accuse anyone of being stupid or naive, but that this was a general form of speech. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e866	It is to be voted on on on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-2.ana.ud643e901	There is no record.
