ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e78	The government's draft budget and the central agreement provide a good basis for growth and increased activity in an important welfare area. The budget also makes it possible to face concrete challenges in the future. One of the biggest challenges we face in society is that there are too few people in the public and private sectors who have to do the tasks. And everything else that we also want to do. There are several ways to meet this, and the budgetary agreement points out that increasing immigration is something to be assessed. In this context, it is also important that the line of action in employment and social policy be strengthened, that the labour market seat function quickly and efficiently, and that labour market measures serve to qualify people for the unemployed. It also means that one needs to facilitate the combination of work and social security, work and retirement. What, in my view, will provide the best and most lasting solution in a society where conversion is both positive and necessary is to have a holistic educational provision with regard to the renewal or transformation of the individual’s knowledge and competence. A stable framework for business is no longer a question of the economy and the promotion of economic development. Today, it is essentially a question of access to skilled labour. The Labour Party has implemented many reforms in the field of education. The most important thing in this context is enough, in my opinion, the real skills reform, which gives full acceptance for professional practice as a basis for study competence for those who would like it. This is not a mere recognition of vocational and vocational training. It will also be crucial for us to be able to meet the need for more labour, so that workers are given an offer of continuous renewal of knowledge and skills. Lifelong learning, as this implies, also creates security and a basis for the development of those who are to cope with the transition in the working situation and the change in the life situation. There is therefore reason to respond strongly to the proposals made by the Progress Party and the Right in this budget. At a time when the pressure on the job persists, while the individual is also going to deal with change in work and in society, one from the Progress Party and the Right is meeting with measures that cannot be said to be stimulating or trusting for those who want to play an active part in getting out of a difficult situation. Nor can it be said to be particularly constructive and forward-looking when it comes to attacking these people by means of financial penalties through cuts in the sick pay scheme. The fact that this is also to be used to finance tax relief for those who already have a lot of money says a lot about the lack of understanding of the challenges we face, but perhaps the most important thing about which values these parties focus is when it comes to prioritizing between employees and those who earn large income on dividends. There are several political clarifications in this budget, and it is important for everyone who wants to participate in building the country in the future, that one can feel secure that the majority, i.e. The working party and centre will ensure the important foundation of the sick pay scheme for workers. This scheme is based on employee-to-employee justice and a sense of value which, in this context, is also concerned with the fair distribution of the values that are created. Now, fortunately, there is no plurality for such an anti-employee policy, nor will there be any plurality in the people of these two parties at the next elections. This policy should also be very clear to workers around the country. The difference between a policy in which health and human dignity are the foundation, and a policy in which the individual matters are dominant, emerges well when one by one holds the medal's front against the people. But what many people forget is that when you do it, you're also reflected in the back of the medal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e102	It is only to be noted that the outcome of the budgetary agreement implies an increase in taxes and charges for both business and population. The Labour Party is very satisfied because the income side is the same as in the Government's budget proposal, only with a slightly different distribution. The central parties are satisfied and fully behind the rest of the budget – and hence behind the Labour Party's policy. The budget agreement also means that, at record speed, we will have a VAT reform which has been discussed since 1990 and which various governments have hesitated to present. This is done without an assessment of transitional arrangements, or of the distortion of competition that will occur, in some industries. The implementation of half of the food tax is more important for the Centre Party than a real fundamental discussion of the VAT reform first, as the Bondevik government suggested. Half of VAT on food, which will cost DKK 6 billion on an annual basis, must be financed by increasing VAT. The consequence is that all goods will be more expensive from 1 January, including food. According to the experts, half of VAT will have no effect on border trade, as it will only reduce food prices by 5-6 pst. The cross-border trade problem is thus a pretext for meeting the wishes of the Norwegian Confederation. The SIFO study shows that food in Sweden averages 40-50 pst. cheaper than in Norway. A number of other studies show that key groceries are significantly cheaper in Sweden. This will be a gift package for the retail chains in Norway and for the agricultural industry. The announced migration in agriculture is now likely to be postponed on time. Clearly, the representative Signe Eye does not believe in the SIFO study or in other studies that show that food prices in Sweden are much more reasonable than in Norway. In response to my reply earlier today, she said that this is not correct. I'm going to believe that SIFO is more credible than Signe Eye. It is only a conversion of agricultural policy that can bring food prices down to Swedish level. The cyclical cost of work, as proposed by the Government, has been replaced by a write-off and a short-term cost of construction. An improvement, claims the center games. Yes, for some businesses it is. However, the business cycle tax on non-residential buildings has been received with a storm of protests. Once again, business has been overrun with a new fee. In my view, there is little understanding both in the Workers' Party and in the Centre parties that businesses need predictable and, not least, stable framework conditions. Unfortunately, it is not the first time such abrupt changes are made to the framework conditions. The economy, which through its value creation makes it possible to maintain our welfare systems, needs precisely stable framework conditions. Now several companies consider moving out of Norway. Torra assesses it, Rimi assesses it, Color Line assesses it, and not least the new, growing IT companies assess it – just to name someone. The high level of taxation is the reason for such an assessment, in addition to unforeseeable framework conditions. It is understandable that enterprises make such an assessment when other countries reduce the overall tax burden. Although companies would not decide to move out, the decision to sell to non-resident companies that have their headquarters in better tax regimes could be replaced. And I guess that's not what we want. In addition, today we can read about the study carried out by the National Association of Technology Enterprises, which suggests that every ten technology companies are considering shifting their investment in research and development abroad. This is justified by the fact that the framework conditions for R & D and innovation in Norway are not competitive and that there are tax incentives and greater predictability of the public support needed. R & D should be much stronger, as proposed by the Right. The imposition of VAT on research, as the majority will, is also no encouragement. The entire management of the Workers' Party, plus fiscal spokesman Erik Dalheim, has promised to lower the fee on spirits. The leader of the Christian People's Party has also promised. The result of the budgetary agreement is that there will be no reduction – a direct breach of promises. This is a pure gift package for business in Sweden and Denmark, and to great joy for the smugglers. In addition, the allocation for increased border monitoring has been deleted. Is it any wonder that the smugglers are cheering? We must give the centre parties credit for not increasing the electricity charge for the process industry and for removing the sulphur tax, it has reduced it to 1999 levels. But instead, they have imposed an electricity tax on the industry on the administration, and this is something that increases bureaucracy. I thought the Left went in for a simpler Norway. It doesn't look like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e132	The districts depend on the car as the main means of transport. Good transport solutions are an important regional policy instrument and the prerequisite for housing and industrial activity. The working party wants road investments primarily to upgrade and maintain existing road networks, for example: for racial protection. The extension of the main road network shall continue and in parts of the country the national road network shall also be extended. In the interests of nutrition and housing, roads in the counties must be strengthened. We will give priority to road investments that help solve environmental, health and safety problems. Fuel Fracturisation shall contribute to the highest possible level of gas prices throughout the country. Large parts of the country depend on aircraft for transport over longer distances. The Workers' Party wants the State to continue to contribute to the public procurement of air services under the tendering principle for non-commercially profitable air routes, as the Minister for Transport has indicated that he will do in the case of Røros. Environmental and safety requirements have led to the production of more environmentally friendly cars. We believe this is a development that should be further stimulated. Research and development of motor vehicles that can use energy other than petrol and diesel should be intensified. We want the Norwegian side to work internationally to get more countries involved in demanding the car industry to develop more environmentally friendly cars. Nationally, we will stimulate increased testing of alternative energy such as gas, electricity and hydrogen. The tests running on gas as fuel in buses and taxis are very positive. We want the charging system to stimulate testing and transition to alternative energy. Every year more than 300 people lose their lives on Norwegian roads and more than 12,000 are seriously injured in road accidents. We can't accept this. In the same way as in the case of air and rail traffic, the Workers' Party will ensure that a ‘zero vision’ is taken into account also in road traffic. It involves increasing the focus on controls and awareness-raising activities, but also new measures such as tougher responses to traffic rules violations and driving licence nitness. The working party will discuss road safety more closely when considering the National Transport Plan for Spring. Travel life and ski lifts are now exempt from VAT. This decision means a lot too many people in this industry. Travel life in Norway creates major ring-fences for our society and contributes greatly to the maintenance of viable societies, especially in areas where industry and agriculture are no longer dominant. The tourism industry consists of a large and rich diversity of small enterprises and businesses offering different experiences and activities. A large part of these travel activities are small, with limited profit possibilities. Travel life is not a unique industry, but a system of different industries and functions that together meets the needs of the traveller and gives the traveller an experience. This may be a range of rides in forests and fields or tours with dog guides, elgsafari etc. Such offers can be very good also for people with reduced mobility. It is the diversity of establishments that create quality offers. In Hedmark, among other things, Trysil had a strong commitment to the development of travel life and was concerned that natural tourism, as part of local business, too, would not be weakened. In the further work on regulations, I hope that activity companies can also be defined as travel lives, which will help more municipalities in Hedmark, not least Trysil.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e158	Society is developing rapidly. New technologies allow a whole new way of solving challenges and tasks. This also affects the public sector. It is therefore right and necessary that the public sector be reviewed and, where appropriate, renewed. Where possible, a change must lead to more production of services and less bureaucracy, control and regulation. But it is important that what is called renewal and modernisation is not synonymous with rationalisation, centralisation and termination of services. In the context of the State budget, proposals have been launched to change the number of Equation Offices. This is just one example of government jobs being lost from many municipalities and gathering in larger units. When one sees that a few jobs are lost, it may not seem very dangerous, but when closures take place in areas by region, the sum of jobs that are lost will not be insignificant. This has multiple negative sides. Among other things, the proximity of users will be lost. With long distances, the service often gets worse. Another negative side is that job variation in several local communities is reduced, skills jobs are lost. Public service agencies may be a solution that can replace several workplaces and the services they are required to provide. It is important that the work on putting public service offices in place is intensified. If there is too much time away from work until the service offices are in place, it will be difficult to gather the services in a new organisation. The government’s 2001 budget for transport is, in many cases, the worst budget for transport in many years, and some say it is the worst in 20 years. It's e.g. a clear decline in the flows of highways. The permissions of the Railway Agency’s investments in the line have also declined. In fact, the draft budget contains an increase in road maintenance permits, but no more than that the Ministry expects that road capital, including in 2001, will be reduced by between 500 and 600 million. kr. This is the situation at a time when there is no lack of money. Of course, we should be careful about using so much of the oil wealth that it leads to increased inflation, with the negative consequences it will bring. However, it must be reasonable to assess the situation in the construction industry before rejecting greater efforts in the construction of infrastructure. The «Market situation of installations» report, prepared by ECON Centres for Economic Analysis, and also by industry information itself, makes it clear that there is currently no capacity available in the construction industry, and it will also be in 2001. Yes, according to the information we have, in 2001 there will probably be between 2 000 and 3 000 workers running idle or completely unemployed. Without work, these unemployed workers may be dependent on unemployment benefits or labour market measures. It would then be better for them to carry out the necessary work in the civil engineering sector, especially at a time when we know that there are very large delays in the maintenance sector, both on rail and road, and many start-up installations are being run economically and new important installations are not being set up. It is a fact that it is possible to increase production within plants by a large percentage with the existing machinery fleet and without adding any additional figures. Missing assignments in the future could lead to bankruptcy in the industry. With the specialization that is in all industries, there is no way that the employees can go straight into jobs in other industries. With such a situation, we in the Center Party believe that there is room to spend a little more oil money in infrastructure construction. We mean that with NOK 1.5 billion, we can take back some of the lag on the maintenance, operate the facilities more efficiently and get new important installations started, while at the same time relieving the situation in the construction industry. In the negotiations with the Workers' Party, it was not closed for the Centre Party to get a pass on this. It is clear that when it comes to facilitating construction throughout the country and creating good conditions for business, the Centre Party has greater ambitions than the Workers' Party. However, I am pleased that the budgetary agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party led to a slight increase in the transport sector, even though there were quite different sizes to what the Centre Party thinks is necessary. But an addition to investment, public transport and ferries is better than nothing. At the end of the day, I want to stop a little by ferry and ferry costs. For real estate and business along the whole coast, ferry costs are an additional cost. The aim of the centre party is that the ferries will be free of charge in the long term. The ferries are part of the road, and it is unthinkable that it should cost extra to pass parts of the road. When you depend on using a ferry to cross a fjord, you have to pay. If the bridge or tunnel is built under a fjord, it will be free of charge. This is unimaginable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e177	The budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre ensures stability, low interest rates and continued good Community solutions in Norway. We saw that in the work on the Equalization Communication: Private wealth and greed culture must be facilitated in order to ensure a fairer distribution. The Labour Party will further develop a society where we take care of each other. Treatment and care shall be provided as necessary. Private demand shall neither determine where health services are to be available in the country nor who is to be treated. A key idea of the Labour Party's policy is to give as many people as possible the opportunity to participate in working and social life on the basis of their own abilities. Some groups have become lagging behind in welfare development, and there is a need to present an action plan on social and economic security. It is serious that 70,000 children have a difficult everyday life, where they have to give up ordinary goods. The Labour Party will have a society where one will not have financial concerns at the top of the disease. That's why we don't want a brutal reversal of the sick pay system, as the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour. The costs of sickness and disability have increased. These are signs of a tougher working life. We need to have an active and better policy to make it possible to qualify for employment as much as possible. We need to provide better opportunities to combine work and children, and work and social security. The budgetary agreement means a substantial strengthening of the public sector. We need a high level of public health and care services. We need to reform and renew services. The health record needs to be improved by becoming more patient-friendly. If it is to succeed, it must also be better organized. The government aims at the rapid establishment of state ownership of hospitals and their governance according to the business model. It is important to ensure regional anchoring and influence when implementing the major hospital reform. The new health laws will come into force next year. Patients shall then be required to have greater predictability. I want you to know what help you can get, and when you can expect treatment. The new fixed medical device shall ensure access to all permanent medical devices. It will provide greater safety and stability in the relationship between doctor and patient. The 2001 budget follows on from the four comprehensive action plans. The effort for the elderly is increased by nearly 4 billion kroner. This provides room for an additional 5000 health homes or nursing homes. Fortunately, the recruitment of personnel is better than the number of plans. More and more hands are being placed and have to be made available in the care sector. We want to force the municipal authorities to launch some measures and add 70 million more to the psychiatry. kr. We have many tasks that need to be done better, but the budgetary agreement shows that Community solutions still have a solid anchor in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e198	Once again, unfortunately, we have to note that the Labour Party and the Centre are presenting a deplorable budget, and in particular it is deplorable in the road sector. The centre parties were, as usual, high up and promised to increase their efforts in the road sector. As usual, it was unfortunately with the promise once again. We note that the Government is actually proposing to reduce the net framework. Road transport investment is being reduced and on a poor road network, which should have increased by at least 100 pst. The government and the centre have at all failed to understand that the road sector is the dominant transport year in Norway. Of the total domestic transport, road transport accounted for about 85 pst. by passenger transport and 50 pst. of the carriage of goods. The railways only perform 5 pst. of passenger transport and 8 pst. of the carriage of goods. The rate of investment in the main road network is reduced, but some alternative transport services are not proposed. The result will be a clean cut budget without any tools to solve the problems in Norwegian commerce. The Progress Party will point out that road capital has been significantly reduced in recent years. This is very worrying, and the delay has now risen to 8 billion kroner. It has to be set aside approx. 600 million. kr more per. years of maintenance beyond the current level in order not to increase further. The Progress Party has added an increase of 600 million in its alternative budget. kr for maintenance. The progress party wants good and safe roads, not roads like today, with track and hole road surfaces and edges that yield and poor winter breakage. If the current level of maintenance continues, the lag during the planning period will increase further, as the lack of maintenance results in an accelerated breakdown of the road. In order to support the expansion, the Progress Party will also be committed to private development and operation, so-called OPS. However, it is assumed that taxes to the country will be reduced, so that no more payments are made for the same route. The Directorate of Roads must be responsible for planning national road development, but the construction itself should be left to private contractors. Road maintenance should be offered to private contractors and new road projects involving direct or indirect public investment should be subject to a cost-benefit assessment prior to prioritising projects. The Progress Party is also concerned that the ordinary appropriations for road transport purposes of the State budget will be reduced approximately proportionally with the increase in toll payments. It is also worrying that large sums are used for the administration and operation of the bomb companies rather than for the construction of an efficient road network. It is worrying that the state takes in a total of 40 billion kroner on cars and car use, and gives as little as 10 billion kroner in total on the operation and maintenance of the roads, and only a little for investment in new plants. The small thing they do about investment in this country is largely done for the 2 billion kroner that are included in the bomb charges. The Progress Party will deposit an additional SEK 600 million for the maintenance of our highways and SEK 1.6 billion for new national road investments, a total add-on of about SEK 2.2 billion in addition to the Government's proposals. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to spend SEK 1.5 billion on the foreign budget to allow foreign entrepreneurs to expand our domestic roads. After the oil age, Norway is totally dependent on having put in place a good infrastructure, and then it is a strange strategy to put everything into public transport. It is not public transport that will in future transport Norwegian exports, such as fish, furniture and paper, to the continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e221	Two sections of the Christian People's Party were particularly decentralized in the Labour Party Government's draft budget. The Church and the private schools experienced dramatic cutbacks, and the budgetary conciliation can almost be called a lifesaving action. Now the budget for private schools and churches has increased by over 100 million. kr. That Labour Party government had welcomed the Church in its draft budget came out on the minus side compared to the previous budget. The grants to the local church were cut more than the 35 new performances cost. The government made a cut in the church councils of $25 million. kr. The government would open up transfers from the Information Service Fund to the Presbyteries, the Cathedral of Nidaro and the Church Register of Members. This was done before the economic announcement has been discussed in church organisations and big business. The introduction of such a principle in budgetary terms, without being discussed in the democratic bodies, is a matter of concern and these funds have now been reduced by the budgetary conciliation process. I have to ask how the relationship between words and action is when the Labour Party wants to defend an active people's church, as we have heard before today, while they are building it down in the budget. Slowly, but surely, the Workers' Party has begun to involve the voluntary sector in its political rhetoric. But it seems that the Workers' Party does not have a particular sense of what national colleges and private schools contribute to the diversity of our democratic society. In the budget negotiations, the central parties have been remunerated to the 19-year-olds who opt for one year of secondary education — one year for maturation and reflection. If this scholarship scheme had been cut, it would have been a real threat to the recruitment of the national colleges. Similarly, there has been a lack of pay compensation for teachers in private schools, colleges and higher education institutions, training courses and grants for private school and church buildings. Why doesn't the government see the value of the private schools and colleges, but on the contrary, these schools call one-sided? State Council Giske says in School Focus No. 19: ‘I fear we will get a new kind of fresh schools if the private school system is released: schools free of diversity, free of equality, and other things we think it is worth fighting for.’ I can assure the Council of State that although I have also attended private school, I have learned both about diversity and about equality. I see no contrast between this and fighting for a good public school. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that we have strengthened the post of quality development in primary school by 25 million. kr. This is a continuation of the school package introduced by the Bondevik government, which is to strengthen youth in particular. It will enable more schools to promote educational development and to enable adapted training. The Christian People's Party is serious about the fact that youth has almost fallen between two chairs – the 6-year reform on the one hand and Reform 94 on the other. A better high school we get with motivated teachers who are being schooled in the new professional challenges they are now in the middle of. The evaluation of the CRL subject was presented on 10 October. It shows that the vast majority of parents – 86 pst. – experiences this subject as good for their children. It is perceived as both exciting and meaningful, and still has potential for improvement. The challenges to teachers' competence in this subject are therefore urgent. Specific resources are needed for the further training of teachers. This applies primarily to professional content, but also to learning to communicate with parents, so as to create trust between home and school. For this reason, the CRL subject must remain a priority subject in the field of continuing training for teachers. The Christian People's Party wants a good public school with a common subject for knowledge and dialogue about faith. A prerequisite for this is then that Christianity is a central part of the subject. We haven't finished qualifying teachers after the 3-year-olds that we've now had since the L97 start. Some characterize high school as a place of storage for young people. I know the schools are so much more than this. There is an incredible amount of good and creative work being done, but we also know that many teachers are struggling with unmotivated students, with meetings and paperwork. So here's still a lot to do. The Christian People's Party has made remarkable political efforts in a budget where the cuts were dramatic in important sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e252	Making a national budget for Norway is an interesting task. It must be prioritised, balanced, recommended and negotiated. Government revenue and expenditure are debated in depth to clarify the balance point between the two sizes. But the real main purpose of a national budget is to prioritize and distribute well-being. The income of the country, such as taxes and taxes, contributes to providing more or less well-being to different groupings. In this budget, the Labour Party has deliberately wanted to strengthen the health system, give more to care for the elderly and to kindergartens, and strengthen education and research. The vast majority of people in this room see that there are differences in Norwegian society. Many also see the difference between the political parties. Sometimes I'm a little thankful that the Advance Party is so different from the other parties. It's in very dark times. Some people, for political reasons, want to make these differences even bigger than they are, in order to get more voters to their own game. But I very much doubt that the description of the well-being in today's Norway that was presented by the representative Siv Jensen yesterday morning was quite correct. We all have eyes in our heads and look at the one side of business that costs high wages, nice houses, great cars and expensive cabins, while on the other side there are children living below the poverty line, and public poverty at some of our schools. I therefore think it is not unreasonable that those who have large incomes, for example. through dividend dividends, must pay more in tax. Therefore, tax on dividends on shares is a priority. That is, those who have the most, also have to do the most, so that we get better and more well-being for most people. The Progress Party does not agree with such priorities. In their alternative state budget, they are taxing dividends on shares, and they are going against property taxes. They are largely dissatisfied with the fact that we have a tax system in Norway that allows us to withdraw money from business and also from ordinary workers to pay together some of our common resources. In its observations on the budget agreement, the Progress Party really rises to the great heights when they polemise over fair distribution. They write: ‘These members cannot see that neither the original proposal of the Government nor the budgetary agreement lead to a fairer distribution.’ Nor do they understand what ‘partners mean by a fair distribution’. I can read from the Advance Party's alternative state budget that they will never arrive at a fair distribution either. At least as far as I'm concerned personally, I have a completely different view of justice than the Progress Party. I had hoped that there was some kind of common understanding that the money we received into the Norwegian State's common fund would be used to offer the population in many different areas. The Progress Party, with its core interests such as health, care for the elderly, the police and the military, does not find it entirely necessary to allocate a great deal of money to other welfare tasks. Let me give you an example: the cultural field is to be cut down by 42.8 p.m. on the alternative budget of the Advance Party. That's about 800 million. kr. The newspapers are not to receive press support, they are not to have newspaper offers, Norwegian films are not to be supported. That's how I could keep going and take all the areas on the cultural side. In fact, some cultural offerings are unprofitable, in the sense that you don't make money on them. But I can assure the Advancement Party that they give many others pleasures, including: in the form of inspiration and belonging to a community. Culture offers cannot always be managed according to the market principle, and therefore the state must provide support to ensure that we receive cultural services at all. It's part of our welfare arrangements, that money from the state gives us the opportunity to get cultural services. It is also interesting to read that the Progress Party is a little dissatisfied with the fact that the Centre parties cooperate with the Workers' Party this time. Through its alternative budget, the Progress Party would offer the centremates both tax relief and strengthening of the municipal offer. Fraternity long live! The central parties could get a tax relief of NOK 8.7 billion, but the proposal on how to strengthen the municipal offer seems somewhat sought. In fact, the draft budget of the Progress Party states that if you go ahead with their tax system and their pay system, you will see cuts as an increase. But it's probably a long time ahead – and hopefully a time that won't come. Our municipalities actually live from day to day, and not to be able to eat once in the future. One of the issues that the Progress Party is not particularly concerned about is whether we have enough labour to solve all the challenges. With a cash support system that subtracts labour from health care, inter alia: out of active employment, and with a high level of employment, it is difficult to get people to work in health, care and in nursing homes. But either this is a problem that the Progress Party does not want to find a solution, or they respond with greater productivity. Does this mean that the caregivers should spend less time with the elderly? And since labour immigration is a non-theme of the Progress Party, there is no solution either. Speaking of labour immigration: the progress party is probably not entirely dormant, because if the workers come from Sweden, Denmark or Finland and are entrepreneurs who want to build road installations near the border, it is OK that they come. The promotion party is so eager to spend money abroad that they even want to build – for Norwegian taxpayers’ money – road systems in Sweden for the Swedes. The Labour Party is engaged in cooperation with the trade unions and is willing to support the rights negotiated, inter alia. in collective agreements. The party seeking to destroy such systems. They say no to waiting pay, as usual, and the sick pay scheme itself has to pay large amounts of – and it is as well-known good progress party policy. In an article today, the representative Carl I. Hagen came to say that the best thing for the Norwegian population is what the Advance Party wants. And then I have to ask myself, is it best for the Norwegian population to reduce cultural services, reduce rural labour force, increase interest rates and pay the sick in order to get a grant to be away from work? I can't see it. In my post I have tried to highlight the back of the Progress Party's alternative budget proposals, some of the issues that the representative, Siv Jensen, did not address in his post. I understand that it is difficult for the Advance Party to show the back. Now the Labour Party budget has turned upside down and down – all the problems have been identified, highlighted and commented on. I think it is time for the Progress Party's alternative budget to be highlighted from all sides, and I should like to take part in this and help with the best I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e287	In its proposal for a State budget, the Government proposed to mirror the VAT system. This means that everyone who does not currently pay VAT on services should do so hereafter. In order to get to the goal of the negotiations in the workers' party centre block, we got a lot of exceptions. Circus does not have to pay VAT, aviation does not have to pay VAT, travel life does not have to pay VAT, access tickets to alpine facilities are not subject to VAT and amusement parks do not have to pay VAT – and that is good! But Tifoli has to pay VAT – understand who can! A stationary tifoli, i.e. an amusement park which has the same equipment as a tifoli, albeit larger, shall not pay any VAT, while on a tifoli which travels to the ‘extremely naked island’ in the districts, yes, where the children are to pay VAT. But if you live in Oslo or in Kristiansand and you go to a amusement park, then the children there will not pay any VAT – a bit of a sense of value! And then these representatives cling in their heads and wonder why people are moving out of the districts. It was said in the paper last week that there has never been more movement from the three Northern Norwegian states than today. The gift from the Workers' Party – of course, in addition to diesel and petrol taxes, everything that affects districts particularly hard, where we have a world record – is that the entertainment the children have in the districts should be charged an additional fee. Can the representative Fossum, if possible, explain the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e297	The representative Kenneth Svendsen made a somewhat special claim. I hope that's not true, because it can't be that borderline cases in VAT legislation should be expressed in a special sense – that if you're in favour of VAT on tifoli, you have one view of value, and if you're in favour of VAT on circuses, you have a different view of value. Actually, it's not like that. Another thing the representative Kenneth Svendsen said was that he understood well that people moved from the districts because one has a working party that proposes VAT systems where one does not exempt tivoli from VAT. It can't be like that either. There are completely different reasons why people move out of the districts than whether or not they have tefolia there. I think that the representative of Kenneth Svendsen and I can agree on that. I can assure the representative Kenneth Svendsen that if a system had been put in place which he and his party intended to do in relation to agriculture, and that in addition some additions to North Norway would not be paid to the municipalities, he would see a race of people who would move elsewhere. I think you're going to take that seriously, instead of going on a frontier rise in a special VAT system that the department is actually going to look at, to find out the boundaries. I believe that people should be the savior of the system that the Progress Party has set up, rather than of a VAT system from the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e306	Let me just start by saying that I think Grethe Fossum made a very good contribution tonight where I can sign on a lot – a settlement with parts of the Advance Party's policy that I think were in place, and that was both well-founded and well-defined. There's just a few points I could imagine challenging Grethe Fossum on. Sometimes we meet ourselves in the door, whether we are in position or in opposition – it affects us all from time to time, I think. One theme that Grethe Fossum was very committed to when the previous government ruled was in relation to a concrete proposal that the then government had through Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, to add the parental deduction to the child's pension. At that time Svarstad Haugland met in part very sharp criticism from Grethe Fossum and others in the Workers' Party. Now the Labour Party does the same in its original budget proposal, and my question to Grethe Fossum must then naturally be: what has changed since then, and why is Grethe Fossum so silent about this? Point two concerns culture, which also Grethe Fossum was in. This is a topic for which she has been admirably fighting for many years, perhaps without getting any particular clarification on her priorities in relation to her own party group. I want to ask her a question. It was the center that actually had to do to get a raise of 75 million. kr on the cultural budget. Does the Financial Committee feel that it is difficult to know that the centre parties need to put cultural resources in place? And second, does she support her own Minister of Culture, who publicly expresses the hope that the budgetary priorities of the Centre Party will be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e315	It's often we say and do things that are used to us in other ways – that's the way it is. In the case of the care allowance included in the child's pension, at least I personally had a fear that it would cause the child's pension to become so high that it would be difficult to price and pay it. I have nothing in principle against it being put in there, but I see absolutely the problems that it costs a lot of money to price and pay the child's pension. That was the practical reason for that. Now that we've got this proposal, there's no fundamental resistance to it, but simply a practical resistance. Now it's the way it is, and then the representative agrees, since his government proposed this earlier. The second issue relates to culture. I want to say that there always has to be two more for a tango, and it's always the way that the ladies do it backwards and in heels shoes, so they have a bigger challenge. But it's the way that the Workers' Party and Center have merged into a 75-million priority. kr in terms of culture, and I think we should all enjoy it together, both the Labour Party and the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e324	The representative Fossum claimed in his post that education and research are things that are prioritised by labor party government. Of course, such a priority would be Right on, but then it is in harmony between word and action. State Council Gist said earlier today in its article: ‘The voters often feel that we politicians need to be more concerned with action than with talk. I agree." Those are wise words, I'll actually go so far as to say that it was the two wisest sentences in the Council of State. It may be bad to say it that directly, but I'm a little in doubt if the Labour Party has intended in practice to carry out the many good words they've had about education and research. Let me take two concrete examples and ask two specific questions to the representative Fossum. It's the only debt that we were all about in the Storting this year, that we were going up in research on the OECD average over five years. Now the budget for a year is about to be agreed – we probably don't see convergence with the OECD average. My first question is this: is the objective of increasing the OECD average over five years, i.e. the four remaining years, still stuck? The other debt is issued by the Workers' Party when we debated the recruitment message for the teacher's profession. The representative, Rune Kristiansen, from the Labour Party – after the evening post – then said that the Labour Party, in addition to the pay rise, proposes different measures to improve the working conditions of the teachers, and that these are estimated to cost NOK 1.5 billion each year for a five-year period. This - it's a simple calculation - is an extra 7.5 billion kroner during a five-year period. When there are no signs of this lifting in the first year, does the Labour Party stand at the 7.5 billion and get them distributed over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e338	I think very many political differences go to school and education. I can see that we have some common things that we want to do, like this with research in relation to both the future and within the school system. And the Workers' Party, as the Council of State said earlier today, is committed to research development until 2005. The representative of Løvik can be sure of that. With regard to what he asked for in connection with the recruitment message, this is a sum that is unknown to me. However, when the Workers' Party went in for the recruitment message and included a number of measures in it, it means that we intend to follow it up. It's easier to follow it up now when we're in government, and it'll be done. But if the sum is NOK 7.5 billion, I will neither promise nor say is right right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e345	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e348	It will be known that the problems in Norwegian transport are many and sometimes very serious. The seriousness of the situation has been underlined by various accidents in the sector during the last year. In addition, there has been almost a constant operational crisis within, for example: the railway sector in Norway. Traveling around this country, rediscovered tunnels, half-complete bridge projects, incomplete road sections throughout Norway – this is a laughing matter for a general public. In the light of these experiences, the Labour Party's proposals to the budget for transport were incomprehensible — and indeed almost irresponsible. The serious situation in Norwegian transport will be met by the Workers' Party by a reduction of approx. 660 million. kr on the transport budget, and if you take the technical things when moving to the county municipality, we are approaching NOK 1 billion less than in the current year. In fact, this budget is lower than all budgets in the 1990s, and it is far from addressing the challenges facing Norwegian transport. Therefore, the budget was also presented with headshake from all — absolutely all — who have the smallest indication of the state of Norwegian transport. It is obvious that in a very short time the Labour Party has somehow lost any contact with the situation in Norwegian transport. Let me give you two examples. First of all, the aftermath related to the maintenance of our roads was NOK 8 billion at the start of the year 2000. Now, when we go out of this year -- or into the next one -- it's going to be $9.3 billion. This, of course, leads to a lack of resources for the necessary fire safety and upgrading of our tunnels. And the second example: In the Bergen area, the fire department has ordered Hordaland Road Offices to carry out certain fire safety measures in tunnels. And the following is to read in St. pp. No 1 from the Ministry of Transport: ‘Although there has been a local agreement to postpone the heaviest measures until 2004, there is a need of 120 million. kr for the period 2001-2003 to comply with the requirements. Of these, 50 million is needed. 2001 kr. On a national basis, it is set at a total of 40 million. kr for fire protection of existing tunnels in 2001. This means that there will be room to implement only a small part of the measures imposed on Bergen.» When you read this and see what you're being followed by money, you almost don't think what you're reading. And it says itself that this is completely unacceptable. It actually surprises us in the Right that you can write that kind of thing and at the same time cut the appropriations for the same sector. Yes, it's unheard of! The year’s draft budget is also the last in the four-year period. One can therefore also evaluate the achievement of the objectives in relation to the plan. It's really adorable reading. We have not achieved one single target, neither in terms of reduced transport costs, nor – even worse – in terms of traffic damage and death. Of course, this should not come as a surprise to anyone. Of course, the failure to achieve the target is linked to the cuts in the appropriations allocated to the transport sector. The negative trend has been over several years, but the submitted budget of the Labour Party for 2001 is the worst in the period. Through the conciliation with the centre, the budget has been strengthened somewhat. It deserves to be praised by the centre of jam. In fact, it seems that the centre is more useful for Norwegian transport outside government offices than they were when they were in their time. The right has, over the entire period, tried to increase the appropriations for transportation, unfortunately without a majority in this room. We also do that in the 2001 budget, but we can only see here and now that we do not get a majority this time either. In addition to increased financial resources, there is a need for significant reorganisation measures in Norwegian transport. It is necessary to streamline the use of the resources we have. This may include, inter alia: be made through increased competition in the transport sector. There is absolutely no reason to maintain heavy public monopolies when it is obvious that consumers will be much better served by more players and increased competition. It is not the case that the Post is for the Post and NSB for the NSB. In fact, they are for consumers in this country. It is therefore totally unacceptable for consumers to suffer because the Labour Party believes that State monopolies are more important than providing good services to consumers. Right doesn't mean that, but it may surprise no one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e379	At this point in such a large and general debate as the financial debate is, a person usually tends to distribute characteristics of the debate, perhaps not primarily here in the Chamber, but very often in the neighbouring rooms. And it is well said today, as is usual for such characteristics, that the debate has not been very dramatic. And that's just the point. The aim of concluding a budgetary compromise which ensures a majority in the budget as a whole, for the whole relationship between the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, is precisely to remove drama. We also see that heavy financial analysts give us praise for having achieved this, among other things. because the Storting thus contributes to the fact that the economy is so under control that we, for example. does not allow the budgetary procedure in the Storting to become an additional driving force at higher interest rates. Only here we've achieved quite a lot. In fact, the pressure on interest rates and instability in the economy is what ultimately may have hit all individuals in this society hardest, but also the collectives who are to carry a large part of the public welfare programme, for example. the municipalities. There are, as I mentioned in a previous line, certain ritual exercises around such a compromise, for example. how much one party has had to give, and how much the other party has got through. It is useful to underline what has been the political starting point, and this is how many billions have been moved on during this budgetary agreement. And there's a lot of ways to think about it. The most reasonable thing is perhaps to say that if we keep the changes in the VAT package outside, it is booked on the move of approx. NOK 8.3 billion in the context of this budget compromise. But this isn't the most important thing. The most important thing is that, for the second consecutive year, the Labour Party and the intermediate parties have done the job of securing a majority for the entire budget. Last year, the Workers' Party set it up for a minority government, this year the middle parties have set it up against the Government of the Workers' Party. We are one year before the elections, so we should not give in to strong speculations about what will result from long-term cooperation in Norwegian policy, nor what form such long-term cooperation can be expected to take. But it is obvious that there is a political centre of gravity with the Labour Party and the middle parties on the one hand and the Right and the Advance Party on the other. We see this most strongly in the distribution policy. It's obvious that the Progress Party and Right-wing speakers like to talk about taxes and tax levels, they don't really talk about distribution. For my part, I am, for example, pleased that we have now received a temporary tax on dividends, even though the percentage is somewhat lower than the Government proposed. Not primarily for the sake of higher taxes, but because dividends from shares are some of the things that generate the greatest difference in Norwegian society. It was therefore also a main element when the Stortinge dealt with the so-called difference message. And then an important dividing line is not just what's going on in expenditure and income, but how the distribution policy is happening and who's going on with income and expenditure. Then comes the cut of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the sick pay system and to the poor of the world in a special relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e392	As the representative Fossum spent nine and a half minutes of his ten-minute post on the Advance Party, I will try to be straightforward and use four and a half minutes of my five assigned to the Workers' Party. There has been a lot of talk in this debate, and most of it may have been said, so I'm just going to give some examples of what the Prime Minister said earlier today, and in a way was also said last year by the Prime Minister. I would like to quote from the negotiations in the financial debate last year, where Jens Stoltenberg says: ‘We have done so because we have had an impact on important changes in the budget, changes that will contribute to fairer distribution and more sharing. We are thus committed to turning the direction of Norwegian policy." Then Jens Stoltenberg opens his post in Stortinget today by saying that this year we have concluded a budgetary settlement with the central parties that contains fair distribution, the bet of the times on the municipalities, more and cheaper kindergartens, and that the Workers' Party has done its job in relation to interest rates. This is where I get a lot of pain compared to what's being said. If that was the case that last year the Workers' Party had found a new direction in relation to the development of most people in this country, and that they have now found it again, then I become very skeptical. For everyone, the trend has been in 2000. The entire remuneration of employees has been fed up by interest rate developments. On average, all municipalities are struggling to get their budgets in place, etc. Kinderhagen e.g. has become more expensive. So everything that Stoltenberg said in the financial debate last year that everything would be so much better this year has failed. Now he says the same thing, and I don't think I need to be any big gamblers to say that the same development we will see in 2001. Local authorities will have equal difficulty in getting their budgets into port, kindergartens will be more expensive, interest rates will rise, and there will be no fair distribution, for families with children and pensioners will come out with a very large reduction in 2001. Because it's not like the Workers' Party and the Centre parties are now trying to take from the rich and give to the poor. I could have given a whole lot of examples of that, but I'll just take one. This is the taboo of the Workers' Party in the case of birth money. I have on behalf of the committee asked the ministry about who is receiving birth grant. The figures from the department are clear: they're the ones who earn the most, they're the ones who earn the most birth money over 6 G. Of course, those who pick up the least are those who have the lowest income. And then they say in this equation that the municipalities have got increased frames. I'll give an example there as well. In the family budget, the funds of the family protection offices in the counties, which were previously earmarked, have now moved to the framework transfers to the municipalities. So they say there are increased framework transfers. They say nothing about the disappearance of earmarked funds. Then this comes with a short-term cost of industrial buildings. So here's the Center Party and negotiates a deal with the Workers' Party, which is directly hostile to districts. 10 pst. cyclical taxes on industrial buildings are the one and only districts that will lose weight. And then they get dressed in their heads because people move from the districts! I'll do another example. The Labour Party is in government. In general, they increase taxes and charges for all in this country for 2001. Today I got my regional newspaper, where it was shown to be three examples. Three municipalities in the Nord-Trøndelag will next year increase municipal charges from 10 to 14 pst. Everyone introduces property taxes in addition to what the Government has adopted for the following year. And who governs in these municipalities? It's the Workers' Party. In all aspects of the Workers' Party is represented, introducing taxes and taxes is the only idea they have. And I've understood the drawing: the easiest way to rule and rule with people is to make them poor. It's hard to control a people who are up and have enough of their own resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e417	In the budgetary agreement between the central government and the Labour Party, 31 million have been added to the justice sector. to lawyers' salaries in order to hold a previously concluded agreement on a contingency plan for the remuneration rate. The agreement was concluded between the Association of Advocates and the Ministry of Justice of the Central Government. The police and officers' seat will be strengthened by 17 million. kr to the means of operation, which will be included well. The question of whether the police should have their own helicopter service will be raised as a matter of their own in the spring of 2001. Grants for special legal aid measures will be increased by 2 million. kr to the student-rights assistance measures. The students do a good job and get a lot out of the money. The Christian People's Party will also stress the importance of continuing the reorganisation launched by the Bondevik government in the justice sector. Security and legal certainty are fundamental values in society. Crime is an attack on the security and integrity of individuals and on community values. The causes of crime are complex and diverse, and therefore different measures are needed in many areas of society. We have to have many thoughts in our head at the same time to find the best and most effective measures, and there are no simple solutions. The Community needs good living rules which point to the individual's responsibility for their own actions and, in addition, to the individual's responsibility for the best interests of the Community. Prevention needs to be run across institutions and disciplines in broad cooperation. There is a lot of knowledge about risk factors. We need to be able to make better use of these knowledge. Many regard professional secrecy as an obstacle to constructive cooperation. Then we have to make sure that the obligation of professional secrecy is properly formulated. Whereas the obligation of professional secrecy must protect individuals while not hindering important interdisciplinary cooperation; Once a criminal act has been committed, the Christian People's Party believes that it is important to have rapid proceedings at all stages, from police investigations through the courts and to the execution of the sentence. Priority should be given to young people in the judiciary. It is particularly important that first-time criminals experience that society responds resolutely, even if the action should not be so serious, using the zero tolerance principle. It can help prevent a further criminal racetrack. Learning conflict resolution and the use of school mediation are good measures, both for prevention and for targeting those who tend to be at risk. Furthermore, the Councils of Conflict have been shown to deliver good results and should be used more. Human dignity obliges us to help criminals to become good citizens of society. Prison sentences must be designed in such a way that the convicted person is challenged for social rehabilitation through both self-help and positive, individually adapted programmes. But the rehabilitation of criminals is a demanding job. The reform of continuing education and training can be an important contribution here. Getting a new chance of training and training with work as a goal will have a positive effect. But if you want to succeed, it's important to have good protection and a real opportunity for work and housing. It helps prevent relapse and counteract the continuation of a criminal pattern of action. Every year between 7,000 and 9,000 women are raped in Norway. Of the reported rapes, only one in ten men are convicted. Rape is the most underreported crime committed. Increases in the number of notifications are now reported. That's good. However, it will be an important task for the police, prosecution authorities and courts to ensure that these notifications are effectively followed up. There may still be some lack of both competence and willingness to prioritize such matters. These are matters on which the Justice Committee has put the spotlight and which still need to be followed up by the Ministry of Justice. Attitude-building work in general is also important to make people understand the severity of such actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e446	We are constantly saying that there is no difference between the political parties in this country. Claims that one no longer sees the difference between the Labour Party and the other parties have been met, clearly documented by the Financial Institution and this debate. The Budget Agreement between the Centre and the Workers' Party confirms that there are only small issues that differ between these parties. But there's a great distance between the budget friends on the one hand and the right hand side on the other. The whole educational community has been characterized by extensive reforms over the past ten years. The working party takes on important values when we design new policies. When it comes to education and education, our values and ideals of equality and solidarity have led to a recognition that it is through equal opportunities to obtain education that the most important foundation for a solidarity society is laid. It is precisely through the common sphere that we can help to smooth out people with different social and cultural backgrounds – a school where the director's son can join his industrial worker's son, where they can mutually stimulate and help each other. And in a society where knowledge and skills are becoming increasingly important to workers, and thus to business, too, education is at the heart of education – also to contribute to educational democratisation in our country. The budget agreement increases the framework for education, and that's good. But the priority is strongly in the direction of strengthening private schools and our universities. It is well and good that universities get better finances, but in the future it is also important to recognize our high-spherical spheres, which also have difficulty getting ends to meet. In the next round, there needs to be a stronger bet on our public high-spherical spheres. The budget agreement also provided for an increase in research spending. For years now, there has been a broad agreement to invest more strongly in research. When this option is confirmed, a total research fund of DKK 7.5 billion will be provided. And that's the real dimensions over there. Now it is said to manage these funds in a good way, so that both the public sector and the business community can bring good results in the future. Finally, I note that several representatives from the private business community believe that after the agreement it is too expensive to stay in Norway – even the one who says he will make Norway cheaper. It is the Norwegian tax system that brings these business leaders on such thoughts, in particular the new tax on dividends and wealth taxes. Of course, it is quite possible to disagree with parts of the Norwegian tax system. Most of us get annoyed when we experience a system that, in many ways, feels a little unfair. But what would it be like in this country if everyone were threatening to move out every time they thought they would happen to what they think is a wrong? Of course, I have respect for business leaders and the efforts many of them make. But such reactions stand in stark contrast to industry's commitment to the social debate. Yes, even from the church, some business leaders have called on the rich to take responsibility and to exercise a good spirit of society. This is, in my opinion, a double morality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e463	The day before the government presented its draft budget this year, the Minister of Church, Education and Research Giske proclaimed himself to be the budget winner of the year. Then he withdrew from the battlefield and has not made any sound to defend the budget proposal he himself has submitted, until today. That defense was designed over the reading attack is the best defense. In the meantime, virtually all of the University and Research Norway have criticised the draft budget in disintegration. And the Council of State's response one time he performed publicly, at the Research Association's annual seminar in October, was that the critics, including all the university rectors in this country, had not understood anything. Exactly the same answer has been used by the Council of State when it has been criticised for other parts of the proposal, including: a church budget that is very creative in that it presupposes the conclusions of a big message that the Council of State has not yet delivered to the Stortinget. In these areas, the budgetary agreement has fortunately corrected the worst distortions. There has been an increase in university budgets of 210 million. kr, and in that context I will give honor to the Left, who over and above someone has stood on to get this done. It's a respectable effort. The government's draft budget for private schools for the purpose of both wage compensation and follow-up of general price and wage development assumptions has also been strongly addressed. On this point, too, budgetary conciliation has put things in place quite a bit. It's a pleasure. But I wouldn't fail to notice that it would have been much easier for the center to get through for all its heart issues in this area if they had cooperated in a different direction. It would also have been possible to achieve an even better budget for following up the research notification, its assumptions and its objectives. It would also have been much easier to get an impact on the principle of non-discrimination between private and public operators. Let me also mention a detail that reinforces the idea of a rather unusually low budget proposal in the areas of research and education. The budget proposal reads a reference to Norwegian citizens and students at foreign or international schools per year. Today, there is a right to receive grants for the coverage of school fees and grants for supplementary education in Norwegian and other subjects. Without further comment, without a single reason, the Government in its draft budget says that this support should be removed. One — the one for complementary education — still in the middle of the school year, the other with effect from the second half of 2001. I hope that the addition of the Workers' Party together with the centre parties has done in the Stortinget on this budget chapter, also means that it is intended to remove this completely meaningless proposal. But it goes into a picture that is beginning to become well-known in the policy of the current Minister of Education. He has been sitting for quite a while on the application from the French School here in Oslo without giving any answer, despite the fact that Prime Minister Stoltenberg discussed the problem with his colleague when he was visiting France earlier this year. This proposal further hampers the economic situation of the few international schools we have. It also fits well into the picture on the point that the Minister of Education has proposed to reduce the fee grant for foreign students quite dramatically — and this in a time when everyone agrees that globalisation and internationalisation represent a challenge for Norwegian youth, for the future of Norwegian society. In such a situation, it is proposed to remove all schemes that stimulate Norwegian children and young people to choose international education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e482	‘Integration is the best defence’, said the representative, Wage. Yes, in his posts there was largely an attack and no thing of the Right's policy, so then he thinks it's a good sign of an article. The government of Stoltenberg presented a government budget in a good social-democratic spirit of distribution. The increase is currently taking decisions which are largely in line with this. That the result is perceived to be in good spirit, too, would give good hope of sensible cooperation in the future – cooperation that gives good results for the world its poor and needy, and cooperation that benefits most people, and for those who need it the most in Norway. Distribution policy is something more than distribution policy — it is taking from those who have the most, to give to those who have the least. I am happy for the budget on behalf of the lives we can fear, and the suffering we can share in averting through a vaccination program for children in the world. I also like to be on behalf of those in need who are not to be penalised in addition for a reduction in pay, and on behalf of those who have been out of work and those who have resigned from the supplier industry who can receive labour market measures. The right-hand side's alternative would include frame these groups. The fact that the budget is also responsible and will help to keep interest rates down is not to despise most people either. General policy also has the most to say for family members. Many have spoken about it in this debate. In addition, today we decided to increase the state contribution to kindergartens for children under the age of three by 2 percentage points. This should and should lead to a reduction in parental payment. The goal is to increase the state bill to 50 pst. and the municipal allowance of 30 p.m., so that the parental payment can be reduced monthly. I am pleased that the Minister for Family Affairs of a few weeks ago in Question Time confirmed that she will follow closely with and if necessary come back with proposals for changes of promises if no increase in government support leads to a lower parental payment. There are funds for 6,000 new kindergartens in 2001. With these places, we'll get even closer to the goal of full child-care coverage. It can't be said too often: it's only when everyone who wants it has access to a kindergarten they can afford to pay, that the goal of full child care coverage has been achieved. Man doesn't live by bread alone, it's called. It's true to differing degrees, depending on people's economic situation, and of course depending on priorities. On a visit to East Timor earlier in the fall, I got a lot of understanding that bread – or perhaps a little bit more basic physical needs – was what took people the most, either they got help from the world's food program to survive or they could work for 2.5 kg of rice per. day or after time take to feed themselves with rice or vegetables they had grown. They were also busy getting hold of the houses before the rainy season. And they took us with dancing and singing children – that is, culture, something to live for. It was good to see in practice that, among other things. Norwegian support appears and helps. And it was good to listen to the U.S. Secretary of State when she did things for increased Norwegian efforts and for work to get more out of the money. I'm going to take the right side another way. Getting more out of the money is also a challenge for us here at home. Therefore, we should renew the public sector so that we have more time to care for old, to teach children and to use less for paperwork and reporting. We should also get more out of the money in areas that give us something to live for, among other things. culture. For this reason, the Minister of Culture has undertaken a comprehensive project to assess the position and make proposals for changes. In addition, the Culture Budget states that the Government will present a holistic plan for the upgrading of Culture-Noreg in later documents and budgets. We are told in the Worker Party's programme that there will be a strong annual escalation by 2005. I'm glad and proud of that. That the reconciliation between the center and the Workers' Party gave increased opportunities for cultural purposes gives us good hope that we can get more numbers for this in this room. Finally, I would like to point to some areas that will be upgraded as early as next year: All children in the primary school, approx. 580,000, will be provided with a so-called ‘cultural backpack’ which will lead to a sharp increase in children’s and young people’s access to cultural experiences. All libraries shall be able to provide broadband services, and the libraries shall increasingly become meeting places ensuring all access to such services. The film sector shall be reorganised and upgraded. It's about getting more out of the resources we have and adding new ones. Norwegian film production is important, not least for the preservation of Norwegian language and culture. There's an increase in press support. So we are in the process of upgrading the cultural sector in Norway, and upgrading is to be strengthened in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e519	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party has contributed to the majority of good VAT reform. By halving VAT on food, you ensure that families who spend most of their income on food come out better. These are the center parts satisfied with. However, I would like to highlight another important part of the adjustments in VAT reform. For the Christian People's Party, avoiding VAT on travel and public transport was an important matter, as the Government had proposed. This is very important for a state such as Upland, which is a distinctly touristic group. The government also proposed that amusement parks and alpine facilities should be subject to VAT – not only low rates in line with the majority of the tourism industry, but normal rates. I have a hard time getting the reason for this. In the districts in particular, the different parts of the tourism industry are highly dependent on each other, and the hotels that primarily have business as a customer base are not the most dependent on VAT exemptions. Those who target private customers, individuals and tourists, on the other hand, depend on exemption from VAT. And these hotels, once again, depend on the tourist attractions that attract people to the place, being interesting. In the South it is surveys that indicate that 40 pst. by all those buying accommodation services, visit the Animal Park. In my country, the situation is the same in the case of alpine plants. A very large part of the winter tourists come because of the alpine facilities. If the centre lots had not secured exemption from VAT for alpine installations, many installations would have very problematic and, perhaps, also at risk of closure, with major ring-effects for local business and housing. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party and Centre were able to benefit from VAT exemptions for the entire travel industry, including alpine facilities and amusement parks. Through the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party, the Centre has ensured a majority in favour of a better environmental policy. The energy savings effort is increased by 60 million. kr, while increasing the electricity charge by one ear more than the Government proposed. It will provide increased incentives to bet on energy savings. It's probably not to hide that we nordics are wasting electricity on our neighboring countries and have not been hurt by saving incentives. The budget agreement has also secured 190 million. to strengthen public transport. Collective trips have risen more in price than most of the last few years, much more than fuel. At the same time, we are in danger of getting worse from next year. That's why it's very positive that we've been able to set of 190 million. kr to maintain and strengthen the collective offer next year. It is a step in the right direction, both for road safety and for the environment. The budget agreement has also secured a majority of 10 million. kr more to the Rescue Company and it has secured a majority of 115 million. kr more for national road investment. Yesterday, the Lærdal tunnel opened on the E16 tribal road and the ferry-free link between Oslo and Bergen. In Upland through Valdres, there are several sections of E16 that need upgrading in order to take on the increased traffic that will now result from the tunnel. Upgrading is also about implementing the E16 tribal road decision – no new debate on this! The Christian People's Party also ensured better conditions for non-governmental organisations through the budgetary agreement. Firstly, these organisations are releasing the cyclical tax. It would have hit hard. The organisations have no product on which to increase the price and no compensation from the state. We have also ensured that the impact of the VAT conversion on organisations should be investigated and evaluated. But perhaps most importantly, we have ensured that not all the dramatic cuts in the support of the voluntary organisations are adopted. A number of voluntary teams and organisations within the budget of different ministries are ensured by the same level of support as last year. The attempt of the Labour Party to reduce support to the voluntary sector does not receive a majority. ‘Friendly Norway won the budget’ was a headline in the media. ‘The Centre-Worker Party settlement turned non-governmental organisations from losers to winners in the battle for the budget crowns.’ Last but not least: children’s and young people’s interventions, with an increase of 31 million. kr, together with the strengthening of cultural activities and the uptake of grants for work on drug problems, is an important contribution to the growing environment of children and young people, with which the Christian People's Party is pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e540	After the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the middle parties became known, the impression could be that the defence is under political fire from all sides. Words like ‘candals’ have been used by Jan Petersen in Dagbladet on 24 November. In particular, the situation in the Air Force is mentioned. The reason is 100 million cuts. kr on the operating budget of the Air Force. With regard to the air defence cut, it is important to point out the following: it is mainly more expensive fuel prices that make the flight situation difficult in today’s air defence. At the end of the year, the Air Force will be provided with money through the budget regrouping proposal and the ageing so that they can replenish their fuel stocks. Therefore, the resource availability of air defence at the entry into the next year is significantly better than this year. I understand that the right view is sad to be without influence on next year's budget, and budget cuts are very rarely popular. But claiming that it is a scandal to the country or a threat to defense, gives a false picture of reality. There are few areas of Norwegian policy that have undergone as much changes as the Defence Agency has undergone in the last ten years. At the same time, there are few areas where reality has changed as much as in security policy. In 1989 the world was characterized by bipartition and cold war. The Warsaw Pact was the backbone of our own alliance, NATO. Ten years later, in 1999, three former members of the Warsaw Pact – Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic – became members of NATO. But while the 1990s were marked by wing revolutions, new democracies and NATO enlargement, we have experienced the worst war in Europe since World War II. Both the decline of the Warsaw Pact and the war in the former Yugoslavia show the enormous changes Europe and the world have undergone in the 1990s. When the world changes, it forces change in our policies. Our values and our goals stand firm, but our instruments must always be careful are appropriate. I am therefore proud of the Norwegian defence and of Norway's participation in peacekeeping work. When we're out in the world, we're always told how happy you are with our young peacekeepers – how good they are to talk to the people and create confidence and understanding, how seriously they take the tasks, how much creativity they show to get the tasks done as best they can. They get their pay, and that's good, but I'd like to say a thousand thanks to those who've been out, those who're now out, and to those who're going out in the next round. In this year's budget, it's set at 1,922 million. kr to international operations. From April to October, Norway, together with Denmark, shall head the KFOR Headquarters in Kosovo. This is important and correct. It is important in the current situation for Kosovo and Yugoslavia. But it is also important for Norway – we are helping to create stability and peace on our own continent. It is not that Norway and Europe are unaffected by the wars and conflicts in the former Yugoslavia. It is morally right for Norway to participate in the work to ensure peace, even if it is in another country. But it also has to do with our own security, and it is expected of us by our allies. However, it is also important for Norway and Norwegian defence because the management of such an operation will provide us with vital competences. That's why there's absolutely no contradiction between participating out there and at home. Participation in international operations will also influence Norway in the international arena. Without Norwegian participation in NATO and the UN or without Norwegian cooperation with the EU, we weaken Norway’s role and influence internationally. In short, Norwegian participation gives new hope for peaceful development in future Yugoslavia, and it gives Norwegian influence. Next year, we will discuss the ‘new defence’ and the changes that are right and necessary as a result of the new era. What we can be sure of, however, is that international involvement and the need for international participation will not decrease. We should therefore be proud of – and not blackmail – the situation for our own defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e561	The next speaker is Ingvald Godal. But after what the President can record, Godal is not present in the Chamber, nor any of the next speakers on the list of speakers. Then we go to a three-minute trip – Gunnar Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e564	Thanks for the promotion! The budget currently presented by the Financial Committee is a budget which ensures financial policy security. The interest rate is now likely to be downwards, unemployment and price increases are under control. The social partners have implemented realistic wage settlements. Norway has a good starting point. I assume that others will bring forward the possible negative aspects of the budget agreement. I've chosen to look at some positive things. For the first time, the taxes on petrol and diesel have been reduced, with 1,20 kroner and 1,13 kroner including VAT. Never have the transfers to the municipalities been bigger, and it's important, because it's the municipalities that meet people in care, care, education and much, much more. VAT reform is a major and comprehensive and, in fact, a matter of its own. The introduction of VAT on services is necessary and implemented across Europe. But, of course, the introduction creates major changes for certain industries, and adjustments in VAT rates were necessary. That the food tax is reduced to 12 pst. is important, not least for large families of children. Taxes and taxes are always a difficult question. What must be the starting point is justice and payment by ability. Dividends tax is only for this year and next year, and for 2002 a new tax system is to be created. It'll be an exciting debate. In my opinion, the reform must result in a reduction of taxes on labour and sweat. There is no justification for a system in which capital income is taxed by 28 p.m., while labour income can reach 55 p.m. A more equal tax rate and a discount of perhaps up to NOK 100000-130000 before paying taxes, in my opinion, could provide a fairer tax system. In the long term, taxes in Norway must be more similar to those in our neighbouring countries and countries elsewhere in Europe. It is not possible to operate with such a large deviation at a time when people are so mobile. It is also important for industry to eliminate the investment levy. The fact that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre does not lead to a levy on electricity used in manufacturing in industry is joyous. In addition, there is agreement to halve the low rate of the SO2 fee. The reason why this has happened is a video from the trade and industry. In East-Agder, the trade movement at Arendal Smelteverk and Norton in Lillesand have used democracy, so professional-political cooperation was heard. It is constructive from the trade unions and companies that have emissions of SO2 that they do not want fees to be eliminated but a fund that is earmarked for cleaning, and a better internal and external environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e585	Then the president records that we can go back to the regular list of speakers, with five-minute posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e588	I am sorry that I am billing myself at the time. And this I've been waiting for all day! There is reason to rejoice at the budgetary agreement between the Centre Party and the Labour Party. It's at the intersection of the center and the Labour Party that we find the best solutions for the country, as I see it. Norwegian business is found in a globalised economy. That means that we all have to learn to live in change. Politicians' task is not to stand up to changes, but to facilitate the tolling and growth of these changes. I like the expression: if you come to the mill first, you have to sympathize with the current. There is a lot to fetch from by being the first non-innovator. That's what I get out of this expression. Large businessmen who are really successful point out that it is by lying in the front when it comes to managing changes, that they may have the hope of being closed. This means that we need to invest in increasing the ability to change both in the Norwegian industry and in the school. But such competence alone is not enough. We need tools that are proportionate to the challenges. As a result, drug use vis-à-vis Norwegian industry has to change as developments develop. It is through taking over the whole country and the resources we have, in use, that we can ensure our well-being. Not least, the use of both women and men is an obligation. Many Norwegian anchor companies are small in an international context. Hence, strong Norwegian capital environment is important to ensure access to equity. It is a cross-thinking that it is possible to contribute to the strengthening of foreign companies, but that it should be disputed to facilitate the cooperation of private and state capital to establish an investment company which can help to further develop an existing and dynamic business environment and participate in larger restructuring processes. We need patient, but also demanding capital for small and large enterprises, on and off the stock market, at home and out. We're lucky to have a resource base in our country that can form a basis for cluster construction based on the marine sector. Well-being depends on the existence of busses and jobs in the whole country, and on the fact that we have incomes that can be distributed in a way that ensures such a development. Norwegian fishing and aquaculture industries have the potential to ensure the further development of the welfare country. In some areas, we are well-developed and in the world front. In other areas, we have potential, but it has to be developed and triggered. The common denominator for triggering the potential is research and development. We must obtain funds for this purpose, and that also shows the budget. I can see that a strategy plan for Norwegian scoring has been developed that extends over four years. This concludes that 275 million public dollars are needed for research and development. Only this industry can secure us export income in the billions of years to come. Actually, it's about a new breeding adventure. This is about both new ideas and new crime. There is a guarantee of the basis for busses and work along the coast. But it's going to be more than just a job to put the whole country into action. I don't think it's the length of cappuccino that drives the moving current towards more densely built strokes. I actually think that's the supply of culture. I am also in favour of the fact that the various framework areas in the budget should have been allocated in their respective areas an appropriate amount to the cultural framework. I still believe that. Innovation and transformation, for which I have previously been interested in the article, need creativity. It's through access to e.g. The music ball, or the art ball it's now called, that the tiny child can meet and develop his creative sides. It's my claim that bets here will be seen in a long-term perspective when we're going to bring forward business operators who are going to be in charge of innovation and conversion. We can't afford to let be such a bet if we're going to achieve our goal of further well-being in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e607	This year it was 250 years since the composer Johann Sebastian Bach died. This has probably been marked differently across the world. Johann Sebastian Bach was a great artist and has left behind a rich material. The same thing has a lot of other artists, and they represent different forms of expression. Today, we also have many who enrich us, and these are a huge source of inspiration for our children and young people. We can then ask: what does Johann Sebastian Bach and the others have to do with the state budget? Actually, it's a good part. The State budget is the country's main policy framework for the distribution and management of public resources, i.e. an instrument to ensure that all citizens have a certain objective of education, health and social services, in short, well-being. Sometimes a financial debate like this can easily leave an impression that the budget is an objective in itself, but a budget must always be measured in relation to how it contributes to maintaining — or increasing — people’s living conditions and living standards. In our country, I have no doubt that this is the last thing that matters. A country at the top of the wealth curve must give priority to living standards and intangible values such as the counterweight to greed culture and materialism. This has many sides. I want to underline culture, voluntary organisational work and the social networks, and this is related. That's where Johann Sebastian Bach comes in. The millennium has helped to some extent to focus on culture and values of life, but most verbally, not so much on making the economic assumptions easier. That is why the Government's draft government budget for the year 2000 was a disappointment. Several have pointed this out. For the cultural effort, the proposal was a zero budget and not the promise for the culture that the Workers' Party has repeatedly announced. For the voluntary sector, the draft budget represents a dramatic downside. I would like to remind the Labour Party that the social democratic parties in countries like England, Germany and Denmark are increasingly focusing on building civil society and supporting voluntary work. When we here in Stortinget dealt with the so-called volunteering message earlier in the period, the Workers' Party was in opposition and spoke warmly for the volunteer work. It is disappointing that the Labour Party in Norway does not follow its stated intentions and follow the examples of the sister parties in other countries. We have noted the government's high profile of wanting to modernise and streamline the public sector, ignoring the need to increase voluntary and cultural efforts. One has to be done and the other isn't going to be undone. For this reason, budgetary reconciliation was a rescue both for culture and for the voluntary sector – and also for the Workers' Party. Anyone who has given up voluntary child and youth work and has participated in cultural activities knows something about what comes out of small resources. Money for culture is like fertilizer for the fielder. The central parties have wanted to take this seriously. Money for culture makes it grow. Values are created, children and young people are activated, social relations and networks are created. Twenty-three million. kr to local cultural houses means enormously to ensure further investment in the arenas for cultural development in the districts. A total of 40 million. kr to the grant scheme for children and young people in organisations contributes to a significant increase in local activity. Ten million. kr to the regional symphony orchestras mean a great deal to music life abroad, because they participate at many levels. And $8 million. kr extra to strengthen archives, libraries and museums will be an important starting point for a larger investment in this area. The paper on archives, libraries and museums, which is now being discussed, provides a strong boost over several years to strengthen these institutions in their efforts to preserve and disseminate cultural heritage and create important cultural meeting places. This is also money that gives ring-effects. The same goes for literature for children and young people, rescue of the culture boat «Innvik», etc. – we could still have the outline. Seventy-five million. cultural crowns give up again in a variety of ways. The same will be true of increased spending on other ministries' budgets. Appropriations for cultural and voluntary social activities over the state budget not only trigger financial resources elsewhere in society, it also frees human and spiritual resources in the form of creativity and creative effort. It is preventive in more than one sense, because it produces profits and colors our everyday lives, which is not only health-promoting but also serves to mitigate conflict and bridge-building. It is not certain that Johann Sebastian Bach would care so much about this if he had lived, but any increase in the cultural budget I think he would have appreciated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e633	The State budget came without the Government having followed up the Storting decision of 16 June to submit at the same time proposals for measures to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers. The decision had its background in the understanding of the majority of the population, and in the May interpellation debate, it stated that the competition conditions for Norwegian seafarers had deteriorated significantly. There was concern about recruitment and apprenticeship places, and the time had come for an assessment of alternatives to today’s reimbursement support. However, the premises in the budget gave hope. The reimbursement aid was to be continued at an unchanged rate and at a fixed rate, and the government gave signals that it would address the problems and come back to the case. What's going on? There's a supplement number coming up. 7 and a St. Prp. No 21, where the government moves in 40 million. kr, and set out large and important fleet groups outside the scheme. The guidelines for the payment of reimbursement aid are based on a negotiating report dated 14 February 1994, and there is no contractual basis for this withdrawal. As part of the State’s commitments, the agreement states that the State will contribute 340 million. kr, and that the reimbursement shall be granted for seafarers residing in Norway who are entitled to seafarer deductions and who are employed in the competitive part of the fleet. There is no need for vessels to carry cargo, and no point in the signed agreement indicates that the agreement can be interpreted as such. Under this agreement, the guidelines were to be based on the specific points accepted and signed by all three parties on 14 February. On ships that are now being diverted from the reimbursement scheme, there is a local employment of between 1500 and 2000 Norwegian seafarers. It is justified to say that this fleet group is relatively uncompetitive! Does the Ministry and the Government at all know which ships are registered inside or outside Norway? I have here a list of 15 offshore companies registered abroad that compete for contracts only on a Norwegian base. Among them are the largest and most competitive shipping companies in the world, with the vast majority of their EU seafarers using the competitive frameworks open to by the EEA Agreement. Some of them also have Norwegian top skills in selected positions. World wide competition is even sharper, and the offshore fleet operates world wide. Does the Department have any idea of what they're doing in relation to maritime industries? Together with the bowloaders are the companies that are now hit, the ones that have gone ahead to maintain a comprehensive Norwegian maritime cluster, with owners who plough their profits back to the company and go ahead of competence development, constant environmental improvements on board, and with a real commitment to the communities from which they recruit, and the seafarers they have on the rental list. It's Coast Norway that's hit by this. Thirty-three million. are drawn from shipping companies in Rogaland and Sunnhordland, with a pen stroke and without debate, and obviously without the knowledge of the competitive situation of those who do so. The government defends the withdrawal that the scheme has been less used in 2000 than estimated. Yes, of course! It should have been obvious in May. In the coastal fleet, more than 300 jobs have been lost through flagging and during the year no less than 18 coastal freight companies have gone bankrupt – 15 more bankrupt than in a poor, roughly normal year, with similar losses of seafarers’ jobs. It is the result of the tax increases that this fleet group has received in recent years and which, in sum, exceed what they receive in reimbursement aid. Government Council Knudsen seems to believe that Norwegian seafarers can become competitive only by virtue of their professional competence. Seafarers of other countries are also skilled, and improved competition and education are now increasing competition. Professional competence develops on board. It is then necessary to facilitate a NOR fleet with a continuous Norwegian crew. Today's apprentice is going to be tomorrow's top competent officer, but then we have to secure the rootstock of Norwegian seafarers. We can't pick out the most competent people on the basis of recruitment. There is experience on board in combination with education that creates the most capable. And we are now in a situation where we are at risk of phasing out our maritime competence and leaving our coast to foreigners, with the long-term consequences it will have. I am pleased that the head of the Business Committee, Morten Lund, will be the proponents of the budget partners to remedy the damage that has not been remedied in the financial situation. This can be done by following the 16th June decision and demanding that the Government do as they were asked on 16 June, and coming back to the Stortinget with proposals for measures that can secure Norwegian seafarers' jobs and give our seafarers predictability and long-term prospects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e661	Our defense is within one of its greatest crises since the 1930s. We are about to give up the ambition of invasion defence in one part of the country and a sufficiently balanced defence in the rest of the country. The army is on fire, the marine defense no longer sails in our northern waters, and the fighter aircraft is standing on the ground, literally, with used wings. The Government’s budget proposal does not indicate that there is any visibility for 2001. On page 25 of the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence, it is clear that the necessary ammunition for education and training will be kept to an absolute minimum. Exercise activity has been reduced to maintain interoperability at a minimum level. And further, it is said, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘Reduction of fuel, spare parts, ammunition and training etc. will have a significant impact over time on the operational capability of the Defence Departments’.» The double imbalance that has been allowed to build up over a longer period of time has therefore created a critical need for conversion, and that process is to be decided in the spring session next year when we deal with the next long-term proposition of defence. Before we get this far, however, we may experience that the defense has rotted before we get enough power out of the conversion. In the current long-term, we are already DKK 1.75 billion under the assumptions of the current long-term report, as a large majority of this house joined in the spring of 1998. Already in its original form, the draft budget was at least DKK 1.2 billion under the assumptions made by both the Defence Policy Committee and the Defence Study 2000 from the Defence Manager. With this in mind, a budgetary settlement is made between the Working Party and the Centre Parties. And what are the signals so we get from this equation? Not only is the defence budget further reduced by 100 million. kr, which further reinforces the deviations from the current plan assumptions, but they have power over the piece of art to take the entire cut of the Air Force operating budget. If it was some place you shouldn't cut, it was at least there. For the sake of order, air defence is the sector of defence in which the operating situation is most critical. The regrouping proposal from the Ministry of Defence states that a net injection of 124 million has been required for the current year. kr to keep this defence sector more or less operational throughout this year. Of this amount, SEK 124 million. SEK is an additional 25 million. kr emergency aid to be able to keep at all a minimum of our F-16 planes on the wings. The situation in Defense is dramatic and serious. We are one of the richest countries in the world. While the Government wants to show that it has ambitions in general with great contributions to international peace operations and registration in all the world's military strength records, and we, in cooperation with Denmark, are leading the KFOR force in the Balkans, the same Government is negotiating out the opportunities to provide the same forces with a minimum of necessary training and practice. This is immoral. There is reason for serious concern about the effect of the schizophrenic signals that we are sending here to our allies about the will and ability to keep order in our own defence house, while at the same time we have more than ever to appear as a credible alliance partner. Unfortunately, the financial basis for the national and international activities of the Defence Agency adopted later today by the Stortinget provides no reason for optimism on behalf of Norway and the Defence Agency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e681	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e684	The budget we're going to vote on here tonight is a budget the Center Party has good reason to be satisfied with. I come from a part of the country where the government's budget proposal was met with strong protests. It is in stark contrast to the almost pan-Egyrian review of the Government's draft budget which has been expressed by several speakers of the Workers' Party in this debate. For example, the Prime Minister used: in its article, the term ‘timely bet on Norwegian municipalities’ and the amount of time spent on Norwegian care for the elderly, etc. He'd have to say that. But it stands in stark contrast to the perception his party traps have, among other things. in my state of Troms. For example, the Labour Party rapporteur in Balsfjord is: so doubtful about the financial situation in the municipality that he has gone out publicly and almost asked for the municipality to be placed under administration. So there are more people than the Center Party who have seen the need to strengthen the local economy. The municipalities can now rejoice that the next year will receive NOK 1.2 billion more than the Workers' Party government proposed in October. The centre party entered the budget negotiations with five main requirements: half of VAT on food, fair distribution among others. through taxes on dividends on shares, the strengthening of municipal income, more funds for investment in transport and increased investment in culture. We have had an impact on all these areas in the budget. Half of the VAT on food is good distribution policy because it is the families of children in the low income groups who make the most, about SEK 4 500 per person. years, on such conversion. Through an increase in transfers to the municipal sector of DKK 1.25 billion, the budgetary agreement contributes to the provision of municipal services such as kindergartens, school services and health and care services. The centre party had wanted a stronger bet on the municipalities through a debt cancellation scheme, which would improve the municipality's economy by NOK 2 billion in 2001. This would not be part of the Workers' Party. The centre party is pleased that workplaces are saved by the removal of the cyclical tax proposals of the Labour Party Government and the increased electricity tax for industry, and that it became a majority in order to eliminate VAT on travel life. Overall, this is a budget line that is good for the country and helps to dampen the pressure towards further interest rate increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e703	Left's leader, Lars Sponheim, earlier today characterized the centre party as the 'cross of power politics' in Norwegian politics. I have learned over many years, both in traffic and in politics, that crossings are not a place where one should stay over time. A crossroads is a place where you should select one direction and proceed. I feel that the direction that, among other things, The left has now taken, with the strong tax increase both for business and for the population that has been implemented in comparison with the Labour Party, is a wrong direction. But that's what left hand will answer for. On the other hand, I am concerned that many companies are also in a crossroads with the draft budget that has now been presented and, unfortunately, we are going to adopt a part of this evening. That crossroads is too many corporate owners a question of whether to continue to develop their business in Norway, or whether to move abroad. Some of us big-time representatives from several different parties have today received a letter from the trustee at Ekorene's factories. I drew this up as an example of the despair we have in business. The chief trustee is very sceptical about the budget deal, and especially about the cyclical charge of 10 p.m. which is applied to new buildings and the cost of construction by this agreement. The cyclone is within a particular positive period. There's a new bridge built there, which we had the joy of being part of inauguration under the leadership of the Minister of Culture just a month ago. This has created optimism, and Ekorenes is going through a big expansion because of a very good order entry. What they trust now fears is that this will have to stop, and that Ekorenes must do the same thing as other businesses on the other side of the fjord have already done, move out of the country because of construction and production costs. So far about the economic cost itself. But there is one more thing that I find to ask the Minister of Finance about, since he is present, possibly to others of the conciliators: In the agreement concluded between the Labour Party and the Centre, it says about the cyclical charge: ‘The levy shall not be imposed on barley contracted before 18.11.2000.’ Now we know that in a construction process there are many steps. There are agreements of intent here, and here are binding agreements. It is bad if the Stortinget accepts this fee tonight, but it is even worse if the Stortinget does not know what is in this with «contracted before 18.11.» I ask the Council of State insistently for a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e721	Representatives from the intermediate and government parties have spent these two days trying more or less to stigmatise the Right by making claims that what is presented in their alternative state budget has the character of being unsocial. Of those who have gone the farthest, is actually the prime minister of the country, and also the head of the Christian People's Party. The strange thing is that you use words that describe the Right Cut in the Health Pay Scheme, as a condition that makes the party almost inedible as a partner. The Prime Minister uses expressions like the Right behind cold numbers. He says that the Right suggests unsocial cut. This illustrates in many ways that one chooses to resign in relation to what is happening in the development of Norwegian sick pay. The state contribution next year to keep track of developments in the uncontrolled increase in sick leave will amount to DKK 25 billion. The same proportion must be paid by the private sector. The increase in cost from this year to next year will, on the state's own, amount to NOK 5 billion. Right takes the same position as the Christian People's Party has had, and now I choose to quote from the Christian People's Party's action programme: ‘The Christian People’s Party is in favour of adjusting the sick pay scheme by introducing 2 days of absence and reducing sick pay to 90 % of full pay.’ So that's what the right hand side allows us to suggest. But it's from the same actors called 'ussocial', and it's called 'cold numbers'. When we are talking about the concept of ‘cold numbers’, I would point out that there are representatives and leaders from these parties who are behind the largest hospital queue we've had in the country over the years. We have 290,000 people in a hospital queue. We have a huge queue within psychiatry, and the worst is actually the many cancer patients who have to wait for treatment, among other things. in the field of radiotherapy. Norwegian sick leave represents a level of 200000 yearly jobs this year. When the Right allows itself to propose to do something about the situation, and actually stands for a policy that is the same as the Christian People's Party, among others. It is presented in this forum as standing behind cold numbers and for a policy that is unapproachable. No more can it be turned to the head in this debate. I had hoped that this kind of stigmatisation would be exempted in the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e739	When, at the bottom of this important debate, I find reason to take a 3-minute post, it is in order to express the wish that cooperation between the Labour Party and the Centre should become more stable and, in the next round, more formalized. The most important reason why cooperation needs to be strengthened is the need to take some heavy hold to correct some of the horrendous distortions of Norwegian society. And I'm thinking in particular that we have a total of 70,000 children in this country who have to live below the poverty line. And I think of the prevention work to prevent young people from coming out on the slope, preventing recruitment to drug environments and reindeer stones. The best thing about this year's budget is the measures taken to improve the distribution policy. Finally, it seems that a broad majority realises that this is necessary. Finally, a united majority recognizes the need to take away the richest to help the poorest. But what's happening now just has to be a beginning. Since we cannot use oil money freely, there has to be a redistribution from private consumption to the community. But then a broad political majority must stand behind such a policy. I hope the parties of the time that is coming, may not be able to elaborate differences as compared to the major challenges, must be considered microscopic. When e.g. The representative, Mr Bondevik, makes the grant to the voluntary organisations essentially to show differences in attitudes, it becomes too small. It is enough to remember that his own government would not implement the new grant scheme before demonstrations on the Lion Hill and support from the entire opposition, including the Workers' Party, forced it to do so. Of course, the fact that there is real political disagreement on certain issues needs to be accepted and respected. Back to the 70 000 poor children. In his speech in Oslo Cathedral in connection with the opening of the Stortinget, Bishop Stålsett said that the children are waiting for the heart language of politics. That's very well said. Even in our wealth, it shouldn't be difficult to get into what it means for a child not to be able to participate with the others, not having as fine clothes as the others, not having the same things that others take as a matter of course, and perhaps not even having access to food in line with other kids. Such a situation is unworthy and inhumane. It is also not natural that it should be so. The multiple sizes can do something about it. That is the will that is at stake, first of all, the willingness to cooperate on what is most important. And the most important thing in the time that will be to combat the growing egoism that is emerging in Norwegian society. I noticed in particular that the representative Svarstad Haugland expressed that supporting the Right in a special area, which is just about solidarity, would be like losing the soul saying. That statement promises good cooperation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e756	I would like to say a few words about the proposal on peace tax – case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Gandhi said a few years ago: There is no way to peace – peace is the way. Since then there have been hundreds of wars, and millions of people are killed in war. And it's not just the soldier who dies, no, it's an increasing number of civilians who must suffer for the terror of war. We have seen that in Vietnam, in Cambodia, in the Horn of Africa, in Iraq, in Nagorno-Karabakh, in Chechnya, in the Balkans and now in the last of Palestine. Modern wars are mostly financed by the tax haven. For many people who are opponents of resolving conflicts with armed power, there is a moral little difference between four of the divisive weapons and paying others to do so. The right to freedom of thought and conscience stands high as human rights and is enshrined in, among other things, the right to freedom of thought and conscience. UN Declaration of Human Rights, Article 18. And Nuremberg judges confirm that individual conscience is over the order. Me and SV would like to have the opportunity to expand the principle of military service exemption, so that it is also possible to transfer taxes to peace-building work. But within these walls there is little hearing for such a suggestion, although many here in the house have been positive in conversations with others. Quakers. Outside this house, the uproar and understanding are different. Very many people want such an arrangement – from Rosemarie Køhn, Berge Furre and Odd Børresen to Jakob Jervell. A lot of prominent people in Norwegian society want this distribution. These people understand that a person's conscience and over-interpretation is a serious question, and they think that the Storting must issue an extension of military nectar laws. In 1999, 57 MPs – Members of Parliament – from Labour in England presented a similar proposal. So on Stortinget, there's only nine from SV. At the dawn of the new millennium, Prime Minister Bondevik said: ‘Norway must be a peace nation – an actor in conflict resolution and peace-making work’ – a nation that follows Nordahl Grieg’s strategy: ‘Create human dignity, create peace.’ Today, Bondevik and others in this house are not stifling the proposal that takes care of people’s serious over-estimation, and that will increase efforts for peace-building.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e773	There has been a long debate, and many of the speakers who have spoken have touched on the environment, climate and bad weather. When the Kyoto agreement was clubbed through three years ago, the agreement was honoured as a historic first step to curb so-called global man-made climate change. The problem with the Kyoto agreement is that there are many gaps and gaps in an agreement that is unfinished. It says how much each country will reduce its emissions by, but lacks legislation on how to do this. Before it is in place, countries cannot know how much it will cost them to meet their commitments, and before the price tag is ready, they will not ratify the agreement. I can see that very well, and of course I am very pleased, because the entire so-called climate problem is based on a very uncertain basis and has a price tag no one knows the size of. The endless discussions on the many loose threads of the Kyoto Agreement have greatly reduced national environmental protection efforts. Acid precipitation is the result of air pollution. It is therefore disappointing to witness that the Government also this time reduces the allocation to watercourse liming. It is important to limit air-polluted emissions by means of technology and to provide sufficient funds to reduce the adverse effects. Annually, 29000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide is emitted in Norway, where the process industry accounts for 2/3 of emissions. When the Stoltenberg government presented its government budget in October, it created great uncertainty and frustration for the process industry. A continuation of a high sulphur charge, an increase in the electricity charge and the introduction of a short-term cyclical charge caused considerable frustration in the industry. Fortunately, the protests from the industry led to the government and the central parties having to reverse much of the deterioration created by the presentation of the state budget. One of the steps taken was to bring the sulphur tax back to the level before the revised national budget in ours. Sulphur emissions are pollution. It wants the process industry to do something about it. The process industry wants the fee to enter an environmental fund, which is to finance clean-up measures. We believe that this is a good thing in the Progress Party, and we have therefore put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a fund, in which the sulphur tax from the process industry is levied. This fund shall be used for environmental improvement measures in the process industry.» In other words, there is a clean environmental tax that will trigger and finance clean-up measures, and then it becomes incomprehensible to me if any of the parties in this house who are in favour of a Kyoto agreement vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e791	After two long days' journey to night, most of it is said, most of it has also been said many times. Among other things, in this debate, we have listened to the rhetoric of the resolution comrades as regards the concern of the poor, in some versions it is called even the poorest of the poor. It is an affordable care, but it is not particularly credible when it comes from parties that want to protect the Norwegian market as effectively as possible against the poorest of the poor. Let me also point out that there is a somewhat amazing form of priority that has been agreed upon when, in the future, you will be binding up NOK 6 billion a year in halves of food tax. It is possible that there is good industrial policy in relation to the industry that is already the most protected and subsidized in Norway. But it is certainly not a good nutrition policy, and as health policy considered, it is as far behind as possible. That's why I'm a little worried that the Minister of Health, who was inside the room, has left the hall again, because I was going to challenge him to give a never so small assessment of the situation that in Norway today we have one of the biggest health problems in increasing obesity in virtually all age classes of the population. In this situation, it is considered appropriate to carry out a VAT reform which makes it cheaper to eat — including for those who are trying to eat in their heels — and more expensive to train. As a health policy measure, it is quite curious. What worries me the most is that you probably introduce this without there being any real majority in this room who have any faith that this is a sensible measure. The working party has not had it as its primary position. The left has not had it as a primary position, and as far as I have understood, nor has the Christian People's Party. In reality, there is one party that believes in this, but they have a coal fiery belief in it, and it is the Center Party – yes, and as far as possible the Advance Party. It's also a little bit of a special alliance. Then it's a little funny that because of the strange settlements it becomes the majority to implement this reform, and it's probably sadly of the reforms that it's impossible to do anything about once it's implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e800	Not only seafarers, who cannot fly out, and their shipping companies are affected by worsening competition conditions. With significant loss of seafarers' jobs and a likely flagging-out, the main components of the maritime cluster will be lost and employment will continue to be around. 70000 workers. Several speakers from both the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties have highlighted during this debate that the budgetary conciliation is a contribution to job security. This is probably true in the case of public jobs, but very many jobs in the private sector balance a thin line between red and black accounts, and this is reinforced by this budget. Is it the case that the Centre and the Workers' Party will in this way release labour for public sector use? Then I have to remind myself that labour is a living person with different abilities, facilities and interests, and with very different assumptions for professional choice. And the basic thing for the good life, yeah, that's the ability to work with something you have plant and interest in. When the professional perspective narrows, more and more falls outside. Is this a development that this government wants? On 24 March 1999, former State Council Restad raised a concern from the Workers' Party about the availability of the yard industry. It was answered that in isolation this was not so negative, as there was a great lack of free hands in the care professions. The follow-up question was whether the Council of State would ensure that sufficient funds were put in place for re-training in the framework of the revision of the budget. Is that still the way you think in the Labour Party and the cooperating parties? Are seafarers and the 75 000 others currently working with maritime industries, together with all the others in competitive industries that are now facing significant problems, to be put on the school bench to become nurses and caregivers? Is there any willingness among these co-operation parties to provide a viable framework for competitive industries, and rather to ensure that the shortage of labour in other sectors meets with access to free recruitment of skilled foreign workers? Will the Government follow up the challenge that has come from the Right? Will the Government and the Cooperation Parties ensure that competitive business continues to be life-creating in Norway, or is it only when national ownership is state-owned, that it is interesting, because the Government has said in the budget proposition that we need long-term Norwegian ownership? We also need long-term private Norwegian ownership. Will the Government and the Cooperation Parties follow up on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e812	On page 164 of the currently printed setting, there has been an error in SV's proposal No. 16 in the case of appropriations in framework areas. These are correctly stated in the mention of the different frame areas in the setting, but in the collection proposal on page 164 this has been incorrect, so I am asking for this to be corrected. Sir. Wages and salaries had a pretty interesting post about food tax, where he takes into account the health policy reasons why this is not wise. He could probably say that he feels like a business rationale, and that's probably true. What is most interesting, however, is that the reasons given are neither health policy nor nutrition policy; they are justified on the grounds of the families of young children. It is, like the big crown argument, that it is the families of young children who want this. But has anyone asked the families of young children? If they got $6.5 billion, what would they want to spend these $6.5 billion for? So for the full-year effect of half of the food tax, $6.5 billion. That's twice the cash support, to use an illustration. I am absolutely convinced that if someone had asked to be a child's parents, for example. myself, about what I would have liked if I had the opportunity to spend $6.5 billion for the benefit of young children's parents, I wouldn't have gotten on low mats. I would have come to half the nursery rate, I might have come up with increased child welfare, I could imagine that my children had a meal at school, I could imagine that we had safe schooling, and I could imagine that we had better schools. I could imagine a lot of things that I'm absolutely convinced that all young children's parents, regardless of their political colour, would seem to be very good and targeted measures for young children's parents. But I don't think anyone would have thought that low matmoms necessarily was a brilliant suggestion to young children's parents. So it is also said that this is a gain that will benefit the consumer. After repeated challenges to the representative of Enoxsen, he says that this is easy to control, because it's just to see in the store that prices are getting lower. I would like to challenge the representative of Enoxsen when he goes to RIMI on a Friday afternoon with the calculator and finds out that right now the prices are going down 7.5 p.m., which is what the Ministry of Finance has calculated that the fee will lead to a reduction in the price. I would like to see those babies' parents who can actually convert a price of NOK 137.65 into a minus the reduced food tax. What is the reality of this as in all other things, is that many will eat off the load before the consumer himself. This has happened in Sweden, and it has happened in Germany, where it has been calculated afterwards. The farmer will take a little extra, the store will take a little extra, the ones who deliver the goods will take a little extra, and the consumer will of course get a small gain, but he is not at all near the gain that he was actually intended to. That's what's the actual reason for the center party. That means that the Central Party has now become RIMI-Hagen's best friend, or Reitan's best friend, because it is those who will have the greatest benefit from this proposal. And then, of course, the farmer will get a little bit, and that was probably the reason why the Center Party initially wanted this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e825	There is something surrealistic about the budget agreement that is on the table today between the centre and the Workers' Party. While we have now had considerable predictability in our tax system for several years in Norway, the 1992 tax compromise – with the agreement now on the table – has been eroded. There is no longer any certainty that what Stortinget has put forward as a precursor should be continued. And for those who want to invest, it's very negative. Some of the key elements of the 1992 tax compromise were also the prerequisite for a broad political basis. Among other things, no one would pay more than 50 pst. taxes on their income. Now the center and the Workers' Party arranged it so last year that you have a marginal tax of 55.3 pst. It was also the case that those who put the money in the bank should have no lower tax than those who invested in business and jobs. Now those who invest in IT companies, in important companies in District Norway, have received the clear message that they should have 28 pst. plus 11 pst. on the tax. We have previously rejected a graduation of VAT, and not least the Workers' Party has been a guarantor of a VAT system where there should be no loopholes, nor should there be uncertainty and a large bureaucracy. Now we've got a graduation of the VAT rate. We started with food, but why do you have to do it, for example? pay half VAT on potato gold and full VAT on children's clothing? This will help us in the future to have a big debate on what the full VAT rate should be on, and what half the VAT rate should be on. And not least for the sake of control, this should have been rejected. It was also the Labour Party's own tax-policy figure inside the Storting yesterday. What has happened is that in six months the Workers' Party has changed its fiscal policy stance. In the spring they wrote in their revised national budget that the possibilities to increase tax revenue are limited in the coming years. Then they beat six months later with the increase in taxes of time. It also stated that the level of taxation in Norway is already high, compared to other countries. But throughout the fall, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have run around the country trying to present it as if we in Norway have a very low tax level. So it's happened in six months. And the reason why the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister had to do this was to defend changes in the tax system that they opposed six months ago. It's, as I said, somewhat surreal about this, and we're going to pay a price for now going a different way from the rest of Europe in terms of the development of the tax system. This means fewer jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e838	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 2-8. [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e851	The vote will take place at the next voting time on the items on agenda No. 21, which has been treated in the last two days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e870	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance's statement on the 2001 government and national budget be annexed to the minutes of the Grand Duchy meeting on 4 October 2000. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e877	Case No. 3 applies to budget revenue. S. I for 2000-2001. Case No. A total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 5-9, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 10-12, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 13-15, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and Steinar Bastesen proposals No. 16-19, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left-wing Party proposal No. 20, from Steinar Bastesen In the vote that follows, the President will start with the proposals from the smallest fraction and move forward after increasing size. There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2001, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 2000 and supplemented on 14 November 2000. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration10 215 725 0002Family and consumer31 724 980 0003Culture1 993 857 0004Exchange12 629 308 0005Justis9 578 221 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour9 381 291 0007Day money etc.12 753 000 000 0008Defence27 148 681 0009Industry3 527 916 00010Fiskerry593 95000011Agriculture13 518 701 00012Oil and energy-86 931 800 00013Environment2 346 902 00014Storing etc.809 290 00015Social and health33 898 921 00016Folkering, social and health resources161 093 900 00017Education and research28 411 247 00018Communal transport sector
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e1102	There is a vote on proposal No. 19, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sale of spirits and wineGreatness asks the Government to initiate tests at established public service offices to open up for limited sales of spirits and wine.’ Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e1124	Proposals Nos. 16-18, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2001, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 2000 and supplemented on 14 November 2000. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration10 230 270 0002Family and consumer30 604 810 0003Culture2 206 250 0004Foreign policy15 472 975 0005Justice9 335 221 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour10 191 791 0007Day money, etc.12 753 000 000 0008Defence24 087 681 0009Industry3 146 916 00010Fiskerry541 300 00011Agriculture13 823 701 00012Oil and energy-87 019 500 00013Environment2 420 882 00014Distribution, etc.809 290 00015Social and health30 767 421 00016Folk funds, social and health160 948 900 00017Education and research29 695 747 00018Company15 847 174 00019Facilities of payment to the local sector57 474 000 00020Supplementary expenditure and receipts16 187 0002 383 millionFappropriations3 3 396 million The representative, Mr Djupedal, pointed out that there were some errors in this proposal. The President will indicate that the figures found in the review in the setting of the respective framework areas are correct. Proposal No. 17 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e1344	The proposals are then put to the vote. 13-15, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 13 sounds: "The eligibility framework and the net lending growth framework of the State banks and the net lending growth framework are aligned with those members' remarks in the budget revenue statement. S. I [[2000-2001]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: "Study loan rateThe government asks the government to ensure that the interest rate in the State Treasury is set at 6.5 pst. from the end of the year.’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Study-backed interest rateThe Government asks the Government to reintroduce interest-backed interest into the State Loan Fund for Education.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e1381	Proposals Nos. 10-12, from the right, is taken up for voting. Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2001, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 2000 and supplemented on 14 November 2000. Framework No. Rammesum1State administration9 857 069 0002Family and consumer31 969 952 0003Culture1 547 291 0004Exchange12 321 724 0005Justice9 361 721 0006Inmigration, regional development, housing and labour7 687 542 0007Day money etc.12 753 000 000 0008Defence27 698 681 0009Industry2 658 116 00010Fiskerry466 300 00011Agriculture11 926 582 00012Oil and energy 87 081 000 000 00013Environment2 224 302 00014Distribution etc.809 290 00015Society and health33 467 921 00016Folk costs, social and health154 101 900 00017Education and research4 092 747 00018Company16 510 77 00019Rame grants to the local sector51 297 00020Fair expenditure and revenues3 967 92 00016 96 00016 00016166 000166 0001661661661661621661616616616616616616616616616616616616616616616616616616616696 00016Fallion and health, social and health, social and social and social expenditure, social expenditure, social resources, social and social expenditure, social expenditure, social and social expenditure, social expenditure, social expenditure, social expenditure, social and health and social expenditure, social expenditure, social and health156 Proposal No. 11 sounds: "Reform of Social Security Biggest asks the Government to put forward proposals for reform of Social Security, so that parts of the social security and employers' contributions are converted into contributions into private pension funds. The pension benefits from these funds shall replace the supplementary pensions from the Social Security Fund.’;» Proposal No. 12 sounds: "The eligibility framework and the framework for net lending growthThe eligibility framework and the framework for net lending growth for 2001 are set out in line with the observations of the Right in the preliminary budget. S. [[2000-2001]] I
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e1601	The proposals are then put to the vote. 5-9, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘For the treatment of the State budget by the Grand Duchy, including the public interest for 2001, the following framework for appropriations is laid down in accordance with the breakdown into framework areas adopted by the Grand Duchy on 19 October 2000 and supplemented on 14 November 2000. Frame number1State administration9 823 402 0005Justice9 572 525 0006Immigration, regional development, housing and labour6 262 422 0007Day money1 094 780 000 0008Defence28 250 681 0009Industry2 400 216 00010Fischerry330 300 00011Agriculture9 217 701 00012Oil and energy-87 325 000 00013Environment2 041 953 00014Distribution to 809 290 00015Society and health34 636 281 00016Folkering, social and health158 428 500 00017Education and research27 042 503 00018Education and research17 693 374 00019Rame grants to the local sector49 158 652 00020Fairports and incomes36 281 00016Folkering, social and health158 428 500 00017Education and research27 503 00018Compression17 693 372 000152 000 Proposal No. 6 sounds: "Norges BankStortinget asks the Government to make the necessary regulatory changes so that Norway's Bank will manage its monetary policy in line with an inflation target, as well as to promote the legislative amendments to the Central Bank Act necessary to ensure Norwegian Bank's operational independence from the Ministry of Finance." Proposal No. 7 sounds: "The eligibility framework and the framework for net lending growthThe eligibility framework and the framework for net lending growth for 2001 are set in line with the comments of the Progress Party in the Budget. S. [[2000-2001]] I Proposal No. 8 sounds: The government is asking for proposals to be made for the reform of Posten BA, the production departments of the State Wevessen, the Railway Agency and the NSA BA to share company.c.The government is asking for a regulatory report on existing regulatory regulations, so that the cost of regulation can be measured against the objective as well as an assessment of the introduction of public payments to enterprises for work with the statistical value only for the public.d.The government is asking the Government to promote the necessary proposals to make the compensation scheme for value added tax to municipalities and to devote resources to regularity.The Authority is asking the Government to bring up competition on the rail network and to bid for the purchase of passenger transport services.f.The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals for the liberalisation of the raw materials law and the law. Proposal No. Nine sounds. \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Foreign budget.In the decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 19 October 2000 on the allocation of the State budget to the committees, the following amendment/additions are made to the Financial Committee: [[Transfered from the Petroleum Fund]] Expenditure Exceptional purchase of hospital equipment 1 000 000 000 Purchase of rescue and police helicopters 1 000 000 000 Research equipment 700000 000Political cars, etc. equipment 300 000 000 000ICT equipment for the education sector 1 000 000 000 Defence equipment 2 000 000 000Support for the repatriation of refugees 500 000 000Holidays and nursing homes 1 000 000 000Holidays 1 500 000 000Holidays 300000 000Holiday equipment 300 000 000 000Turistle lambs abroad 200 000 000 000Studying places abroad 500 000 000 000Treatment trips 300 000 000United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees 100 000 000Marketing sales and whaling 50 000 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2011	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Norges Bank’s administration of the State Petroleum FundThe Norwegian Government asks the Government of the Revised National Budget for 2001 to assess whether the Norwegian Bank’s management of the State Petroleum Fund should take place through its own active share management, or whether the management should continue to be based on outsourcing.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing Fund The Board agrees that Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Swedish Social Security Fund is amended to the following Board of Directors is responsible for placing the funds of the Fund for the best possible return, taking into account the security and liquidity requirements. [[(change in italics):]] The Management Board shall ensure that a safe risk management system is in place for the management of the Fund. The funds of the Fund may be placed in Norwegian bearer bonds and certificates, such as bank accounts and deposits in commercial and savings banks. Within a frame of 20 pst. the management capital of the fund may be placed in shares listed on the Norwegian stock exchange or on stock exchanges in Denmark, Finland or Sweden and, following the approval of the Ministry of Finance, shares in Norwegian companies, otherwise where the shares are subject to regular and organised trading, listed certificates of basic funds in Norwegian savings banks, credit associations and mutual insurance companies, and listed convertible bonds and quoted debt securities with warrants for shares in Norwegian companies. The total placement in shares listed on the stock exchange in Denmark, Finland or Sweden shall not exceed 20 pst. of the Public Resources Fund’s framework for share placements. The fund may participate in issues in unlisted shares of Norwegian companies immediately prior to the stock exchange introduction, if it is clarified at the time of the issue that the shares in question will be listed shortly after the issue. The second paragraph shall not prevent the Folketrück Foundation from retaining shares in Norwegian companies which, in connection with the purchase, merger or other. changes the status of a foreign company. The Fund may also, within the overall framework of 20 pst. of the fund's capital, enter equity deposits in the form of unlisted papers, in the event that the fund is at risk of suffering significant losses on the placements in debt securities. In that case, this must be part of a coordinated action, involving a dominant group of creditors and where the sole objective of the fund is to safeguard the fund's own interests. The Social Security Fund may hold shares for up to 15 pst. of total share capital or unit trust capital of a single company in Norway. The Social Security Fund may hold shares for up to 15 pst. of the total capital of a single company in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. The Board of Directors may issue short-term loans if appropriate. The public funds may, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the Ministry of Finance, conclude sale and repurchase agreements relating to equity instruments and interest-bearing instruments in which the transferee of the instruments under the agreement is obliged to return them to the seller.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: "Restrictions to the AFP schemeThe Government asks the Government to submit proposals for mitigations to the AFP scheme." Proposal No. 4 sounds: "Competition measuresThe Government asks the Government to make proposals to: amend the review mechanism under the Competition Act by setting up an independent review body and give the Competition Authority the opportunity to intervene against public anti-competitive activities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2083	You're going to have to vote over the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2285	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2355	Here the President will first vote on II, then on III. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against both Roman numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2391	Case No. 4 applies to budget revenue. S. No 1 for 2000–2001. Here the President will deal with the peculiarity of the Budgetary Department. S. No 1 distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. A total of 93 proposals have been put forward on this subject. It's proposal No 76, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. the proposals No 77-85, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and representative Steinar Bastesen. proposal No 86, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. the proposals No 1, 5, 9-34, 72, 87 and 88, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party. the proposals No 2, 6, 35-46 and 73, from Per-Christian Foss on behalf of the Right. the proposals No 3, 7, 47-58, 74 and 89-93, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. the proposals No 4, 8, 59-71 and 75 from the representative Steinar Bastesen. With regard to the forthcoming vote, the President would refer to paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which states that once a decision has been taken on the financial envelope for the 24 framework areas into which the budget has been divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the course of further consideration of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposals put forward will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse because they are based on amounts other than those adopted. This concerns the proposals Nos. 1-75 in the present setting. Proposals Nos. 76-93 is independent of the frame, so these will be over. The President first takes into account the framework-independent proposals. Proposals Nos. 89-93, from the Socialist Left Party, is addressed to voting. Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘A public body shall be set up to review the investment levy with a view to a non-profit-making conversion in which the levy base is extended and the rate reduced.’;» Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a ban on the sale of automotive diesel with a sulphur content exceeding 50 ppm and to make so-called environmental diesel the current standard for vehicles applicable from 1 January 2003.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals in the revised 2001 national budget for the reduction of the document fee for first-time purchasers, combined with measures to limit the fees of real estate agents.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote a proposal with the necessary legislative proposals to abolish the special company tax scheme as early as possible.’ Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government of the Revised National Budget in 2001 to present its comments and to make proposals for further follow-up to the recommendations of the Green Tax Commission.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2455	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 87 and 88, from the Progress Party. The President has understood that the Right wants to vote in favour of proposal No. 87, and will therefore split the voting. Proposal No. 87 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of a fund, in which the sulphur tax from the process industry is levied. This fund shall be used for environmental improvement measures in the process industry.» Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the State Budget for 2002 to submit a liquidation plan for the document fee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2484	Proposal No. 86, from the Party of Advancement and the representative Steinar Bastesen, to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government in connection with RNB 2001, to propose the introduction of a scheme whereby petrol used as a fuel for boat engines is exempted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2498	Proposals Nos. 77-85, from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen are being taken up for voting. Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Revised National Budget for 2001 that the annual fee be paid only for the part of the year in which the vehicle is registered.’ Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the weighted annual fee, including the environmentally differentiated annual fee, be fully harmonised with the EU’s minimum rates, as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2002 State budget.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the Revised National Budget to submit a phasing-out plan for Charges on boat engines.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The budget calls on the Government to promote a plan to liquidate the levy on chocolate and sugar products by 2002 at the latest.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a exit plan for the product charge for aerated, non-alcoholic beverages at the latest in the State budget for 2002.’» Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a exit plan for the product charge for aerated, non-alcoholic beverages as soon as possible and at the latest in the State budget for 2002.’ Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit a plan for the liquidation of the basic charge on disposable packaging for beverages as soon as possible and at the latest in the 2002 State budget.’ Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The decision requests the Government to propose a resolution plan for the passenger charge in the context of the Revised National Budget.’ Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a degressive plan for the tax on wealth for liquidation over 2 to 4 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2555	There is a vote on proposal No. 76, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a.The security mechanism of the GSP mechanism is removed.b.The Government asks the Government to support the EU’s WTO proposal to remove tariff and quota restrictions for all products except weapons from the MUL countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2575	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 19. In this area, there are minority proposals from the Progress Party, from the Right, from the Socialist Left Party and from the representative of Steinar Bastesen, the proposals No. One, two, three, four. As the President has previously stated, these proposals are in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2737	The President assumes that the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2748	There are also proposals for Framework Section 20 by the Progress Party, from the Right, from the Socialist Left Party and from the representative of Steinar Bastesen. That is the proposal No. 5, 6, 7 and 8, which now cancels out. Frame area 20 and associated II and III are taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2892	Here too, the President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e2904	We are going on to Framework Area 23, including the II and underlying tax, tax and customs decisions. There are also proposals for this framework, from the Right, from the Socialist Left and from the representative of Steinar Bastesen. That is the proposal No. 9–34, 35–46, 47–58, and 59–70, which goes away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8416	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8428	We have now reached the 24th Framework Area. There are also proposals for this framework, from the Right, from the Socialist Left and from the representative of Steinar Bastesen. That is the proposal No. 72, 73, 74 and 75, which are now dropping out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8864	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8902	The proposal for a decision outside the framework areas remains to be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8930	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8957	During the debate, Mr Djupedal put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:85 [[1999 - 2000]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e8979	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen, on proposal No. 2, from Per Erik Monsen on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to harmonise the import quotas in the provisions on the freedom of customs duty on travel equipment and luggage, such as alcohol and tobacco, with EU rules.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-28-2.ana.ud986e9002	Proposal No. 1, from the Right and the representative Steinar Bastisen, says: ‘Document No. 8:10 [[2000-2001]] This proposal will be replaced by the setting of the Committee.
