ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e33	Four permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the sick leave of the representative Anne Helen Rui from 10 February onwards and until further notice from the representative Kenneth Svendsen on leave from 15 February until 17 February to attend a conference at Wilton Park in Steyning in England from the representatives of Marit Nybakk and Elsa Scarbøvik on leave from 15 February until 17 February to take part in the UNCTAD conference in Bangkok These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the Vestfold County, Karin Lian, is currently abroad and is therefore unable to meet under Anne Helen Ruis leave. From the first alternate of Oslo, Anders Hornslien, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the authority of the representative Marit Nybakk, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the Nordic counties: Hanne Dyveke Sweets HagenFor Oslo: Shahbaz TariqFor the Westfold counties: Trond Mathisen and Harald Solberg.3. Trond Mathisen and Harald Solberg are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for representatives Anne Helen Rui and Elsa Skarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e100	Trond Mathisen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e112	Position of the Municipal Committee on Entrepreneurship 1998, Innst. S. No 27, cf. St.meld. No 48 for 1998-99, was released on 18 November 1999. This is an old message to process. However, both the notification and the decision of the Municipal Committee shall, of course, be in Sami language. The right to language is fundamental and essential for all peoples, including the Sami people. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to take the opportunity initially to commend the Sameting for its communication on its activities in 1998. The Annual Communication addresses the main areas: future policy-making the policy work of the 1998 Sameting, the technical and administrative tasks of the Sameting in 1998 economic and administrative challenges The document is suitable for the dialogue that the Sametinget has previously called for between government and accumulation on one side and the Sameting on the other. Many of the issues raised by the Sameting are being followed up by the Government, even though some time has passed before this matter has come up for debate. The importance of co-policy issues for the Government is highlighted, among others. by Prime Minister Bondevik's New Year speech. It showed that the Government will propose the creation of its own fund as a collective compensation for the damage caused to the Sámi people by the policy of research. The Committee has taken the notification for information and urges the Stortinget to decide that it is annexed to the Protocol. Last weekend, the celebration unites all over Norway and cohabits in the countries of the North Calotte their national day. The date of February 6th was chosen because this was the opening day of the first Sami national meeting, which was held at Trondheim in 1917. The tradition of celebrating this day, however, is new. The first marker took place in 1993. The background to their wanting to have their own national day is that they perceive one people even if they live in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. There are still many tensions between the Sami people and the big community. Over the years, the right to use their own language has also been one of the main issues of conflict. In South Troms, where I live, and North Nordland, which has many Sami communities, you feel the threat to the language as strong. This has also been the subject of the Committee itself. during visits to the municipality of Skånland. Last week, therefore, a meeting was held in the Ministry of Church and Education between the Council of State Jon Lilletun and the association representatives of the two constituencies. Asbjørg Skåden from Skånland, Per Solli from Bjerkvik and Arvid Skjelhaug from Sørreisa aimed to present what they characterise as the precarious situation of Sami language and culture in the area. My local, Harstad Journal, wrote on Monday of this week, February 7th, in the lead place: ‘The meeting of the Council of State resulted in an agreement on a conference in the region on the linguistic and cultural issues in question. It can be considered as a small saying that it is appropriate to collect in the days around the marking of the national day of the group.’» I want to add that this is another signal from the Government to take our obligations towards our own indigenous people seriously. The majority of the Committee sees it as important to strengthen the Sameness as the main player in the development of the Sami society. In this context, there is a positive development and deliberate policy that the Sametinget has been delegated several tasks in recent years. This, however, also requires the dialogue and cooperation that must be between the Ministries and the Sameting. The majority also emphasise the importance of developing a coherent common policy. In this context, enhanced coordination between departments and good cooperation between departments and the Sametinget are important. The annual report and the survey report deal with a number of specific issues, such as: the continuation of the Samerettscommittee, Roofingvilt management, reindeer management, transfer of the Secretariat of the Sami Education Council to the Sameting, Sami kindergartens and languages. The majority of the Committee endorses the Ministry's assessment in these cases. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e167	The annual report of the merger is a good and thorough document that provides good information on the work of the merger. The Annual Report provides the Government with the basis for further work on the issues addressed by the Sameting. The government has commented on the annual report in the big news, giving Sameting a feedback, while the Stortinge gets a complete review of the issues dealt with by the Sametinge. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget – in particular – on the basic principles and main objectives of Norwegian common policies. It is well known that the Progress Party has a different view of this. In my view and in the eyes of the Government, it is important for Norway that there is a broad consensus on the state's policy towards our indigenous people, because Norway in international forums is often considered to be a leading country in this area. Language is central to the preservation and development of Sami culture. Both the notification and the vote of the Municipal Committee are available in Sami and Norwegian. This shows that Sami languages are similar in this context to Norwegian. However, the work on strengthening Sami languages still needs to be an important area of activity, especially because we are living at a time when technological development can lead to the need for additional help from small languages to benefit from the new technical means. The Government will do its utmost to facilitate the use of Sami languages also through the use of new information and communication technologies. In the coming years, the Government will put extra emphasis on the development of Sami languages, information and education. This will be emphasised in the work on the policy communication on the country's common policies, to be submitted up to next year. In this context, I clearly see a need to evaluate the language rules of the law to see if the effect of the law has been as intended. The Prime Minister announced in his New Year speech that the Government will make proposals to the Grand Duchy to set up a fund for the Sami population. Many co-workers were burdened by the state's research policy. I would like to stress that, through the creation of this fund, it is not an objective to provide individual compensation to individuals. The Government wants the Fund to contribute to the strengthening of Sami languages, culture and education. In the case of individual claims, such cases must continue to be investigated under the general legal framework, or under the Grand Duchy's special scheme of cheapness compensation. There has been a continuous development of the Sameting Authority since the establishment of the Sameting in 1989. This development will continue. The merger, with the consent of the Storting since the 1999 financial year, has had the power to prioritise and allocate the budget made available by the Stortinget to the Sametinget. Similarly, in accordance with the Training Act, which entered into force on 1 August 1999, it has been empowered to lay down rules on the symbiological symbiology and symbiology symbiology symbiology. The further development of the public-law role of the Sameting and the Sami self-determination in matters relating in particular to the Sami population will be addressed to a more fundamental discussion in the Communication of Principles. The merger will take over the management of the special grant to Sami kindergartens from 2001. It is a positive signal from the Committee that the size of the grant scheme should be discussed in this context. I would also like to inform you that the Ministry wants to identify the real needs for Sámi pre-school provision on a national basis in connection with the fact that the Sameting will delegate the management of the grant to Sámi kindergartens. Active cohesion policy must also be seen in a regional policy context. It is an important national and district policy task to ensure that all households, businesses and public enterprises can benefit from modern technologies and services. This will be a key instrument for ensuring a varied business life in the districts. I would like to stress that this also applies most to Sami areas. Sami towns with stable business and stable housing are very important for the preservation and development of the Sami culture and the Sami language. The Nordic Ministers for Cooperation have previously decided to establish informal ministerial cooperation on Sami issues. Finally, I would like to inform you that the first meeting of the Nordic joint ministers will be held in April. The government considers this to be a milestone in Nordic cooperation on common policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e193	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e196	I have a question for the municipal minister about views on quite radically transferring more power to the Sameting, such as: Mr. Birger Nymo is in favour of the evening post on Monday, February 7th, if he sees any concerns in the development of this, because there are some people who want to go very far. It has also been mentioned by some in the Sameting that the rights and ownership of any oil and gas outside Finnmark are intended to belong to the Sami population. I would like to hear what the Council of State thinks about that particular point. Something else, which is even more dramatic, as Mr. Birger Nymo says in the Evening Post, is: “We are now looking for a suitable room where we can gather all the Sami organisations in the capital, and where the Sameting will also establish a separate embassy in Oslo.” As I see it, the word ‘ambassade’ is a representative of another country, an independent country’s representation in another country. When you start talking about getting an embassy in Oslo in the Sametinget, at least a representative, do the alarm clocks call the Council of State? And will he be so kind as to state that it will not be necessary to make funds available for any premises that will house an embassy for the Sameting in the country's capital?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e208	The government's policy is still gradually transferring power to the Sameting in those areas where it is natural to do so. It is also the government's policy to maximise the influence of the Sameting from 1999 on its own budgets, i.e. through framework budgeting, where the Sameting itself makes available the budget as it deems appropriate. I'm aware that Sametinget is working on setting up an office in Oslo to have contact with Sami environments here and with public authorities. Of course, this is not an embassy, and it is not appropriate to set up a Sami embassy in Oslo. But the fact that the whole thing is working on establishing an office is a completely different matter, and I see that it is within the competence of the whole thing to see if there is an appropriate way to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e213	I am pleased that the Council of State is taking a step away from this idea of establishing an embassy in Oslo, but I think it is a little remarkable when the Council of State cannot see this gradual connection here, that there is a separate office for the Sametinge in Oslo. Having a local office for organisations completely outside the public authorities, the voluntary organisations are provided with as much as they like, but if there is to be an official agency for the Sameting in order to have contact with the Norwegian authorities, then it starts to approach quite a bit of an official representation. I thought it was the Norwegian state that was possibly represented in Finnmark, where the Sametinge building is located, and that contact with the Norwegian authorities takes place through the county or other local representative. It's gradually moving exactly in the direction that we've warned about, if you're going to have a kind of representative office in Oslo, à la PLO, for example, as much as Taiwan has, to have some kind of official contact between the Sameting and maybe the Storting, which some in the Sameting may eventually consider equivalent. Does the Council really not see that there is one step at a time in a direction that it becomes difficult for the Government and government parties to say no to, to say stop when they finally, after probably many years, realize that they have gone out on a completely wrong path?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e218	The comparisons that are being made here will be borne by Mr Hagen's own representative. The whole thing is together's own parliament. Whether they're teaming up, just like they have offices in, for example, Tysfjord, and is represented in Tysfjord through some of his services, also wants to have an office in Oslo both to do a large part of the work done against the large proportion of the Sami population living in Oslo, and to maintain the close contact that exists between Sametinget and the Norwegian authorities, I seem to become a group myself. There is almost weekly contact with the Ministry at different levels in relation to the activities of the Sameting, and there is a need for close contact between the authorities and the Sameting. It is still, in my opinion, the whole thing itself that assesses how one most appropriately organizes this work. But there's one thing we'll have plenty of time to get back to. This is something that Sameting is working on, and if such an office is established in Oslo, it is likely to be during 2001 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e223	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e226	As regards the official Norwegian common policy, the Progress Party has a somewhat different view of this than the rest of the parties in the Norwegian Grand Prix. First of all, the Progress Party has long been calling for the abolition of the Sameting as a parliamentary body. The main reason for this view is that we believe that it is unfortunate within the borders of a nation state to have a separate and extra parliamentary body which is therefore mainly to work to promote the demands for increased rights for a particular people's group. The 1998 resolution on the merger activity states that the party is, in principle, dissociating from the special treatment of ethnic groups, as we consider this to be contrary to the fundamental equality ideals on which the Norwegian community is built. The Progress Party believes that many of the conflict lines in Finnmark today between parts of the Sami and Norwegian-based population stem from demands from extreme Sami spokesmen for increased self-determination and demands for separate Sami rights to land and water in Finnmark. I do not believe that ethnicity in itself should in any way be a decisive criterion for the granting of specific rights in Norway. I will also express concern that the Government and the Storting seem to continue to give the Sameting increased power and influence in several areas of Finnmark. This, as the Progress Party sees it, could help to increase the conflicts in the difficult process of clarifying the right to land and water in our northernmost state. Rather, it should be aimed at creating a good balance between Sámi interests and other interests in Finnland, so that for the future all citizens will have the same rights to use land and water in this county as it is today. Anything but such a procedure for the future I think would be unfortunate and conflict-making, and contribute to increasing the regrettable tensions that we are witnessing today in parts of Finnmark. The Progress Party therefore attaches great importance to pursuing a policy for Finnland that can provide the basis for a peaceful and good co-existence between all those living in this large and fascinating state. However, if this work is to be successful, a principle must be demonstrated, both from the central authorities and from the population in the county, in order to ensure that all citizens are treated as equally as possible with regard to rights of use of land and water in Finnland. Such a starting point is, in my view, the best and only dangerous way to go to make a positive development in our northernmost state and for all those who live there, and of course also for the Sami population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e242	For SV, it has been very important that we have focused on developing policy bodies to be able to interact with each other, to develop dialogue and to solve tasks in a unified way. The merger is such a political body, and SV has strongly advocated an increase in the interaction between the Government and the Federation, as well as an increase in the interaction between the Storing and the Sameting. We should simply talk more to each other, become more familiar. That's one of the safest ways to dampen conflicts. It would have been easy to hang on to a debate that the Progress Party here has now wanted to run, where you draw up enemy images and horrors and think that it is a good way to develop society. I think that's the most devastating thing we can do. The political way of resolving conflicts and problems needs to be strengthened. It is a majority and a minority that must be raised. Finding policy solutions is even more important in societies where there are different populations, with indigenous peoples and minorities. Then it's dialogue that solves and doesn't split. It is therefore necessary to strengthen democratic decision-making. The strong commitment to culture that the Sameting has chosen to focus on for years is also important. Feeling safe and proud of one's own is the basis for meeting others with personal security and equivalency. The rich cultural heritage and the new cultural impressions of the Sami population are a great enrichment for everyone. In a modern and mobile and changeable world, we see that the personal identity building becomes more important and important as a basis for other life unfolding. Strengthening Sami culture can therefore only benefit everyone. So I'll say a little bit about the situation in the reindeer, because it's serious. It also says a lot about the message. As other primary industries, not only economic challenges are greater than before for this industry now. The ecological challenges are the strongest. The ecological boundaries are also not negotiable. We cannot negotiate to a compromise with nature's limit of tolerance. It cannot be exceeded without major and often irreparable damage. For the Sami population, which is so closely linked to the reindeer as the starting point for culture and identity, this is usually a bigger problem than for other industries. There is no reason to believe that the profitability of the reindeer industry can increase particularly greatly through contractual means. Therefore, there has to be changes in reindeer management. The number of pure must be down. It is very gratifying that there is now agreement on binding ways of doing this. As also stated in the message: If no agreement is reached, holdings may be subject to slaughter. It's necessary, and it's very dramatic. Even more dramatic is it of course if the basis of the reindeer is destroyed for everyone. In such a situation, it is therefore essential that the means of conversion be continued, so that the focus on other industrial developments in these areas is increased and maintained. Thus, in a situation where fewer of the Sami population are directly involved in the reindeer industry, the focus on culture and languages as the main pillars of Norway’s co-policy effort is also important to underline and reinforce.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e257	The President finds it necessary to say the following: from the Committee's point of view, a debate was originally proposed. In the event of an incursion at the beginning of the matter, this was not encouraged to vote. The President has then practised the scheme that was outlined, and will, if not opposed by the Chamber, continue its practice – and consider that this has been adopted. As a continuation of the debate, the following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e262	The background to my taking the floor was the line that Carl I. Hagen came along with. I fully share the opinions expressed here by Karin Andersen on behalf of SV. As a finnmarking, I've also recorded the play that Carl I. Hagen here mentions, that individuals speak, for example. on the national day, on the national flag or on the nation in such a way that it can be perceived by some as creating insecurity in the population that they speak towards a state formation. I also record individuals talking as if you were going to have an embassy in Oslo. I record that Janos Trosten in his time ordered that oil fields outside the Finnish coast should be managed by the Sametinget and be a Sami property. But what I keep recording is that these are individuals. I also record that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen in a radio program a few days ago devalued the role played by Waffen SS during the war. I don't see that it's the general attitude of the Advance Party on Nazism during World War II, and I think that Carl I. Hagen would have been quite furious if you had expressed it too. What I also record is that when the ILO Convention was ratified at the Grand Council on 7 June 1990, no one from the Progress Party once took the floor in that debate, and they themselves agreed to ratify it. What is now being given in Finnmark is a debate on the consequences of that ratification, as well as a debate on – one has to see the context – the consequences of the Joint Committee’s investigation. There will be very different perceptions in the population. Both SV and I have stated that there is no need to contribute to creating a distinction on an ethnic basis, because it will be conflict-making. But it's clear that if you take the statements of individuals, if I were to take statements today from Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, blow them up in a size like Carl I. Hagen here does in the case of individuals in Finnmark, and state that these were general opinions that the Progress Party stood for, as Carl I. Hagen does in the case of general opinions that need to be shared, you're not helping to dampen the conflict, as the Progress Party here says, you're helping to strengthen it. You look for the flakes you can find to confirm that there are even stronger conflicts here, and then you blow them up. And it's clear that it's a challenge for some people each to debate it in Finnmark, to debate it in a sober way, to express factual disagreement, but not to present it, for example, as if the Sameting stands for attitudes that individuals who are not even members there express. I was present myself – Carl I. Hagen was not – during the opening of the Sameting now in the autumn. I don't remember any of the statements to which this is referenced were statements that came from representatives from the pulpit there, or that some majority in the Sameting expressed it. What I got the impression, on the other hand, was a rather searching attitude to how to get ashore with this, just as there are searching attitudes to it among other Nordics in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e275	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e291	I have promoted this interpellation because I am concerned that the new right to healthcare in the Patient Rights Act will be the breakpoint for faster treatment as a unanimous increase would it be. I have promoted the interpellation because I am concerned that the draft regulation from the Minister of Health, who is now being consulted, is not in accordance with the express opinion of the Storting. I have not promoted this interpellation because I want to have a fight about the design of the law. I believe, of course, that our proposal to legislate for an individual, medically justified right and time limit for treatment is best. But that train is gone, at least for this time. But the Right was united with the Workers' Party and the government parties to say all the premises for the right to health care. That is why I feel a co-responsibility that the premises are being followed up in the regulations. I am sure that all the parties involved are interested in this. The premise of the committee on the right to health care is extensive, but clear and not misunderstandings on essential points. The committee majority said: that the right should not be linked to the waiting time guarantee that the right should be granted within a period of time related to sound medical judgement that the economic resources made available must be sufficient for the right to be a management and good resource use instrument for vulnerable groups to be entitled to a breakpoint in order to achieve basic health services; In plain text, this means that we should disregard the general, diagnostic-related right of the waiting guarantee and the general three-month period and to a right based on sound medical judgement. The latter means an individually set deadline. Therefore, the majority of the Committee assumes that ‘the system of waiting time regulations will apply until the new law enters into force’. Nevertheless, in the draft consultation, the Ministry proposes that the waiting period should not be replaced by a new and better one. Now we're going to get it nobody wanted a year ago: the law of the waiting guarantee. The majority of the Committee considered that the priority groups of the Wage II Committee should form the basis for entitlement to health care. Group 1 on basic health care and Group 2 on complementary health care are ‘those who will be entitled mainly to the necessary health care’. The majority of the vote was cast. We also mentioned that we had to clarify whether parts of Group 3 should not be included. Prioritisation Groups 1 and 2 of the Wages and salaries II Committee formed the basis for the definition of the criteria for waiting time regulation, says the Department, and they claim that if we do not continue to base the waiting time regulation on health care rights, we will have to introduce completely new criteria for prioritisation. Of course it's not like that. No one has asked for new priority criteria; it is the practice of them through the waiting period regulation Stortinget has said no. To be honest, I thought the Health Minister also agreed. That is why he did not put forward any proposal for the statutory maintenance of the waiting period guarantee, or statutory treatment or health care rights. The priority criteria in Wages II and the Waiting Time Regulation I believe should be the starting point, but not the end point for the right to health care. The end point must be based on individual medical judgement. That's the new thing. Therefore, the Committee in its recommendation states that the time limit should be linked to sound medical judgement. One and the same diagnosis is not necessarily as serious for all patients. The severity and time period within which the patient should receive treatment must be determined by the treating physician. It is this medical discretion that the waiting time guarantee has been disregarded, therefore many doctors and health professionals have also been so sceptical about this guarantee scheme in general. Today's waiting period, as I see it, actually undermines the concept of safety with its general three-month term, because the individual doctor is disconnected from taking responsibility for individual assessment of whether the diagnosis of the patient is so serious that he has to be entitled to treatment within a certain period of time. I think it must be the doctor who in the clinical everyday life assesses and determines what is the proper treatment of the individual patient. That is why I believe that the draft regulation violates the premise of the Stortinget on the basis of its decision on the right to health care on this point. That's why I also think it's going to be a crazy conclusion when the ministry in the draft says: ‘Since the current criteria under the Waiting Time Guarantee Regulation are based on the recommendations of the Wage II Committee, the Ministry takes the view that the continuation of these criteria is in line with the intentions of the majority’s opinions in the position of the Social Committee.’; So they're not the way we've meant them. The waiting period, at best based on group 1 and some of group 2, is too restrictive in relation to the Committee's wish that both group 1, group 2 and perhaps also parts of group 3 should benefit from the right to health care. The Ministry then also discusses in the draft regulations whether it is necessary to agree to a general or individual deadline, because there is nothing clear about this in the legal paragraph, although I believe that it is quite clear what the Committee has meant by reading the preambles. The Ministry acknowledges that, on the basis of an assessment of safety, different time limits should be set, but they therefore nevertheless disregard the safety criterion, since it is then claimed that ‘in relatively similar cases a very different time limit is set’ because it is assumed that the personal judgement of the individual physician will vary. Of course it will. But the ministry also claims that individual deadlines can be used by the doctors as a breakpoint for increased resources. This claims the ministry ‘will give wrong incentives and increase the mistrust of the health care system’. It is rather the lack of resources than the fact that there are too many resources that have led to the fact that many, unfortunately, today have distrust of our health care system. However, the Ministry concludes by recommending a general maximum period of three months without giving any grounds. This may be because a general deadline cannot be justified, at least not medically, as the Committee has provided. The Ministry’s proposal actually involves the legalisation of today’s waiting time guarantee. We've got no one wanted it less than a year ago. There's a reason to ask what has made the Minister of Health turn around. Could it be that when he was first given a legally binding right to health care, which he would not initially have, it costs less to legalize the waiting period guarantee? For where has the Minister of Health been afraid that the capacity would not extend? Yeah, now it's just in the Ministry's proposal: ‘However, attachment to the law does not in itself imply the need for an increase in the income of the county councils in addition to the reimbursements already contained in the income system.’ The Ministry also assesses ‘which is fully possible to transfer resources from less serious sick patients to patients with a right to treatment’. Thus, according to the Ministry, the right to health care is to be introduced at the expense of other and less serious ill patients who need treatment. Therefore, they also conclude that: «The introduction of a right to treatment with a general maximum period of 3 months will be possible within the existing financial framework for the specialist health service». Of course it will be possible, because that's what we have today, it's the waiting time guarantee, but it was something else and something more the Storting would want. That is why I also believe that the general three-month period is contrary to the Committee's premises. It is clear that the Department regards the right to health care as a means of allocating a given size. The cake is baked - it cannot be made bigger. You have to share the resources that are there today. So it's not about using the right to increase access to health care. Was that what the Storting wanted? I thought that the Minister of Health, the Government Parties, the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party agreed that there was something else and something more we wanted with the new right to health care, as we agreed in the new Patient Rights Act. It was supposed to be an active contribution, different from the waiting time guarantee, because we realized its weaknesses. It should be an active contribution to the faster provision of help to several patients. I hope and assume that the Minister of Health is now reconsidering his view and making regulations that are in line with what the Stortinget has actually wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e368	The majority decided, as we know, in our new law on patient rights. One of the key provisions on access to healthcare is the provision for the right to necessary health care. As regards the more detailed content of the concept of ‘necessary health care’, the majority of the Social Committee referred to the position of the priorities of the Wage II Committee. The majority say that groups 1 and 2, i.e. patients in need of basic and complementary health care shall be entitled to the necessary health care; an assessment of parts of group 3 will also be made. The Ministry has drawn up, on the basis of the provision on the right to necessary health care, a draft regulation on the content of the necessary health care. The draft is now in consultation with the deadline of 18 February this year. On the basis of the opinions given in the consultation round, I will take a decision on the design of the final draft. I have noticed that a minority in the discussion of the budget stated that they wanted the regulation to be presented to the Stortinget. I see it as useful that this interpellation can serve as a basis for discussing the more detailed content of the right to necessary health care, and I would like to take with me the signals from the debate in the final political discussion of the regulation. As the representative of Høegh points out in his interpellation, the Ministry has set out in the draft regulation the same criteria for prioritisation resulting from the new regulation on waiting time guarantee of 1997. This is in accordance with the position of the majority of the Social Committee, which states: ‘This means that the patient groups that can be defined into Wage II Groups 1 and 2, i.e. patients in need of basic and complementary health care are those who will be entitled to the essential health care.» The 1997 waiting-time guarantee regulation replaced the previous waiting-list regulation of 25 July 1990. The experience of the previous waiting list regulation showed that the diagnostic criteria system did not seem to work according to the intention to prioritize the seriously ill. Therefore, an evaluation of the criteria on which the regulation was based was carried out. The Wage II Committee was therefore asked to develop ‘Guidelines for health priorities as a continuation of the prioritisation committee’s position, NOU No. 23 1987 Guidelines for Norwegian health care priorities’. The sample grouped on three priority criteria: first, the severity of the condition; second, the availability of treatment that has been proven to be effective; and third, the expected results should be in an acceptable proportion to the costs. In parallel with the work of the Wage II Committee, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health asked Professor Dr. Knut Rasmussen to lead a separate working group to create an alternative to the waiting list system. In assessing the severity of the disease, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health asked the Working Party to consider the conditions of prioritisation of the Pay II Committee. The Rasmussen Group’s recommendation, like the Wage II Committee, was based on the basic ideals of the Wage I Committee on the severity of the disease and the patient’s suffering and functional requirements as well as the effectiveness of the treatment and that the results should be in an acceptable proportion to the costs. The criteria for the treatment guarantee set out in the regulation of 27 June 1997 on waiting time guarantee are the Ministry’s attempt to specify criteria corresponding to the setting of priority groups 1 and 2 of the Wage Committee, and they were designed in accordance with the principles proposed by the Wage II Committee and the Rasmussen Group. As I have understood the majority's opinions in the Social Committee's attitude to the Patient Rights Act, it is these criteria and principles that will underpin the priority of patients under the Patient Rights Act. Therefore, a continuation of the criteria, which is based on the recommendations of the Wage II Committee, I believe follow up the majority’s opinions in the referral to the Patient Rights Act. It is also important to clarify that the criticism raised against the new waiting-time guarantee regulation has not addressed the criteria underlying the priority. In this context, a 1996 survey of health professionals on their views on the previous regulation on waiting list registration may be referred to. The study showed that 90 pst. by the respondents in the study, it was considered that the severity of the disease, the severity of the patient’s distress and the prospects for improvement should be given the highest priority. The 1997 Regulation is precisely based on such criteria. On the other hand, the criticism of the waiting period guarantee has largely linked to the very different practice of granting treatment guarantee. It is right, as the representative, Mr Höegh, points out, that I have been among those who have been very critical of this practice. However, this is a problem that will arise to varying degrees in all cases where a judgement is made. In my opinion, new criteria must also be open to medical judgement. A medical assessment will always be discretionary and thus there will be a risk of different practices. This problem cannot be resolved without delay by introducing new criteria. In order to contribute to a more similar health care practice, there is an important few professional consensus on the practice of the criteria. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the State Health Authority and the Norwegian Medical Association have therefore started work on this. In my opinion, it is important to stimulate sustainable and comprehensive processes in the professional environments in order to succeed in the work of professional consensus. It is the professionally inspired priority culture that will affect the daily clinical work. As said earlier, the criteria in the waiting time guarantee regulation are based on the principles underlying the prioritisation of patients in the position of the Wage II Committee and which the majority of the Social Committee stated were a good starting point for what should be considered as necessary health care. The Ministry thus considers that the majority of the opinions expressed in the referral should be followed up by setting the corresponding criteria for the priority under the Patient Rights Act. In the light of the efforts made, and now made, to achieve a more consistent practice according to today’s criteria, it is not appropriate to give the same criteria a completely new wording. This may result in confusion as to how the criteria are to be understood. It appears from the opinion of the Social Committee that a time limit for health care is assumed to be laid down. It has been assessed whether a general or individual deadline should be given. An argument that can speak for an individual deadline is that there will be individual differences between patients that suggest that different deadlines should be set. On the other hand, however, the time limits may vary considerably also for similar cases, because the setting of the time limit will be linked to the discretion of the individual physician. There will also be a risk that the setting of individual deadlines may give rise to adverse incentives. If short individual deadlines are set, there will also be little flexibility in re-priorities. Flexibility will be necessary to respond to the unforeseen need for immediate help or an increased influx of new patients with more severe disorders. Lack of flexibility may require the setting of available capacity in order to avoid delays. This could thus place considerable resources in place. In addition, the risk of non-compliance with deadlines will be significantly increased. The Ministry has therefore proposed in the draft regulation a general maximum period of three months. However, it is important to clarify that this is a maximum period. Of course, the treating physician must consider whether it is medically appropriate to allow the patient to wait for this period of time. In this context, it is also important that it follows from the right-to-assessment provision that the patient should have proper feedback on when treatment is expected to be given in the individual case. For such information and feedback, the hospital service has a significant potential for improvement, which needs to be followed up. The priority of the patient within the maximum time limit must be based on an individual medical evaluation. With today’s guarantee scheme, more than half of patients receive treatment within one month. The government will await the hearing before taking a final decision on how to regulate the deadline issue, and I would like to listen with interest to the views expressed in this debate. As mentioned above, the criteria underpinning the right to the necessary health care are the same criteria resulting from today’s waiting list guarantee regulation. Furthermore, a general deadline of three months has also been set. However, it is important to stress that it is the legal provision for the right to necessary health care that basically regulates the patient’s right. The regulation on what is considered necessary health care and the time limit for treatment is only a supplement to this provision in the Patient Rights Act itself. The right to necessary healthcare in the Patient Rights Act is a right provision which has a different formal status from the treatment guarantee provision in the waiting time guarantee regulation. The current provision for a waiting period guarantee is primarily a regulation on obligations for county councils and their institutions. It is highly doubtful whether the regulation can also be said to grant the patient some treatment rights. Failure to comply with the right to the necessary health care under the Patient Rights Act could be charged to the county doctor. Such formal appeal will involve the adoption of a decision by the county doctor and it must be assumed that the decision of the county doctor must be followed up by the county council. Furthermore, the decision of the county doctor could be reviewed by the courts. It will thus be easier to bring an action before the Court in order to seek the right to the necessary health care than is the case under today's waiting period guarantee regulations. The patient will thus have greater opportunities to put pressure on residents to fulfil the right to health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e419	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was most exciting at the beginning, I think, where he said that he would listen to the debate and put the signals that came into the debate, on his mind. That is why I should not go too far now, because I have heard colleagues' views on this. But I noticed, perhaps not as surprising as a first post from the Council of State, that it was entirely in line with the draft consultation he has sent out. There was little opening there to concede after the wording of my interpellation and my post that here there could be things that were on the collision course with what we're in the majority have meant by the premises. That is why I hope that it will become clear to the Council of State during the debate that it is necessary here to make regulations that reflect in a completely different way what Stortinget has meant by the right to health care. It's true, of course, as the Council of State says, that regulations have a lower status than the legal text, and that it is the legal text that applies, but the legal text is relatively open and general at this point. So, of course, the Council of State knows just as well as we do here in Stortinget, that the regulations will be decisive for the way in which this paragraph of law is enforced. And if we're going to get something other than today's waiting time guarantee, then there have to be other regulations – that's my reverential claim. The Council of State spoke of the importance of flexibility and the fact that a short period of time could prevent it. Yes, in a system where everything is given, where the financial frameworks are given, where hospitals through an effort-driven funding that, in any case, I believe gives too little incentive because it pays too little for the extra patients they are treating, it will of course be so. It is also one of the criticisms that I am addressing the Ministry's consultation draft, that it is based on the fact that this law, this paragraph on the right to health care, should not be a breakage bar, should not be a good thing for patients in the sense that patients' demands for treatment will also have to some extent manage resource access to the healthcare system. So it's clear that flexibility becomes important if you think that you don't have a law that makes it possible to bake more cake gradually. I would ask the Council of State to assess whether the department is not going well when they simply continue the waiting time guarantee. Wages and salaries II principles and priority criteria are not at issue. It's the practice of those who are the important thing. It is strange whether the Storting should adopt a new law that is new only in its name. Then the waiting warranty rule would remain fully alive, as it has been until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e435	I can assure the representative, Høegh, that I have had no other intention with the draft that is now being consulted, than in a conscientious manner to follow up the Storting's treatment of the Patient Rights Act. The intention of a hearing is precisely in the consultation round to try out different views on this operationalisation. I also note that we agree on important points. It is quite clear that there is a consensus that the priorities of the Wage II Committee should be based. It is an undeniable fact that these priority criteria also underlie the waiting time guarantee rule adopted by the Labour Party Government in 1997 and which is not a diagnostic priority, as the representative Höegh seems to give an impression of his intervention, but a priority based on seriousness. We also agree that the practice of this scheme has not been satisfactory. That is what we have done, and I believe that the professional work done to ensure a more consistent practice is also necessary in relation to new regulations. Then to the resource question. I don't think there is any doubt in this room that there will be a need for increased resources for healthcare in the future. The size has just asked for a full review of the resource situation with a view to ensuring that there is sufficient resources for a continued increase in hospital activity. The government is working on that and coming back to Stortinget already next month with the result of it. So to make this consultation draft an expression by the Government that you're not willing to invest increased resources in hospitals, I think, is unreasonable. But when this is said, I am prepared to do what I can to ensure that the regulations are as consistent as possible with the leadership given by the Stortinget, in the preparation of the draft regulation, on the basis of the consultation round and the debate that we have here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e446	The Patient Rights Act confers on large patient groups a legal right to health care, which is stated in Section 2-1: ‘The patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare service. The health service shall provide the applicant or needing health care with the health and treatment information necessary for the exercise of his right.» This interpellation is not a treatment of the consultation note to the regulations on patient rights law. The Working Party believes that the Stortinget is not a suitable body for the treatment of regulations. I would therefore like to clarify, as the case rapporteur for the Patient Rights Act, key comments in relation to the above quotation from the legal text. One of the reasons for my party's commitment is that the lack of health care rights can reinforce the public's uncertainty about getting health care, which may weaken public health care confidence. I find, on the basis of what I see in the draft consultation, reason to stress that with the uncertainty that is still linked to the quality and uniformity of the waiting lists we have today, a right to treatment should not be linked to the waiting time guarantee system itself, as stated in a unanimous comitology note. The majority of the Committee also stated that patient groups that can be defined into Wage II Groups 1 and 2 and parts of Group 3 are those that are primarily entitled to the necessary health care. The majority of the committee assumes that the waiting period may be phased out once the Patient Rights Act has entered into force. Otherwise, a joint committee has provided that, inter alia: the following premises are used for the right: ‘Reference is made to the guidelines already adopted for the assessment guarantee. This is taken into account and means that the individual patient should have been informed of: (a) the treatment which he may expect to receive when the examination or treatment is to be carried out.»; It appears that the proposals in what is still a draft consultation are not fully in line with the Committee's majority comments. I expect the Health Minister, after the consultation round, to bring the regulations fully into line with the decision of the Committee and the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e479	In my opinion, it was stated in a clear text from an overall social committee that the waiting time guarantee was not a suitable tool for prioritising individual patients in relation to the right to treatment. One of the most positive things that happened during the treatment of the Patient Rights Act was that it was medical judgement in relation to the individual patient who was to determine the time factor for which this patient should be treated. It is then, in my opinion, a complete misunderstanding on the part of the department to claim that the waiting time regulations would be necessary to maintain and enter the Wages II priorities. The priorities of Wage II are there, the practice of the criteria takes place in the relationship between doctor and patient, and it is the medical professional judgement which must determine the time factor for treatment. The forwarding party has been opposed to the scheme since the introduction of the waiting-time guarantee scheme. We have proposed it removed repeatedly, without it being possible to get through to it. The Patient Rights Act was adopted, and it was professionally responsible for the severity and nature of the disease to determine the time factor for treatment – whether the patient was in groups 1, 2 or even in group 3. It is no surprise to me to record that the Ministry claims that the retention of rights in practice will not automatically result in increased expenditure on the state and revenue for the county municipalities. This political thinking was also decisive on the part of the majority of the social committee, which did not give the patient a legal right to treatment without restriction. In this context, I would like to argue that it is necessary to reduce health cows in Norway, it must cost more money, and the financial framework for the overall health care system needs to be significantly increased. The fact that the current government and the current majority are not willing to do so is, in my opinion, just to complain – and then the complaint is on behalf of the patients. At my discretion, it is marginal what can be taken into account in production gains at no greater cost. If you want more treatment, you have to take the consequences of it and grant more resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e496	In the examination of the Patient Rights Act, the Social Committee agreed that the right to healthcare should be legalised. I would like to stress that there is a difference between the right to necessary health care in the Patient Rights Act and the waiting period. The Patient Rights Act is a right provision for each patient, while the waiting-time guarantee regulation primarily obliges county municipalities and their institutions. The Committee considered it right that the right to treatment should not be linked to the waiting time guarantee itself because of uncertainties related to the quality and uniformity of the waiting lists. It was pointed out in the setting that it is a problem that the states practise the waiting time guarantee differently. So criticism is not directed at the criteria underlying the priority but at the practice. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health stated in his statement that the Ministry of Social Affairs, the State Health Agency and the Norwegian Medical Association have started work to contribute to similar health care practices. It is important to have a professional consensus on the practice of the criteria. Work on finding safe professional premises for describing diagnostics and treatment arrangements will in the long term reduce the coincidences you have seen. There are often small margins between what are safe criteria for getting on a waiting list and what may be unacceptable. As regards the deadline for health care, what the Minister of Health pointed out is arguments both for the individual deadline and for the general deadline. The regulation proposes a maximum period of three months. In the committee setting, it says: «The patient shall receive the necessary health care within a period of time related to sound medical judgement.» So it's the treating doctor who has to assess how long it's safe to keep the patient waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e514	I share the concern of the representative, Høegh, about the proposal in the consultation note that the Minister for Health has sent out to the hearing. It is not, as many have been involved, in line with the clear opinion of the Storting. The Minister for Health attaches the right to health care to the same priority criteria as in the waiting time guarantee. However, the Social Committee stated in its opinion that a right of treatment should not be linked to the waiting period. When the Syse government introduced the waiting list guarantee, the intention was that it should be a legal right. This was never the case, because later governments have interpreted away this right. The waiting guarantee has largely functioned as a flight attendant. In the light of this experience, the Right would improve this and have proposed that the patient should have an individual, medically justified right to and time limit for treatment. But this court did not get the patients, because the Workers' Party and the government parties voted against, although it had obviously been best for the patients. The right given to patients by the Workers' Party and government parties was a law with many ambiguities and reservations and great powers to the ministry. It became, as I feared, like putting the goat to look after the oat sack. The Ministry has to define content through regulations, and we now see the result in the draft consultation – this being in the light of the fact that the Minister of Health has not been a driver for giving patients the right to health care, to put it mildly. On the contrary, he just warned against this through the media during the processing of the law. He warned against legislating this court. His warning was that there would be a race of complaints and lawsuits. But there are precisely the vague legal objectives of the majority for the right to treatment that would have provided the basis for appeals. However, I am pleased that the Minister of Health now says that, after the consultation round and the debate here in Stortinget, he is prepared to ensure that the regulations are fully consistent with the intentions of the Stortinget. It implies, as I see it, that regulations must be made different from those contained in the consultation note today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e525	I am pleased with what I have heard from the interpellant here today, because I began to become seriously concerned about what priority criteria we should base in the Norwegian health care system. Last week we dealt with a case of employer-paid patient treatment and healthcare, and there was also the priority issue of absenteeism. In the context of the interpellation, it emerges that wrong priority criteria are used, and the priority criteria referred to are based on the recommendations of the Wage Committee, and that is, of course, those on which we build the Norwegian health system in relation to priority criteria. Fortunately, today's interpellant has cancelled what is in the interpellant's interview that one should not use 'the same priority criteria as in the waiting time regulation' – which is supposed to be the waiting time guarantee regulations – and I am glad, because we must have medical criteria if we are to have something to prioritise after. I believe that the Ministry has laid the foundations of what the majority of the Social Committee has said in relation to the treatment of the Patient Rights Act. The setting reads as follows: ‘This means that the patient groups that can be defined into Wage II Groups 1 and 2, i.e. patients in need of basic and complementary health care are those who will be entitled to the essential health care.» This is the emphasis on it. Then we have the ratio to the three-month guarantee, which is a maximum time. And as the Council of State has also said here today: within that time, of course, medical evaluations and judgements should be based, such as: The representative Alvheim was inside. I think that what is now important is to get regulations good enough and practice well enough so that the patient is well informed about what treatment he should receive, when and in what way this treatment is to be given, that there are proper procedures for that briefing and information, and that it is then followed up in practical action and with appropriations. This with the health economy has been a lot of stress, and I agree with what has been said that increased activity and quality will also mean increased costs. In my opinion, we have seen the consequences of this, for example. in the context of the additional appropriations that went through the Storting in December – just a few months ago – and the review that is now taking place in the case of the hospital economy, which we are given the opportunity to deal with here when we arrive at March-April.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e544	The Stortinget should not normally discuss draft regulations, but should normally also the Stortinget, i.e. legislative, majority and legislative observations form the basis for the work on regulations in the Ministry. I would like to stress that the bulk of the population in the treatment of this law wanted to improve the situation for Norwegian patients. The majority say that the right is linked to the extent and severity of the condition and not to the waiting time guarantee, with which unfortunately we have poor experience. I would like to stress that a joint committee stresses that the individual patient should have been informed of what treatment he can expect to receive and when examination or treatment should be given. I want to ask the Council of State how he will follow up to the hospitals that this clear intention from the Stortinget is put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e553	I would like to thank the participating representatives in the interpellation debate. I think it has been useful and clarifying. I also thank the Minister of Health for having so clearly stated that he will at least take this debate as the important signals from the Storting as it is, into the work on the final regulations after the consultation deadline has expired. It may well be – I will not be surprised if so – that part of the answers he receives will be quite well in line with the views expressed today by a clear majority in the United Kingdom, and I see the clear majority as being composed of the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right. In spite of the fact that the Minister of Health is trying to argue – naturally – on the basis of the fact that the draft consultation is in line with the wishes of the Stortinge, it is therefore a clear majority who believe that it is not, as it appears today, and I hope that it will guide the regulations that the Ministry finally lays down. As well as the Gunhild Eyeyang as Asmund Kristoffersen – and the representative Alvheim and myself – have clearly stated that the waiting warranty regulation should be phased out, as Kristoffersen said, when the new law enters into force. I find it difficult to understand how the Minister of Health, who has been so sceptical about the waiting-time guarantee scheme, has now in a way turned around and said that it is good for guidance. This is not so much about the priority criteria that we agree on. The little confusion that has been about this, I hope is attached, for it was never there. However, when the Committee has clearly stated that medical judgement and the doctor’s assessment of the individual patient’s needs should be taken into account, and the Ministry also states in its draft consultation that the requirement for safety is for an individual period of time, but nevertheless concludes with a general period of three months – a maximum period – it is difficult to understand that this has medical reasons. I'm pretty sure it has financial reasons. On the other hand, in order to obtain the flexibility demanded by the Minister of Health for economic reasons, it may be medically appropriate to give certain patients the right to treatment, but with a longer period of time than three months. So no matter how you turn it around, the Storting wanted something other than the waiting-time guarantee scheme, and we hope that that's what we're going to get now when the Minister of Health makes the final regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e562	Let me first say that the right to treatment should not be linked to the waiting time guarantee system and that the 1997 regulation will be repealed when the new regulation enters into force. At the same time, the Committee has said in its position, and the debate here has shown that the right should continue to be linked to the same priority criteria as the current regulation, which is, therefore, completely different from the old regulation of 1990, which was based on diagnostics. It shall be based on seriousness and shall be based on a medical assessment of the seriousness. What has emerged in the debate on the importance of following guidelines in relation to the individual patient’s being informed of what treatment he can expect to receive, and when a study or treatment is to be given, I fully agree with that is very central, and I will follow it up through the regulation. I would also like to follow it up in the work outlined in the Storing Communication on values in healthcare, which takes into account the importance of health care focusing even more strongly on the individual patient’s meeting, respectable treatment and treatment with dignity in relation to just information and patient contact. Let me end by saying that I have noticed the views expressed, I have noticed the statements made by the representatives of Kristoffersen and Eyeågen in relation to this, and the other articles that have come, and will include it in the final political discussion of the regulation, with the clear aim that it is the intention of Stortingen to be taken into account in the regulation. However, I would have to distance myself from the view expressed by the representative Alvheim that this government and this majority who have thus passed this very law have not been willing to increase the use of resources in healthcare. During the period I have been responsible for health care as a government council, it has been a formidable growth both for hospitals and for other parts of health care. We agree that there is a need for significant escalation in the years ahead. It has actually adopted a unanimous increase, and the government is following it up year after year in the annual budgets, so I have to say that I think that kind of claims, that you are not willing to increase resource use in healthcare, fall on your own unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e575	So the debate is on case No. End of 2
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e581	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e597	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-10.ana.ud626e606	There is no record.
