ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e34	Ot. pp. No 30 deals with legal rules that allow the securities funds to make the distribution of funds to persons other than unit-holders, as well as minor amendments to the statutory act and the Securities Trading Act. Annelise Høegh and Per-Kristian Foss proposed in Document No. 8:30 in the case of 1998-1999, that the mutual fund law should be amended in such a way as to allow the creation of non-profit mutual funds. The store agreed to this. It is this proposal that we will now legislate. It is a unanimous decision of the Committee. The Committee is essentially in agreement with the Government’s legislative proposal, except on one point. It is clear from the proposal that the distribution of funds can only be carried out to organisations which must be considered as having a broad non-profit-making purpose, NPISHs/foundings. This is in agreement with the Committee. However, the delimitation of which organisations can receive funds was linked to the tax law § 6-50. The Committee has come to the conclusion, after consultation within the Committee, that the tax law imposes strict requirements on which organisations or foundations may be eligible for the distribution of funds. The Committee considers that there is insufficient justification for linking the proposed rules on non-profit institutions and some provisions of the tax law § 6-50. Ideally, no tax deductions are granted; this is only an alternative way for unit-holders to give away the money. In the light of the Committee's opinion, it is therefore not reasonable to impose the same requirements on organisations that may receive funds from non-profit institutions, such as gifts to tax-deductible organisations. The Government’s proposed delimitation that the organisation must have at least 3000 members per. 1 January of the year in which the grant is granted is problematic. Such demarcation will exclude organisations with low membership levels, such as: Legs without borders and the National Association in support of crawl death, the last one we don't want to have many members. On this basis, the Committee has unanimously agreed that the delimitation should be amended to allow the distribution of funds to organisations with a national scope and complying with the first paragraph of § 6 to 50 of the Tax Act. The securities funds are subject to a strict public framework and the credit supervision shall continue to oversee the funds so that further control measures appear unnecessary. Furthermore, the Committee agrees that supervision must also cover the distribution by management companies of funds from the Fund to voluntary organisations. Finally, the changes proposed by the Government in the Securities Trading Act are logical, since Postbanken BA was changed to AS and subsequently merged with the Norwegian Bank. The same applies to the Norwegian Municipal Bank, which was transformed into the Municipal Bank of AS in 1999. When we dealt with the new statutory auditor's law, the transfer of audit tasks by the association and reorganisation of the audit firm was not included. The Committee agrees that this access is reintroduced into the new audit law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e55	The content of this proposition is very important for what we often call the third sector, voluntary teams and organisations in Norway. This part of Organisation Norway carries out an invaluable and completely unreplaceable social effort. We know that many of these teams and organizations are struggling with the economy, despite the fact that they don't waste their resources in heavy administration or fat wages. Therefore, the reality of this matter is a valuable contribution. Organisation-Noreg is very inconsistency. Some organisations have very many members, registered in a central membership register. Others are layer and group based without a central membership register, but with a high level of activity and many actors. Even other organisations have such a character that the purpose is to have fewer members, even if the organisation has a national scope. The case spokesman mentioned examples of such an organisation. It is important that different incentive and support schemes are designed in such a way that organisations do not have to change the form and nature of the organisation in order to adapt to bureaucratic legislation. The starting point must always be the best for the organisations, and then we get the red tape after that – not the other way around. I am pleased that a group committee is in favour of the condition that the membership of the scheme should not be a specific number of members, but that the organisation should have a national scope. National scope does not mean activity in e.g. all states, but an exposure far beyond local activity. As it is now possible for the decision to be taken in this matter, it will clearly be a handshake and a good support for the valuable social work done by voluntary teams and organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e70	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e78	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e199	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e206	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-18-lower-2.ana.ud2e215	There is no record available.
