ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e33	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the remaining meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e38	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e43	Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are proposed as chairpersons. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen and Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the Stortinget meeting today and for the remaining meetings of the current week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e55	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time of the President-in-Office of the Council be set at 15 minutes, and that the maximum speaking time of the main speakers of each party group, as well as a Council of State, be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers, including possibly other Councils of State, at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition of the individual statements. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e62	When the government, after several years of work, presented its message about Svalbard last fall, it was largely just a good word to hear. It was therefore in the cards that the treatment in Stortinget should be characterised by broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian swallowing policy. It's turned on. The position we are discussing today is unanimous in all essential questions. The few available repeat earlier disagreements on some environmental issues and a slightly greater impatience in the introduction of local government. In the committee we have been committed to working towards consensus, because we believe that it is a strength for the credibility of our swallowing policy. The Foreign Affairs Committee has been a responsible committee because the Svalbard Treaty is the basis for Norway’s management of the Svalbard exercise of sovereignty. However, although the Foreign Affairs Committee has been in charge of the practical and formal examination of the notification, the Committee has received input from a number of the Scientific Committees in Stortinget. The Justice Committee, the Municipal Committee and the Church and Education Committee visited Svalbard during the spring – other committees were on Svalbard last year – in addition to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I find reason to thank all our interlocutors at Svalbard for having so kindly set up almost all the days. Without their help, our work would have been far more difficult. When Stortinget today discusses the main lines of Norwegian future swallowing policy, I feel confident that we have an overview and insight into most of the key issues addressed in the communication. As the rapporteur, it is my hope that we have succeeded in designing a position that provides clear leadership for the Norwegian administration of Svalbard into a new century. I also hope that everyone who is affected by the conclusions of the vote will conclude on the overall policy for the swallowing area that we have tried to formulate on behalf of the Stortinget. Then, of course, one can ask: Why is it important that Norway exercises sovereignty? First of all, because Svalbard is part of the Kingdom of Norway. Secondly, there is an obvious strategic justification. The cold war is over, but the geographical location of Svalbard remains of great strategic importance: if you look at the globe with the North Pole in its centre, you can clearly see the geopolitical location of the archipelago. Furthermore, climatic conditions are exceptionally favourable compared to any other location on the earth at the same latitude. Svalbard is therefore easily available all year round. The marine areas around Svalbard contain large geological and biological resources. The sea areas around Svalbard approach the Norwegian economic zone, or areas where Norway continues to have border negotiations. Norwegian presence makes it possible to monitor and control the environmental situation in the area. As I said, the basis for Norwegian presence and the exercise of sovereignty on Svalbard is the Svalbard Treaty. For 80 years the Treaty has confirmed Norway’s full and unrestricted sovereignty on the island group. As a sovereign, Norway has, within the framework of the Treaty, the responsibility and freedom to determine the instruments to be used to guide the development on and around the island group in the desired direction. It is important to see Norwegian swallowing policy in this broad international framework. A clear and consistent Norwegian presence on the island group is the main means of exercising sovereignty. In addition to the employment office, such presence is best expressed by maintaining a Norwegian settlement on the island group. A differentiated and modern business life helps make it attractive to live at Svalbard. Nevertheless, all human activity, business, resource use, research and education are to be carried out within the framework of the conservation of nature and the environment at Svalbard. The Norwegian authorities have chosen to invest in a full-year residence, Longyearbyen, with a social structure that is as similar as the continental communities as possible. Today, there are between 1,200 and 1,500 people living in Longyearbyen. This is considered to be sufficient to enable citizens to receive a good and comprehensive service and leisure service. The employer is Norway's leading representative on the island group and a central tool in the implementation of Norwegian swallowing policy. The employee manages national interests both in relation to foreign settlements and actors, in relation to resource conservation and in relation to the best possible protection of the environment. The workforce also plays an important role in the efficient and flexible management of the interests of the State in Longyearbyen and the rest of the island group. The Committee has been particularly concerned with the direct and clear presence of the staff member as a representative of the Government in relation to foreign settlements and actors. On the other hand, we believe that part of the ‘municipal’ tasks of the employee should be able to be transferred to the local government in Longyearbyen when it is established. In relation to these, it is likely appropriate to allow the worker to act as a county manager. It's been 15 years since the Stortinget last had a general and comprehensive debate on Svalbard. Incredibly much has happened on the island group since then, although the main reason why there is Norwegian activity on the island group is the same, namely our responsibility as a sovereign. Glasnost has led to a better relationship between the Norwegian and Russian settlement than ever. The awareness of our responsibility for managing and preserving Svalbard's unique natural environment and cultural memories has been gradually strengthened during the period. The establishment of UNIS in Longyearbyen, the professionalisation of the New Year's Health Research Station and technological installations, such as EISCAT, SvalSat and SvalRak, are all good examples of the joyous growth and development that has taken place in the field of research and education. While new industries, such as research, education and tourism, have been strengthened, coal production has gained relatively less importance. Large Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkompani AS is no longer a pot and pan in «Company Town», but one of several enterprises. Today, Longyearbyen is seen as a modern, well-equipped and well-functioning society, with a varied nutritional base. Moreover, during these years there has been a notable decentralisation of responsibility and authority. In addition, there has been significant growth in private enterprises. As a result, policy authorities have reduced their ability to drive overall governance of developments in areas of national interest. The recognition of these developments has led the Committee to see the need to strengthen the central coordination of sage policy. We believe that the best way to do this is to give the Polar Committee a stronger and more political position. Nor do we ignore the fact that the Polar Committee should be reorganised and given greater responsibility for the overall public activity of the island group. We expect the Government to come back with proposals on how best to achieve the intentions of the Committee's recognition. When the Stortinget discussed the management of the environment in Svalbard in the autumn of 1995, the Stortinget made clear that Svalbard should appear as one of the world’s best managed wilderness areas. Furthermore, the environmental aspect was underlined by the emphasis on environmental considerations in the event of conflict with other interests. The strong emphasis on the environment is still on the issue. The Committee has further reinforced this view by stressing the concept of goods as the guiding principle for the management of the area. To this end, all lots except the Right state that it is appropriate to avoid continuous natural interference that can break up consecutive wilderness areas. This opinion is directly linked to the position taken by a majority of the United Kingdom in 1995, namely that no road or power line should be built between Longyearbyen and Svea. This position is still attached to layers. In this setting, the Committee distanced itself from opening a new extract from Gruve 7. Consequently, there is neither the time nor the need to build a road in Boltedalen. Since the current nature reserves and national parks contain only a small proportion of biologically productive areas, the Energy and Environment Committee asked in 1995 that a protective plan be drawn up including a representative sample of such areas. This work is well done, and we are looking forward to promoting proposals for the protection of biologically productive areas for Stortinget. Until then, the Foreign Affairs Committee believes that the Government should consider introducing a moratorium on all interventions in the proposed protection areas in order to prevent future protection proposals from becoming illusory. Since the protection plan has not yet been submitted, a majority of the Committee has not wished to take a position on the protection of Reindalen, although the entire Committee is aware that Reindalen has a high level of protection. On the other hand, the protection of Bjørnøya is all prepared to be positive except for the Right Party and the Advance Party. An environmental law for Svalbard has been in place for a long time. It must be possible to interpret it as a little impatience on the part of the Committee when it says that it ‘hopes that the draft law will come to the Grand Duchy in such a near future that it will not be necessary to amend any of the existing regulations until the law is in place’. Indeed, there is a need for clarification, clarification and change in several areas relating to motorised traffic and other activities affecting management that nature. In general, there is talk of strengthening the general rules of care in relation to the natural environment and cultural memories. The Committee is particularly concerned with the acute pollution hazard posed by ship traffic. It flows of garbage and scrap in the waters around and along the shores of the archipelago, to hazards and nuisances for both animals and humans. The Committee explicitly asks that a system of waste control be considered for all ships within the territorial waters. The challenge for Svalbard’s business lies in establishing and maintaining Norwegian activities and activities, without preventing the preservation of Svalbard’s distinctive wilderness nature. At the same time, enforcement authorities must not lose sight of the Svalbard Treaty's requirement of non-discrimination. At the beginning of a new century, we are in a favourable situation that the business life of Svalbard has got more bones to stand on. The coal industry, which, through most of the last century, constituted the almost absolute and only cornerstone activity, has been complemented by research, education, tourism and a number of smaller service industries. Coal operations are now at a crossroads. The mines in Longyearbyen are exhausted, and the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kull company A/S is now running a test drive in Svea Nord to check whether there is a basis for permanent operation. In this setting, the Committee does not consider this question. What we're doing, on the other hand, is that we come up with some points of view both on the handling of the matter and on the future operation. The Committee is critical of the fact that the project has been carried out without the Stortinget, and barely the Government, being informed. This applies both to exceedances of exit ceilings and to the advance of investment frameworks and to the establishment of infrastructure. A bit of a joke, you can get the impression that SNSK practices the working method that makes it easier to get forgiveness than permission. Of course, this is not satisfactory for any of the parties, and I do not think it has been the intention of Great Norske either. In any case, the Committee expects the dialogue between Great Norwegian and the Government to improve in the future. I myself imagine that the Polar Committee can be useful when all aspects of mining are to be coordinated and taken care of. The surprise was great when I was able to read in the Svalbard post last week that a lot of wrecks had been unloaded in the city caia, and that these were going to be 80 huts and 20 apartments. The architects were already adapting them to the Elvesletta setup. During three days of consultations at Svalbard at the end of April, this large start-up had not come to the attention of the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In Elvesletta, an area where one has tried to create a pleasant and well-regulated living environment, it must be a bad idea to set up a village. As far as I understood the newspaper, it had already raised local voices against this location, so I guess the matter is well taken care of by the local democratic forces in Longyearbyen. I am more surprised, however, at the signal that Great Norwegian is giving. As far as I remember the debate on the future of mining was one of the strongest arguments for continuing mining that coal-mining jobs, more than other jobs, were guaranteed the stability and maintenance of the family structure in Longyearbyen. This has led me and others to a positive assessment of the continued coal operation on Svalbard. Building furniture for their new employees may indicate that Great Norwegian is in the process of weakening this important rationale for its operations. According to the latest plans I have seen for any permanent operation in Svea Nord, it is calculated a coal reserve in this instance for approx. 20 years of operation. Knowing modern technological possibilities, I think it's important to stress that there's no point in itself to supply the extraction beyond this. It is, of course, desirable that, once the investments have been made, operations should be balanced. But it's not a goal in itself to go with a lot of profit. Moreover, the volume take-off must be flexible enough to take sufficient account of the necessary environmental requirements. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need for an in-depth impact assessment before proposals for possible permanent operations in Svea Nord are promoted for Stortinget. With regard to the establishment of university studies at Svalbard, UNIS, the Committee has found reason to commend all those who have contributed to the success of UNIS. The Committee is aware that, in particular, the Riksrevision considered that it is not appropriate to maintain the constitution of UNIS. To that end, the Committee has said that we do not have strong views about any new organisation. But we underline the importance of ensuring that the committed cooperation that has existed between the four universities with regard to UNIS also needs to be continued in a new organisational model. As I said, the establishment of UNIS has been a success. We are also pleased with the professionalisation of the New Ålesund Research Station. Norway has invested heavily and well, and we have every reason to be satisfied with the effort. What remains is to allocate money to research, so that we can make better use of this infrastructure than we have done so far. But although much has been done, it is not difficult to see that the research and education environment at Svalbard is small and vulnerable. The Committee has therefore strongly supported the provision of a clear signal for the establishment of the Svalbard Research Park to allow for the co-location of all the academic environments in Longyearbyen, Svalbard Museum, a magazine for archaeological and art history material and an information centre on the nature and environment of Svalbard. The single proposal that has been most widely mentioned in this Communication is the proposal to introduce local democracy in Longyearbyen. Already in 1995 the representatives Gunnar Skaug and William Engseth presented a document No. Eight proposals, which they ask for the matter to be examined and promoted. Later, the Labour Party, in close cooperation with the Svalbard Workers' Party, has made a full investigation of the same issues. Similar work has also been done in other parties. The Svalbard Council has also committed itself well and actively in the matter. When the case is therefore dealt with today, it is over-mature. Some nuances arise, but in my opinion, Stortinget has dealt with the matter in such a way that the result should be practical for all those affected by it. For us, there is not a question of whether local democracy should be introduced, but how extensive this should be and at what pace it should be implemented. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Longyearbyen and Longyearbyen communities on a new and democratic step forward. Other questions will be taken care of. In addition to that, I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e157	Svalbard is a special area both climatic and legal. All this time our sovereignty over Svalbard, among others. It is important that we enforce sovereignty in a way that does not violate it. In this context, it is natural for a person to continue the practice of laws to go through an additional round before they are applied to Svalbard, thus creating an additional quality control. It is important to make it clear that restrictions on sovereignty must have a clear and unambiguous basis in the Treaty. If this is not the case, conditions fall under Norwegian sovereignty. The fact that Norway has sovereignty over Svalbard is not disputed by anyone. This, of course, simplifies the exercise of sovereignty. Nevertheless, a comprehensive and consistent enforcement of sovereignty is important. In this way, one will also prevent future questions about Norway’s sovereignty and rights over Svalbard. The Progress Party shares the view that stable settlement on Svalbard is a good and effective way to enforce our sovereignty. The presence of Norwegian citizens has increased and stabilised over time. Thus, it is a full-year and effective presence. The coal industry was a prior basis for the annual presence. Although Svalbard now has a more varied business life, mining still plays a very central role. It is also important for the identity of the Svalbard community. The Progress Party considers it important that business-economic profitability should govern the development of mining operations, in order to ensure the best, efficient and sound operation possible. Nevertheless, it is important to have Svalbard's special situation in mind. This requires some flexibility in understanding the profitability requirement. In this case, we have to open up to a greater degree of overall assessment than a normal one in relation to business in general. The special environment, location and availability of svalbard provide a unique opportunity for a good and stable research environment of international quality. Such a presence of international researchers and students under Norwegian leadership will further strengthen Norway’s sovereignty over other nations. At the same time, other Norwegian research and education institutions will be able to have positive effects from such a presence. This applies not only to direct cooperation and participation in research at Svalbard, but also to the fact that Norway has an environment of high international recognition. As I said, a stable settlement is important for a good and effective enforcement of sovereignty. Nevertheless, it is not a matter of simply adding that Svalbard should be a life-cycle society. Today's settlement is based on a belonging to work or assignment. This results in a settlement that has a composition where there is no need for a fully-fledged welfare society with care for the elderly, graveyards and the like. If Svalbard were to develop into a life-cycle society, there would also be problems of connectivity in several other areas. The contact and affiliation with mainland Norway is something you want to maintain. It will be difficult to avoid Svalbard developing into a life-cycle society, since the owners living in their dwellings would expect and require conditions to be set up to allow one to live in their dwellings without such restrictions. The more homes without restrictions, the greater the possibility of developing a settlement that adds its entire life cycle to Svalbard. In a society like Longyearbyen, where primary health services and hospitals are so integrated into each other, there's no point in splitting them into multiple units. A comprehensive view of healthcare will also be a good one for patients. The Progress Party sees a clear need for a nursing position in the New Year’sund, because the activity and extent of human presence have reached an extent that requires a minimum level of healthcare available. The geographical and climatic conditions mean that one cannot guarantee a rapid and effective transfer to Longyearbyen. In such a situation, a fixed position of nurse can be of decisive help. One sees the need for the job to be linked to the hospital in Longyearbyen, because one can then have a more flexible use of the job home. At the same time, it is important to ensure the professional development of individuals. So finally, with regard to the introduction of local democracy on Svalbard, it is important to safeguard the special conditions of Svalbard — including the legal basis. In the same way as a display of prudence and vigilance in the case of laws applicable to Svalbard, one must show the same when introducing partial local government. Svalbard is not, shall not and may not become an ordinary Norwegian municipality. Therefore, it is important not to rush into anything without having a full overview of the overall impact on Svalbard and on the enforcement of Norway’s sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e178	The position of Svalbard is unique in many ways, based on historical, international, political and environmental criteria. The unique Arctic nature of Svalbard, with its unique biotopes and its strategic location in the northern region, sets specific requirements for the design of laws and administrative rules. The full and unrestricted sovereignty of Norway on Svalbard is enshrined in the Svalbard Treaty and has been upheld for 80 years. The role of Norway in this context remains unchanged, although the challenges facing management have naturally changed over time. There is, of course, a significant strength in the current state of play, that there is consensus on all the essential issues relating to the exercise of Norwegian sovereignty on Svalbard and the main administrative issues. I refer in this way to the statements made by the rapporteur and join in the main lines of her assessments and conclusions. St.meld. No 9 was presented by the government of Bondevik, but followed by the present government. The majority of the government's views are largely echoed by the majority of the government's views. The Communication describes the main challenges facing Norwegian swallowing policy today. Firstly, the challenges associated with the political situation, with stability objectives in Svalbard and in the other north. Secondly, it is a major task to strengthen the protection of the island's unique natural and cultural heritage. Thirdly, challenges lie in ensuring stable housing and good social development in Svalbard. New in this setting are the concrete proposals related to the introduction of major popular local government on Svalbard. In previous discussions, the Stortinget has expressed such a desire to find a governance model for the Longyearbyen that could give the population greater democratic influence in the community, in line with the developments we have seen in the mainland. But with the special administrative rules and laws applicable to Svalbard, this has posed special challenges. The Bondevik Government made concrete proposals to put more management tasks under a local responsibility and proposed to do in this context to transform the Svalbard Council into the Longyearbyen local government, a elected body that will be primarily responsible for tasks that are local authorities on the mainland. An overall committee is in the setting behind such an assessment. The background for this is a fundamental view that any Norwegian society should be governed by a elected body. So the further discussion is not about whether to introduce a stronger local democracy on Svalbard, but rather about to what extent, and how quickly, this local government should take shape. Both foreign policy considerations, environmental objectives and the concern of the local population mean that the framework needs to be adapted to the specific needs of the island group and not just adopted from the model in a mainland municipality. As far as school is concerned, it is currently state-owned and has both primary and secondary education as a whole in one unit. For practical and economic reasons, it is appropriate that this unit be maintained, with joint administration for the entire school activity. The Christian People's Party has noted the scepticism of the Svalbard Council and the various political parties against taking local responsibility for the school, in relation to the way the school works today, which is very good. However, we have come to the conclusion, together with the other parties, that it is important that a local government is given the responsibility for such an important institution in the community as the school is. If local government is to have a good opinion, it must also be given tasks that are committed to the community. The school is such a task. The assumption is that the school is free to maintain the co-location of schools, and that the whole growing-up sector is given time and opportunity to adapt to this transition. The Committee therefore proposes that responsibility for schools be transferred to Longyearbyen local government only at the turn of the year 2005-2006. The Christian People's Party has also noticed that both the Svalbard Church Council and the Svalbard Council in connection with this message have expressed themselves clearly skeptical, not to say negative, to add Svalbard Church under the Longyearbyen local government. This is probably related to the way the church works on Svalbard today. It's much more than a normal community, as we know it in the mainland. Svalbard Church is a church center for the whole island group, also for Christians outside the state church. It also represents a cultural centre and meeting place for people on Svalbard, residents over the short and long term as well as travellers. Svalbard Church is today a state-owned whole that has its function and impact field all over the island. The work is carried out by a dense working community of three employees, who together carry out tasks and complement each other. The restructuring and adaptation of the Church of Svalbard to the Norwegian Church Act will involve unnecessary red tape that will initially require more resources than is available to the Church today. In addition, unnatural distinctions will be made between employees by linking them with different employers and working conditions. These assessments form the basis for the particular attention of the Christian People's Party on this issue. I also want to add that Svalbard Church, in addition to ordinary church chores, has a major role in the community that is not readily comparable to a continental congregation. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that continuing direct links with the Ministry of Church, Education and Research will give the Church of Svalbard the best space for action and the greatest flexibility to continue to play its important role. The environmental objectives of Svalbard are very high. In 1995, the size decided that Svalbard should be one of the world’s most well-managed wilderness areas, and that the Svalbard Treaty should focus on the environment when it conflicts with other interests. In the Communication, the Government has notified a proposal for an environmental law for Svalbard. The Christian People's Party welcomes this. At the same time, we would stress that this proposal must come in such a near future that, in the meantime, the Storting will not change any of today's regulations. In particular, it is the extensive use of snowmobiles over large parts of Svalbard that worry, and in our view requires a tighter code. A new environmental law will be an important instrument for limiting and regulating the future motor travel of the archipelago. It will be necessary to reduce both the volume of the movement and the size of the vehicles in order to ensure that the environment is not harmful. An overall committee states that the implementation of the product concept must be the guiding principle for the management of the site. This is one of the areas in which this principle needs to be put into practice. Let me also mention that in the Christian People's Party we are still opponents of building roads and power lines between Longyearbyen and Svea. The construction will in itself, in our opinion, be contrary to the objective of preserving the wilderness nature of Svalbard. In addition, such infrastructure could increase the pressure for further activities in the area at the expense of the vulnerable environment. Here, then, consideration of the environment must be given to economic activity. When the Committee expresses its satisfaction with the permission granted by the authorities for the activities of Great Norske Spitsbergen Kullkompani in Svea Nord, this is conditional on the project not depending on either the power line or the Longyearbyen route. Longyearbyen has evolved into a well-functioning community with good services. This is an important part of the exercise of Norwegian swallowing policy. It is interesting and positive that the nutrient base, as a prerequisite for Norwegian settlement, has gained several legs to stand on. The increased tourist traffic on the island group is initially positive — it is a very special experience to be in the special Arctic nature. But the extent and arrangement of the tourist flow to Svalbard must, of course, align themselves with the very special considerations of the vulnerable Arctic nature one has to take. Research and education activities have also been a positive element, both in terms of research and in relation to a larger and wider industrial base in the population. Overall, the Communication provides a solid basis for good Norwegian management of Svalbard in relation to international law, the environment and the desire to maintain a stable settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e206	It's been 14 years since the Stortinget last addressed a complete message about Svalbard. It has been both exciting and interesting to participate in the process under which the Committee is set up. There is reason to give tribute to the rapporteur for the way in which she has managed the Committee's work and for the willingness she has shown to contribute to the convergence of solutions. As a result, further management of Svalbard can continue to take place with broad disintegration from the Storting, as has been stressed by various governments over the years. It's in our everybody's interest. I would also like – as the rapporteur did – to take advantage of the opportunity to give tribute to the Svalbard Council and various representatives of the community in Longyearbyen for the valuable input we have received during the vote. For the Right part, let me also mention the close contact to Svalbard Right. It has made valuable contributions to the conclusions drawn by the Right, not least in connection with the continuation of the local democracy process. I will not spend time repeating what there is broad political agreement on the challenges and obligations Norway has taken on through the exercise of sovereignty based on the Svalbard Treaty, which entered into force in 1925. In this way, I refer you to the statements made by the rapporteur. It is important to have a common understanding of the limitations on Norwegian exercise of powers imposed by the Svalbard Treaty. This means that the archipelago can never be fully treated as or become a continental municipality. However, I would like to stress that maintaining Norwegian residence of a certain size is an important instrument in our sovereignty exercise, and that business, resource use, research and education can take place within the framework set by the conservation of Svalbard's natural environment and cultural memories. I would like to focus in my article on some of the areas in which the Committee has a somewhat different view than that underlying the communication, and in particular mention some of the specific comments of the Right. The first concerns Svalbard’s legislation, which is based today on the fact that Norwegian legislation, other than private law, criminal law and justice, does not apply without specific decisions being taken. I understand the objections to this which have been raised, in particular, by local elected representatives of the Svalbard Council. They find it unsatisfactory to have to deal with ministerial rules and regulations that are often applied long after legal decisions have entered into force on the mainland. This can easily become a sleeping pad for bureaucracy, and that is the background to a wish of an overall committee to assess the reversal of this legislative practice. The right will also ask the Government to consider the possibility of giving Longyearbyen local government – as the Svalbard Council will hereinafter call – access to matters relating to their responsibilities in the meetings of the Polar Committee. On the right, the unfortunate mix of research and management that takes place through the fact that the Norwegian Polar Institute is also the primary adviser for the Sysselmann and is represented in the Polar Committee. We have also warned against this in the past and believe that the Government should change this practice. I refer in this way to our remark in the setting. Although Svalbard is part of the Kingdom of Norway, at Norwegian request, the island group is exempted from the EEA Agreement. However, there should be no obstacle to goods processed or produced on Svalbard being sold free of customs duties in Norway. In this connection, I refer you to a request from Barents Textile AS, where it appears that the textile production is burdened with 16-18 pst. customs duties on sales to the mainland. This seems obviously unreasonable, and it is therefore an overall committee that asks the Government to find solutions that provide exemption from customs duties. There is a broad consensus in the Committee on the conservation of Svalbard’s unique wilderness nature. There will be restrictions on all activities on the island group, so that environmental considerations in the event of conflict with other interests will weigh more heavily. On the right, however, we find it wrong that the Storting should now prejudge the treatment of its own Environmental Protection Act for Svalbard before the Government has promoted its proposal for the Storting. That's the background that we don't now want to have any bastant perceptions about protecting the Reindalen or questions about road through the Reindalen from Svea to Longyearbyen. We want to review the legislative proposal and proposals for a comprehensive protection plan when available from the Government in a short time. And we find it a bit striking that other parties will already announce positions before the investigations are available. In a short time, the final results of drilling will also be available in Svea Nord. And it's not to hide that there's a lot of tension and interest in the question of continued coal mining in Great Norwegian. It was precisely mining that provided the basis for the Norwegian settlement in Longyearbyen, and it will continue to be an important contribution to maintaining the main objective of a Norwegian settlement on Svalbard, in the view of Højre. Profitability and volume take-offs per years here will be key questions and could be decisive for the outcome of the case. During the last decade, research and education have become one of the most important activities in Svalbard. If Norway has slowed down in research efforts in other OECD contexts, we have been successful in polar and squalid research in the world, and this should continue to be the case. There is no doubt that the University Studies at Svalbard – UNIS – organized with the four continental universities that committed founders have been a success. And the plans to build a research park in connection with UNIS are exciting. I hope, therefore, that the Government has noticed that there is a unanimous committee recommending that the plans for a building be moved forward quickly, which co-locates all the academic environments in Longyearbyen, the Svalbard Museum, a magazine for archaeological and cultural historical material and a possible information centre on Svalbard's nature and environment. I would also like to add some comments to the wider local democracy process. Because it is in many ways a little surprising that the committee has taken on the driving role that one should expect the majority of the Svalbard Council to be in. It's not like that. There has been a local dispute about the Government’s proposal for the name and scope of the local elected body. However, the Committee, after an overall assessment, has chosen to support the Government’s view, so that the jurisdiction of the Longyearbyen local government is to cover the Longyearbyen spatial planning area. On the other hand, the Committee considers that the term of office should be four years as in the mainland, but with the possibility of supplementary elections after two years if necessary. Furthermore, the Committee considers that all voting rights in local elections should also be available to the local board. An organisational change that will make the Svalbard post an independent localisation could also be an important contribution to the Svalbard local democracy process. The local community in Longyearbyen will meet exciting times when the processes are now going to start with the transfer of responsibilities and responsibilities in the community from the Employment and Local Government to the local government. The fact that the majority of the Svalbard Council has so far not been the most keen proponents in this process can be a confirmation of the good work the Employment and Staff do also in the community of Longyearbyen. In this case, there is a very good starting point for continued good cooperation on local issues between the local population, the local population's elected trustees and the Employment Manager.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e242	The Svalbard Treaty of 9 February 1920, which gives Norway ‘the full and unrestricted sovereignty’ over Svalbard, also imposes an obligation on our country to manage the unique archipelago. At the same time, the right to exercise powers implies an obligation to enforce sovereignty within the framework set by the Treaty and in line with the objectives of Norwegian swallowing policy, as expressed in the St.melding. No 40 for 1985-86. The exercise of sovereignty on Svalbard is politically important. A proper Norwegian administration over time creates moral rights and contributes to the consolidation of sovereignty by international law. After 80 years of authority, Norway’s sovereignty over Svalbard stands strongly, from a international point of view. Some Icelandic politicians have raised doubts about Norway’s right to set up a 200-mile fishing zone around Svalbard. However, the fact that the non-discriminatory fishing protection zone is being observed internationally means that it is internationally accepted that Norway has the right to exercise the fishing jurisdiction established in the law of the sea. The enforcement of Norwegian sovereignty is an overall consideration in the case of Norwegian swallowing policy. This implies that both industrial activities, widespread use of resources and housing strategy must be designed with the exercise of Norwegian sovereignty as a goal. The position of the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Svaldbard Communication shows that there is broad political consensus on the main lines of Norwegian svalbard policy. It is itself an important prerequisite for a credible and consistent exercise of sovereignty. The particular features of the setting are not such as to give rise to strong party political markers in today's debate. It is therefore far more important to stress that an overall committee is behind the main challenges facing Norwegian Svalbard policy today, namely: maintaining calm and stability in Svalbard and in the northern regions in general to protect the unique natural and cultural heritage of the island group to ensure the development of society in Svalbard that can ensure a stable settlement on the island. The further development of Svalbard’s business will be an important prerequisite for such development. The peculiar wilderness nature of Svalbard is vulnerable. Therefore, protection of the environment and resources on the island group may be the most important management task for Norway. In the Stortinget setting for the environmental management at Svalbard – Innst. S. No 11 for 1995–96 — there were leaders who still have to stand by. The Norwegian authorities have set the target of Svalbard as one of the world’s best managed wilderness areas. Such an ambitious objective obligates. This includes, inter alia: that, in the event of conflicts of interest with other interests, the vulnerability of the environment must be given priority. The unanimous agreement of the Committee with this Tab paragraph may be the most important conclusion in its entirety. And should follow the precautionary principle and ensure sustainable development, inter alia. commercial and commercial considerations in the event of a threat to the vulnerable wilderness nature. The Committee has specifically referred to Reindalen as a safeguard area, although no final conclusion is reached on the protection of Reindalen. Moreover, the size will have the opportunity to discuss the Svalbard protection policy as a matter of its own when a separate Svalbard protection plan is presented in a short time. A central but at the same time somewhat controversial question is the proposed route and the power line between Longyearbyen and Svea. The one in the option that calls for the most attention is related to these two projects. The majority — all lots except the Party of Advances and the Right — refers to the opinion of these batches in that position, where it is noted that such development plans would be ‘harmful to the environment’ and clearly contrary to the objective of preserving the wilderness nature of Svalbard. Since it has been established that Project Svea-Nord does not depend on road and powerline, it is difficult to understand that the two right parties want to distance themselves from the clear signals that Stortinget gave five years ago. The economic development of Svalbard has been positive in recent years. A more varied and diverse business environment makes it easier to combine economic activity with protection of the natural environment. This is particularly the case in Longyearbyen, but also in New Zealand, where there has been an effort to build an international research environment, the authorities have shown that business, activity and housing can be created without challenging the strict environmental requirements we have to impose on Svalbard. Norwegian research activities are also a new and important instrument, both to consolidate Norway’s polar interests, to meet our environmental obligations and to enforce Norwegian sovereignty. The question of the permanent operation of Svea Nord poses challenges for Norwegian authorities. Here one will face a classic dilemma when weighing into account the importance of business — among other things. as part of the exercise of sovereignty — against the interests of protection. The Committee does not now consider the issue of permanent operations in Svea Nord. This difficult question shall be decided ‘on and when’ by the Ministry promotes the case for Stortinget. However, the majority have found it necessary to clarify that one in the assessment of coal operations at Svalbard cannot unilaterally emphasise the purely business-economic considerations, but that the operation must be seen as an important instrument in a more comprehensive Norwegian svalbard policy. The introduction of local democracy at Svalbard is a new and exciting challenge, primarily for those living in Longyearbyen. The matter has been discussed, also at Svalbard. It would be wise if one of these didn't go too fast. It may be useful to gain some experience before fully implementing such a reform in accordance with the principles of the mainland. This includes, among other things: the context in which local democracy in Svalbard must be developed within frameworks which both take foreign policy into account and meet the specific needs of the country as regards the high environmental requirements set for Svalbard. The Committee agrees that a public-elected body, the Longyearbyen local government, should be set up, mainly – but mainly – to carry out the same tasks as the municipalities in the mainland. There has been some uncertainty and some disagreement at local level about whether primary and secondary education should be transferred to Longyearbyen local government. The Committee is in favour of the local government taking responsibility for the school at the turn of the year 2005-2006. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee is in principle of the opinion that the church should also be transferred to the local, elected administration. For the time being, this majority, which also includes the Centre Party, only asks the Ministry to consider this, precisely because the church is to meet the needs of the entire archipelago.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e280	Svalbard society is a vibrant society. It has a varied population, a growing environment in research and education, increasing tourism, a variety of cultural and leisure activities, a varied business and, in particular, enthusiastic residents who want to increase influence and responsibility. When we now deal with the whole of the swallowing policy, it is therefore a positive starting point. Nevertheless, life and society challenges in the tough climate are clumsy up to the North Pole. There has to be a good balance between creating stability on the one hand, and, on the other hand, not creating a normal life-cycle society where people beat too deep roots. It is also a challenge to strike a good balance between adequate economic activity and the consideration of the vulnerable environment — the consideration of Svalbard as part of the Kingdom of Norway on the one hand, while at the same time respecting the international Svalbard Treaty. SV supports the introduction of increased local democracy in Longyearbyen. However, it makes sense, as the setting indicates, that one should have a gradual transition to local government and that local government should not include major geographical areas. The employee wants and still has to play an important role in Svalbard. Research development is very interesting and positive. The port areas of Svalbard are an important region for the exchange of heat between the atmosphere and the sea. With Svalbard as the base, research takes place such as will have an impact on the understanding of global climate change. There is every reason to believe that this research will gain increasing importance and attention in the coming years. It is a cross-thinking that Svalbard is both a good starting point for studying climate change and an area for coal production, which is an important source of greenhouse gas emissions and thus contributes to causing climate change. It can be argued that relatively small quantities of coal are produced, and it is also argued that the swallowbard coal is particularly pure coal. However, it is not possible to avoid that the use of coal as an energy source contributes much to greenhouse gas emissions internationally. The crossroads in coal production is also growing significantly when we have just been through a debate on gas power, where one of the core arguments has been that Norway needs to exploit the pure natural gas we have in order to help other countries to slow down the use of coal. Subsidised sulphide coal thus enters the northern European energy market in competition with Norwegian gas. It must then be clear to everyone that Norway, as a coal producer, is meeting itself in the door with a crash. SV has requested that the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld No. 9 shall take a principal position for future coal operations on Svalbard. We believe that this is a natural part of a comprehensive review of the swallowing policy. SV is in favour of the closure and replacement of Norwegian coal operations by other industrial activities. We believe that there should be a plan for closure and transition to other activities. However, we will accept the extraction of coal to Svalbard's own needs. It is both local and international environmental considerations that make it desirable to phase out coal operations, from the SV's point of view. Coal yields approx. twice as much CO2 emissions per unit as gas. Even with a strong escalation, as the Great Norwegian would suggest, there is not much coal Norway will contribute to the international coal market, but it gives a completely wrong signal to Norway as an energy nation to invest even more in fossil fuels. It's hard to see how we'll ever be able to meet our international greenhouse gas reduction obligations if we're not going to have any inhibitions either in terms of gas or coal. In the long term, there will also be growing conflicts between coal production and local environmental considerations. Large Norwegian states that the next large coal field that can be opened is in the middle of Reindalen. Some samples have already been taken, and test runs will have to be started within a few years if they are not to stop operation when Svea Nord is completed, if necessary. Great Norwegian has shown an impressive will and ability to convert to profitable operations. However, as long as the operation becomes profitable and one does not earn the investment, there are also no economic arguments for the continued operation of the coal industry. The svalbard community is based on coal operations. The coal industry has set deep cultural and social tracks. Of course, for today's residents it is difficult to imagine a Svalbard without mining. But there's no basis for claiming that society is falling by the use of coal. An equal number of jobs have already been created in other activities, both as a result of the emergence of other activities and as a result of the automation of mining. Both research activity and tourism have great potential for further development and growth. Nor will this be without environmental impact, but this activity will be easier to regulate. Mining must, as you know, be operated right where the coal deposits are. The size will have several occasions in the near future to address the issue of further coal mining and environmental protection at Svalbard. When SV already wants to take a stand for coal operation, it is because we see that the new profitability requirements have started a dynamic that has given a faster escalation of mining than previously foreseen. We believe it is important for the Storting to put leadership ahead of development. That is why we are now saying that we want the Norwegian coal operation to be phased out in the long term. We're already saying that we want the protection of Reindalen. These questions are related as mentioned. Satellite images show that no other lowland areas on Svalbard have as continuous lush vegetation over as large areas as the Reindalen. The Reindalen is also the largest and most widely known of the ice-free valleys on the Central-Spitsbergen. The outlet of Reindalselva together with other rivers forms a large wetlands and delta area with a rare nature and a rich bird life. In addition, the Reindalen with side valleys is an important grazing and calving area for pure. As a landscape, Reindalen is both representative of the great valleys of the Central Svalbard and unique in terms of its dimensions and luxuries. The Reindalen also has a number of geological deposits of special protection value. In the same way as in the case of climate change, a long-term perspective on nature protection is necessary. But the long term is not that we can take time to see if there is a need for change or regulation. On the contrary, it may mean that we need to act quickly to stop an unfortunate development. SV believes that with the speed of mining on Svalbard, it is also important for the Storting to set the necessary limits for this business. SV is pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee has established a number of important principles that give the right leadership to a good environmental policy on Svalbard. This concerns the principle that environmental considerations should be given priority if there is a conflict between environmental considerations and other interests, in terms of leading commodity thinking as a guiding principle for the management of Svalbard, and the objective of maintaining the scope of coherent wilderness areas. As far as the last point is concerned, it is an advantage that the majority has also stated clearly that there is no point in road or power line between Longyearbyen and Svea. In the SV's view, it is not coal deposits, but the large, untouched wilderness areas that are Svalbard's main values at a time when wilderness disappears in many parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06.ana.ud380e318	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. This morning's meeting is now being cancelled, and the discussion of case No. 1 on the map of the day will continue when the meeting will be set again at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
