ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e69	The representative of Ingvald Godal, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e89	At the request of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to 3 lines with replies from members of the Government. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e98	The representatives of Storting Marit Nybakk, Ane Sofie Tömrås, Astrid Marie Nistad and the current representative of Storing Karita Bekkemelm Orheim present a Document No.8 proposal to ask the Government to submit measures against coerciveness. In recent years, there has been more focus on forced marriage and arranged marriage in Norway. We have known that some young Norwegian women with a foreign family background live in fear of being forced by the family to marry. Some of these girls with a minority background get married by coercion with men from their parents' original homeland. How many of these things apply, we don't know, but several things indicate that this problem is greater than what we've been aware of. In order to avoid a debate on inequality between marriages and arranged marriages, the Committee has defined forced marriages in the setting as follows: «By coercion, when an individual is married away against his will or with undue pressure, physical, mental or cultural." In some cases it may be difficult to distinguish between arranged marriage and coercion, but it is important to stress that all forms of pressure are unacceptable, a marriage must be voluntary from both parties. Document No The 8th proposal refers to the Action Plan against Forced Marriage, presented by the Centre Government in December 1998, which had two main objectives: to prevent young people from being subjected to forced marriages to provide help and support to those young people who are or have been subjected to forced marriage; Proposals seek a stronger concrete approach to action. They think that the Storting should deal with questions about coercion, and suggest a number of measures that you should pay attention to. The Committee points out that several of these measures are already included in the Action Plan against Forced Marriage. The Ministry of Education and the Family prepared the action plan in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education, Education and Research, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Directorate of Foreign Affairs. The Committee has noted that the action plan is valid for three years in the future and covers almost 40 different actions carried out in several departments and that work on implementation started early in 1999. It is important that one in these cases has good cooperation across departments. A letter from the former Minister for Children and Family, attached to the setting, did some good for the work done to prevent forced marriage after the action plan was presented. In addition, because the problem of forced marriage had greater dimensions than one was aware of, a working group in the autumn of 1999 went through the actions of the Action Plan against Forced Marriage. This resulted in the document ‘Acts against Forced Marriage in Spring 2000’. This is also attached to the setting. Many measures have been taken and some are being developed. A contact telephone has been established for advice and guidance on forced marriage, with the aim of preventing abuse and preventing conflicts by disseminating knowledge about Norwegian legislation and women’s rights. It's created a Bucollective where immigrant women who break out of their marriages will get help. The Committee agrees that a person must be forced into the school agenda, both at the elementary level, at the level of the youth school and at the secondary level and in the course of the vaccination course. We are aware that some information material directed towards this is under work, and that something has already been used. The Committee has, in its configuration, underlined the value of cooperation with voluntary organisations which have wide scope for helping young people who are threatened or subjected to forced marriage. The human rights action plan also provides for measures against forced marriage, including: support for the launch of a contact and information centre in Pakistan for women associated with Norway. After the change of government, the Committee sent questions to the new Minister for Child and Family Affairs as to whether the Government had plans to implement measures against forced marriage other than those outlined in the Action Plan against Forced Marriage and in Action against Forced Marriage in spring 2000. In response to the Committee, the Minister for Children and Family Affairs replied that the Government was well in implementing the Action Plan against Forced Marriage and Action against Forced Marriage in the spring of 2000, and that an ongoing review of new measures would take place. But according to the government's response, the government had no plans for new measures now. The plurality of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, suggests that the two documents referred to by the central government provide a good basis for the prevention of forced marriage, and that the Government must continue to assess the need for further action. The party of progress has some own comments and suggestions in the vote; otherwise, the Committee will be consulted in order to insert Document No. 8:12 to the Minutes. So some words on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Someone has tried to present what the Christian People's Party has no commitment to this matter – it's customs wig! The Christian People's Party has a strong commitment to the work against coercion. The work done in the two central government documents shows a systematic work by the centre party to get involved in measures to prevent forced marriage. No one in Norway defends coercion, but it does. No one should be forced to marry against their will. This is enshrined in Norwegian legislation and international conventions. Behaviour contrary to Norwegian laws cannot be accepted by showing respect for other cultures. It is important that we do not generalise the phenomenon of coercive marriage to all girls with minority backgrounds. Subject to marriage law, a person who is forced to marry may be invalidated in accordance with legal proceedings before the courts. In the event of annulment of a marriage, the basis for a renunciation on the basis of marriage falls simultaneously. The person who, after bringing an action, has been found guilty of marriage due to unlawful coercion at the time of conclusion will need to be able to stay in Norway as a starting point. The central government proposed new rules for further suspension in Norway in case of an action for annulment. Message about changes has been sent to the listener. The family reunification rules are given to ensure a family life based on free will. There is already a provision for some immigrants to participate in different introduction programs. This should be pursued further, and it is particularly important to provide information on the basic rights of individuals to live in Norwegian society. Immigrant organisations and others should be given the opportunity to participate in specific arrangements. The central government has been committed to making participation in such courses/programmes a condition for the renewal of residence permits based on marriage. This was also sent to the hearing. The previous government assessed changes in foreign law to fight against forced marriage. I am also open to that, and I argued that we would get a case back to Stortingen about this. We have noted positively the fact that the Labour Party is well-informed in implementing the measures against coerciveness that the central government has developed and presented in two documents, even though they strongly criticised the action plan when he arrived. This shows that the centre party has laid a good political foundation here as well. Finally, when it comes to the Progress Party's proposals in the setting, I would recommend that the Progress Party convert them to a forwarding proposal. Some of the proposals are already taken care of, some should be dealt with more, and some of them would be foolish to vote down. That is why I want to encourage the Progress Party's spokesperson to convert them into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e150	At regular intervals in recent years, it has been demonstrated that Norwegian girls with a minority background have been and are still being married by coercion, often to men from their original country of origin. This form of marriage marriage has become known as coercion. In its observations, the Committee has defined forced marriage as follows: «By coercion, when an individual is married away against his will or with undue pressure, physical, mental or cultural." The right to choose their own spouse is enshrined in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, which is also incorporated into Norwegian legislation. It must be categorically stated that women are entitled to the same legal protection and the same rights as men. It is absolutely unacceptable that religion or culture should be used as a basis for the repression of women. If girls with a minority background were to be treated differently from girls with a Norwegian background, it would be discriminatory and therefore unacceptable. Statistics have been compiled by the Central Bureau showing alarming trends in marriage among Muslim girls from Pakistan, Morocco and Turkey. The number material shows, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the Of girls born in Norway by Pakistani parents married 85 pst. of whom with men residing in Pakistan. No girls born in Norway by Pakistani, Moroccan or Turkish parents have married Norwegians in the last three years. This may indicate that detoxification may be related to immigration and that young girls are used to provide other stays in Norway. I emphasize that the numbers indicate that this may be the case, but if it is, it is of course very serious. The majority has had the question of coercive charges for treatment in the past. In the autumn of 1997, the Stortinget asked the Government to present an action plan against coerciveness. This action plan was presented in December 1998 and had two main objectives: to prevent young people from being subjected to forced marriage, and to provide better support and assistance to those who were under pressure in choosing their spouse. The action plan thus indicated that work had to be preventive. Some will probably claim that this is not good enough and will require legal changes, but Section 222 of the Penal Code states that forced marriage is illegal, and we have provisions in the Children's Act that state that children should have the opportunity to express themselves on personal matters from the age of 12. The law is in place, but we get reports that young girls are being married. I am convinced that the only dangerous way to achieve what we all want is to enter into a constructive dialogue with those groups where this has been identified as a problem. I also think it is appropriate to stress that there is no one, nor among the immigrant organisations, who goes out and defends forced marriage. All conditions should therefore be in place to put an end to these abuses against young women. I think it is appropriate to remember that only a generation ago it was not uncommon to ‘marry’ in Norway. The situation was that a young girl got pregnant, and society around, parents and friends, expected responsibility by getting married. So it's not more than 30 years since we had social structures in this country that put pressure on young people when it comes to choosing a spouse. Nor does it have much imagination to imagine that some people felt this social pressure as a form of coercion. I think it is right to keep this in mind when we are discussing today measures against coercion – not as a defense of what everyone is against, but as a reminder that even here in the country, we have had informal structures that many have experienced as difficult. I would like to point out that in my view, the main reason why young people today can choose is the fact that we have built a society with a safety net that means that you no longer have to ‘marry’. I want this society to be a part of our new countrymen too. We do not achieve that with new laws. What is needed are clear attitudes, attitudes that underline the individual’s right to choose the person you want to share life with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e186	The debate on coerciveness emerged seriously in the wake of the alarming ‘State of the Kingdom’ programme in TV2 last autumn. ‘Responsive’ was used by politicians from all the other parties. But for the Progress Party, this was neither new nor surprising. We have made proposals on this already on 12 June 1997, for those who have followed in the development of parts of the immigrant environment have seen it coming, and some have actually tried to warn against it in the past. Young women, or almost girls, born and raised in Norway in 16-, 17-, 18- and 19-year-olds who are Norwegian citizens, are compulsorily compulsorily married to fatteners or others from their home country who are family-determined. In particular, it has been documented from Pakistan, from a place called Little Norway, because the population has moved to Norway. This has produced strong reactions. But so far it seems that only the Progress Party has wanted to do something about this and has made proposals to counteract and prevent this obscenity. It also applies to young men who, from a very early age, are clearly told that they are going to marry the one their parents decide. This is an unculture, or a culture that we in Norway must take a great distance from, and that the Progress Party has warned against for many years. This is part of the so-called colorful community all on the left-hand side of Norwegian politics is so proud of and has clarified the importance of. The Progress Party has made the following proposals: ‘The budget asks the Government to work actively to counter forcible marriages, inter alia, by introducing requirements on dependability and sound housing as conditions for granting residence permits and residence permits in Norway for foreign spouses.’ This means that in the case of a young girl in Norway, she must be able to dispose of her own home adequately for a married couple, and she must have work income to support her spouse. In the vast majority of cases, these young women or girls do not have the opportunity to do so, as they still live at home with their parents. So they live at home with their parents, and it's before they get into an income situation that the forced marriage is carried out. We know – at least we can be relatively sure – that the main purpose is to really help a male person to obtain a residence, residence and work permit in Norway. Where marriage cannot be carried out before the woman disposes of the owner-occupancy and has labour income, the whole main reason for the forced marriage is gone. Then the foreign spouse will not be granted residence and residence permits in Norway, and it is no longer the entrance ticket to bypass the stoppage of immigration for healthy, working people, among others. ‘Little Norway’. It actually puts an end to the possibility that, in particular, fathers can sell their daughter in a way so that another person is allowed to enter Norway and thus have the opportunity to live and work in order to return money to his home country. This was a very well-worked proposal, which was against the votes of the Progress Party and some votes from the Right. We also made the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to put in place a control system in order to clarify that it is not an illegal periodicity when applying for a residence permit and visa for a foreign spouse and, if necessary, to provide a good legal basis for refusing visas and residence permits for foreign spouses in the event of forced marriage.’ This is mainly a scheme that has been practised in Denmark for almost two years with relatively good results. Where a foreigner is applying for a residence, residence and visa because he has married a Danish citizen — in our case a Norwegian citizenship — a good deal of questions are asked, where, of course, it is revealed that those people who have married have not known each other for a long time. By going into exactly this, it can be found that they may not have met before they entered the marriage. This is done in Denmark. In the case of coercion, these have fallen radically in Denmark since the introduction of the control procedures. Forced marriage is illegal under Norwegian law, says everyone. Both of these proposals would have helped to reduce the possibility of this abuse, but no one would support them. All I have said now has been said earlier from this pulpit, namely in the debate on the throne in 1999 by the representative of Carl I. Hagen. One week after the post was held in this room, the Workers' Party promoted a Document No. Eight proposals, because they were really going to deal with the issue of coercion. We see the result today: the Labour Party does not promote a single proposal, not a single measure to combat forced marriage. But the debate on coercion continues. I agree that it is not easy to find measures that work, because the few cases come to the knowledge of the authorities. In this respect, it might have been difficult to impose penalties on infringements as well. I realize that. However, this should not prevent a person from finding possible legislative changes or measures that state that he does not want this obscurity to get stuck or continue in Norway. If a person really means getting done something about this immaterial phenomenon, I think one has to look at coerciveness and arranged marriages together, simply because the limit is completely impossible to pull up. With regard to the Action Plan against Forced Marriage from the Bondevik Government and the Workers' Party's proposal, the Progress Party does not see the big difference in these, at least not today when we see that the Workers' Party has not promoted constructive action. Furthermore, I am not of the opinion that the proposed measures, either in the action plan or in what is contained in Document No. The 8 proposal is satisfactory in stopping the fundamental causes of forced marriage. These proposals are based primarily on information, which will not work against such a firm practice as this is in certain cultures. One also has to consider here that many of the parents of immigrant youth are illiterate, and these will probably rely more on what their own culture says than on Norwegian rules and habits. To reach by e.g. information brochures in such cases would have been very difficult. The Progress Party does not exclude the implementation of such preventive action, but asks whether the immigrant population really wants such guidance and information from the Nordics, who are far away from their own culture. What is accepted practice in the home country is likely to be crucial, because most immigrants maintain close contact with their home country. This is confirmed not least when we see prominent Pakistani men going out and claiming that Pakistani women have the freedom they want and that Pakistani women marry what they want. Either they deny the reality they live in, or they don't see the traumatic in it because of a incorporated cultural understanding that it should be. They simply refuse to change this unculture. I don't know any Pakistani or other minority figures who have publicly recognized these issues. If one does not at least strive to ensure that all in Norway share the same view of equality between people, it is not possible to expect a sheep to be integrated naturally. If one is to use information as an instrument, it must go directly to the emerging immigrant generation. Use of information and awareness in schools appears to be most effective. A difficult borderline is the border between arranged marriages and forced marriages. It's hard to do something with one without doing anything with the other. The question will then be whether we should have a statutory ban on arranged marriages. My claim is that it is the custom of arranged marriages that is the ‘source’ of coercion. If you want the problem to be put to life, you have to take it ‘at the source’. Increased focus on arranged marriages is therefore very important. The party to the progress has previously assessed whether or not to grant residence, family reunification, for spouses if the parties are cousins and cousins. It is fully lawful for Norwegian law to marry their cousin or cousin, but it is not common for Norwegians to do so. This is very common among many immigrant groups. Such a prohibition would, in my view, be one of the best instruments against forced marriage. – I quit calmly, because my time is running out. I'll be back in a three-minute post later. But I would like to promote the proposals in the vote. And then, finally, I would like to say to the representative, Molvær Grimstad, who wanted the Progress Party to consider submitting the proposals, that I think it was very interesting to hear the representative say that it would be foolish to vote down these proposals. So we maintain the proposals and want them dealt with in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e224	The representative Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e227	Forced marriage is unacceptable. There's no disagreement about that. Arranged marriages, on the other hand, are common in a lot of cultures. But where does the boundary between coercion and arranged marriage go? For young people who grow up in Norway, with a foot in Norwegian culture and a foot in the culture of their parents’ home country, this question can be insurmountably difficult. There is no doubt that in too many cases there are strong elements of coercion behind the so-called arranged marriage. Norway has become a multicultural society, but that does not mean that we can tacitly accept cultural traditions that violate the individual rights enshrined in different parts of our law. The law will give all citizens of our country the same legal protection, even if it means that parents have to renounce parts of what they consider to be their parents' rights and obligations to their own children, based on their native culture. Beyond the Western cultural circle, it is not uncommon that the honor of the family is linked to the education, obedience and morals of young pickers. It tends to lead parents from these cultural areas to see it as their natural right, and duty, to restrict the freedom of choice of young pickers in a way that prevents them from meeting even young boys, thereby getting a contact area that allows them to choose their own future spouse. The assignment, control of young picks and the requirements for obedience and limitation of choice are often much more stringent than the corresponding requirements for their brothers. It is in itself contrary to Norwegian law, which gives gender-neutral individual freedom. In some settings, women have reduced freedom of movement. It was quite clearly expressed in connection with the launch of the Norwegian film on forced marriage. There we heard many remarkable excuses for why Muslim women could not go to the movies in the evening. If young women are not given the opportunity to go out and meet people other than those the parents approve, their ability to move freely among the young of both sexes is reduced, and they are deprived of the social arenas where young people meet and fall in love and decide to get married. These are educational and cultural mechanisms that need to be taken into account when assessing what is coerciveness and what is the basis for asking for the dissolution of marriage. It is important that people from non-Western cultures who choose to live in Norway are adequately informed that in Norway we have a law that limits parental choice on the part of children and that this law applies to them, of course. Young people don't just have the right to be heard, they should have a natural right to respect their opinions, even if they don't agree with their parents. The legal provisions give young people from 15 years of age the right to choose an organisational relationship and from 12 years of age the right to make independent choices in personal circumstances is constantly extended. These are individual rights that parents do not have the power to deprive their children. Similarly, of course, a husband does not have the right to determine his/her spouse. This is essential information on Norwegian legislation that needs to be taken into account in the guidance material sent to schools and that should be presented in parallel to parents in an appropriate manner. On the right, support the actions described by the action plan and the related document. The issue of coercion is not of a new date. The right has raised the issue in Stortinget in the past, and we are pleased that former government councillor Svarstad Haugland took up the challenges and started working on these issues in the ministry. It does not surprise us that the scale of the problem turns out to be greater than previously assumed. We are pleased that today’s family - state council obviously takes the problems far more seriously than previous government councils from the Labour Party have done. Finally, I have some comments on the proposals of the Progress Party. Opening doors need not be opened. A great deal of what is proposed by the Progress Party is things that are under preparation and things that have already been partially implemented – measures that need to be assessed and developed in the light of the experience gained with the actions taken. In the case of housing and income issues to support the spouse for whom a claimant reunite, there was an overall Justiscomite who asked for this to be assessed. So things are here in preparation. The right does not see any need to support proposals for measures that have been partially implemented and actions that have been notified. However, we welcome the follow-up to the action plan and the evaluation of the measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e246	I was just going to make some comments on this matter, because I perceive that this is a very broad political consensus on the content of the matter. In this connection, I refer you to Mr Grimstad's posts. In recent years, there has been increased attention to this with coercion and arranged marriages, and there have been revealed tragedies that we may not have given enough attention to so far, and an unacceptable practice, where we see that what we perceive as self-evident rights for Norwegian women and men, but here especially women, does not seem to apply to Norwegian girls with minority backgrounds. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. In recent years, we have had a political focus on this, and it has provided the basis for the previous government to produce a three-year plan of action against forced marriage that is reflected in the vote. In addition, after seeing the need to address these issues further, a working group was set up in the autumn of 1999 which also drew up an action plan entitled ‘Action against Forced Marriage in Spring 2000’. There is also a reference to a number of Norwegian laws that will of course apply in this area as well, and I would also like to refer to what the rapporteur also did, namely that it has defined what is meant by forcible marriage in order to intercept a misunderstanding or that we go into this with voluntary arranged marriage. On page 3 of the setting there is a note where everyone is with except the Advance Party, and I will draw attention to it. I don't think this is a matter where we're going to make political coins on tragedies in the wake of cultural conflicts that we see here. Here we have a broad agreement to move forward with measures. In addition, reference is made to the Human Rights Action Plan, and it is also pointed out that what is in the Action Plan against Forced Marriage and Action against Forced Marriage in spring 2000 provides a good basis for the prevention of forced marriage, and that the Government needs to assess on an ongoing basis the need for further action. This is all about, and I would therefore like to warn you that you are going into a situation where someone is trying to hit political coins in such a sensitive and demanding area as this is. And then, of course, I am aware that the Progress Party has a special attitude here, which was also expressed in the post that was held by the Advance Party earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e257	At the women's conference in Turku a few years ago, I met an Iranian women's group who made a very strong impression on me with their strong resistance to violence and assault on women. And they were clear in their message: Violence against women can never be excused by culture. At a women's conference in Tromsø last year, I met women from India, China and Africa with the same message: Violence against women is a strategy to keep women in place. Violence has different expressions, ranging from atrocities, sexualized violence, physical and mental violence, trafficking in women and coercion and threats to get girls to marry against their will. Forced marriage is a serious problem, but it is also a complex and difficult problem. And there's one thing we should remember: it's a problem for women in the immigrant environments sea, for example at the MiRA centre, have put on the agenda and have been working on it quietly before the issue reached the newspaper headlines and the TV route. But it is such a big problem that the big community has to take its responsibilities by introducing measures and the necessary legislation to prevent rape and that kind of violence against women. It has to impress us, and it does, when young women in our society live in a strong conflict and fear of coercion that goes beyond well-being and living space in everyday life. There are girls – and boys – who get ruined every day by a constant conflict with parents, and there are girls who are afraid to travel and visit relatives in the country from which the parents came, for fear that they won't come back, or that if they come back, they will come with a husband they haven't wanted at all. Work on forced marriage is a long process that requires many measures. And that requires that we have a lot of thoughts in our head at the same time, and that we have the power to have it. It requires a nuanced debate, and it requires that we do not forget that there are grey zones. Anja Bredal, who has just produced a report on arranged marriages and forced marriages in the Nordic region, emphasises just this. Many of the young people she's come in contact with don't dream of a completely selfish marriage project. They want to involve the family in the choice of spouse, but at the same time have veto rights. She warns against the unsound debate, because many of the young people don't recognize it. With a more nuanced debate, she says, several will be able to feel themselves again and thus dry to talk about their own situation. And one of the recipes she gives is to create safe arenas for conversation early enough. She also says that youth must have a place to vent thoughts around arranged marriages and forced marriages without simultaneously pressing the alarm button. So then the question is which are the arenas this could be. First of all, this is about support for self-organisation and participation measures both among young people and among immigrant women – empowerment, for which we have no good Norwegian word. Keywords are education, the right to work, the right to a good enough Norwegian education, but also expectations that people who come here will learn Norwegian. Keywords are information on the rights and obligations of the Norwegian community. This must be done in networking groups, which have been set up, but it must also be done at school – yes, especially there. The teachers are for some of the immigrant girls the only adult contact they have next to their parents. Teachers must have the skills to see and understand the problems of forced marriage. But it's also about health centres, social services, child protection, that they get the skills they need to be involved in prevention and help. I have heard several stories about how the auxiliary equipment has not taken responsibility, have slipped away when the difficult issues have come up. Forced marriage is prohibited by Norwegian law, and if we really believe that it should be prohibited, this law must be enforced. This means that police resources must be prioritised in case of suspicion of coercion. SV perceives that the action plan that has started is about all this and more, and it is a good start. But we have to be impatient about putting it into life. It does so in the annual budgetary procedures, for example: SV will encourage the Government to do something about the Foreign Affairs Act, so that those who come here because of forced marriage will be allowed to stay if they break out of marriage or get it canceled, and have been advised to help them break out. But one thing we'll warn against, and that's using coercion as a backstop to intensify immigration policy, as I understand Denmark has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e278	It has been said by several speakers and I agree with it: Forced marriage is violence against women. But I think we just have to admit, we who have been on the liberal side in the Norwegian immigration debate, that we, at least in my case, have been naïve in some contexts. Because I've been naive, I haven't seen people who have suffered, and I haven't seen the intricate, social patterns that have forced them into situations where there's almost no way out. Anyone who, in the ultimate sense, has the choice of breaking with his family and getting his civil rights often deviates from his civil rights. I have personally met people who have been in this situation, both those who did not choose to break out, and also those who have broken out. Unfortunately, it is in the nature of the matter that these meetings have been anonymous. I know through my reading in the area that if we go to the heartland of the United Kingdom, the Manchester area, in Bradford, we have forcible sex in the third and fourth generations. In Norway, we are currently dealing with the second generation, and therefore there is every reason to enter this field and clean it up. I have said in the past that this has no foundation in a reasonable understanding of Islam and how it is practised, but it has a deep anchor in the forms of family culture and family life, and I will dare to express myself just as strongly and honourablely and say it in the following way: whoever puts the relative in the view of forced marriage violates the liberal honour of the Norwegian legal society. I use the words very deliberately in making sure that people actually on these questions have the right to a real choice. I also choose these moral expressions consciously, because when someone uses morals and uses social pressure connected to an honor concept, the society that we all want to stand for must express us equally ideologically strongly and set the limit. I know it's not enough, but I know it's necessary to do it. I have said this before, and I am now repeating it from the Parliamentary Chair. As far as the measures are concerned, I believe that the major challenge, when one has gradually gained insight into this area, is to take the right – take the right – and not take the business out of business. Me and my party Left do not want to hit in general with a tightening of immigration policy, but we want to hit in such a way with the means that we help these women. At that point, I reserve the right to consider different measures with an open mind, because it is really unacceptable if something that we see should just go on. That is why I agree with the position expressed by several speakers, and I know that the case-rapporteur also has – she stated in her speech that the previous government was working on possible changes to the Foreign Affairs Act, and that it is open to doing so. I don't think you're going to get away from it if you're going to fight this problem, but the art is to come up with the measures that are taken in such a way that it helps the women involved, that it actually facilitates their situation. Some of this issue also bothers me in the meeting with people working in Oslo School, and I feel like I'm going to say it openly from the Stockholm pulpit. These people say right away that until four to five years ago, women, regardless of their generation, came systematically, voluntarily to their training activities and stayed there. There was no exception to that. Over the past four and five years, there has been a growing trend towards women, both the elderly and the younger generation, withdrawing from these measures. If this is an expression of something, and I think it actually is, and I'm building on the first-hand information I've had by meeting people who have been exposed to it, it's very serious. It is so serious that it should break traditional debate boundaries on this in Norway. One should be willing to go into it from any point of view of the legal values we have. I feel that is what the Committee is doing, and I also feel that it is right, as it has been called for, that the proposals of the Progress Party be submitted. It's part of what I deeply disagree with, but some of them have elements in them that I for my part will not reject. But I want to be absolutely sure when I go into them, that they hit right, and that they don't hit anything quite different than what is intended. That's what's the challenge, finding the tools that are going on to combat the coercive regimes. At least one instrument is absolutely necessary, and it is that we have to create an atmosphere where people can stand up. I am absolutely convinced that what has now been promoted by the Ministry of Justice of the Minister of Justice is that we are witnessing an extended protection, because some of the people we are talking about here are afraid to say so. They actually dare not say from fear of their mere life. This is a very serious situation, and I personally believe that you should challenge the religious communities, and I do it from this pulpit. I assume that Norwegian imams and their community councils will completely end up fighting this fight against coercion. It is an evil that must be driven away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e291	I'm going to do something as unusual as thanking Co-Representative Dørum for a very thought-provoking and real post. I have deep respect for the knowledge he has, and what he has done in this area. For almost a hundred years, women have been working for equality and liberation in Norway. Some of the values we appreciate most in Norway are freedom, equality and solidarity. And by freedom we mean that any kind of coercion should be gone. These values can't in some way be negotiated, and neither tradition nor culture must shift by these values. We have come a long way in Norway by allowing 18-year-olds to determine their own future, and indeed their future, because they have the right to vote. Being authoritative as an 18-year-old means owning yourself, and having the ability to determine your own future. The right to choose a spouse belongs to the field of universal human rights in the world of international conventions. It was legally guaranteed in Norway almost 100 years ago by both criminal and marriage laws. I am therefore pleased today that the Stortinget takes a great deal of distance from marriage, where one party is forced. Physical coercion is easy to reveal, but mental coercion is not always easy to see. The arranged marriage is good, says Athar Ali in an interview on Sunday 17 October 1999. He claims there are several degrees of arranged marriage. However, studies show that in the Pakistani, Muslim and Turkish environment in Norway, there has been no marriage between girls with minority backgrounds living in this country and Norwegian boys. Let's see in your eyes: it can't be anything but an arrangement and coercion. I am of the opinion that politicians cannot make laws that prohibit everything, but we can show attitudes. My position is that arranged marriages are not part of the traditions that should be encouraged in Norway. Those who choose to live in Norway should also follow the good traditions we have here. That is why I must say that action plans against forced marriage are good. It is nice to help and support those young people who are subjected to forced marriage, and it is also important that parents get knowledge of the attitudes of the Norwegian society towards just arranged marriage and forced marriage. But the most important thing is that young people on a free basis are encouraged to choose for themselves, and that we politicians support this. The boundary between arranged marriages and coercion is hair fine. One experiences, for example: In recreational clubs and schools in Norway, girls with a minority background are allowed to participate actively until they are 12 years old. But then there's a change. Then the girls will be gone. They are drawn to the home, and thus they are not given the opportunity to become acquainted with Norwegian youth. The boys and girls who rebel against the system have difficulties. I think that as politicians we can help them by saying that the tradition of arranged marriages is not good for the society we want in Norway. Taking up critical aspects of the cultures and traditions of other countries may seem inappropriate, especially when one is a representative of a Western culture and sees that traditions are related to family, etc. But that is something we must stand up for in Norway, and the traditions that I hold very strong are freedom, equality and solidarity for men and for women. I've been fighting for that all my life. These values cannot be negotiated away. We must also be willing to fight for the Norwegian Muslims to have this right. We've been trying dialogue for 30 years. But it doesn't have any use, according to the statistics we see. Therefore, we should not be afraid to stand upright and say that arranged marriages are not a tradition that we should maintain in Norway. We must fight for young Muslims – over 18 years old – to be free to choose a partner of love and not be required by the family to do so in any other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e309	Let me first join Odd Einar Dørum's contributions from this pulpit, and also show that the proposers had a very good dialogue with Odd Einar Dørum before this draft document was presented. On the same day that the Committee gave its opinion on compulsory marriage, I was called by a representative of a crisis centre in Norway. She said the following: "I now have a girl here who has been coerced three times. Do you know what a human being looks like who's gone through something like this? It is like having been subjected to three different rapes.’ Work to prevent young people from getting married against their will is about fundamental human rights, as everyone else here has said today. The inviolable right of individuals to decide for themselves their own lives, to choose their own spouse, is enshrined in Article 16 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. In the Foreign Affairs Committee we now have a big message on human rights. One of the issues we are looking at is the responsibilities and obligations of the state and the authorities not only to comply with the human rights conventions themselves, but also to ensure that groups – whether there are organisations, communities, religious communities or families – do not infringe the fundamental human rights of individuals. The debate on forced marriage is also about human rights for women, that women have the same human dignity as men. Forced marriage is unacceptable, as is all other oppression and violence against women, and must be viewed in that context. It violates both Norwegian law and human rights conventions to use culture, tradition or religion as the basis for violence against women. Cultural relativism is unacceptable in a human rights context, and is otherwise a word that should disappear even among those who use it. Norwegian society, as Grethe Fossum also said, has evolved on the basis of a social democratic value base, based on equality and equivalency, on solidarity and human rights – with political institutions characterized by humanism and a legal system reflecting these values. Therefore, forced marriage is prohibited in Norway. Girls born in Norway or who have arrived in Norway at the family reunion are entitled to Norwegian legal protection in accordance with Norwegian standards and laws. If we treat girls with a minority background more disadvantageous than girls with a Norwegian background, it must be said to be both discriminatory and racist, as the main figure of the Workers' Party also underlined here. The work on measures to combat coerciveness in women’s political governance in the Workers’ Party shows that the problem has a significantly larger scale than we thought when we started work. And it requires a set of instruments in breadth. The most important thing is to prevent, prevent and stop forced marriage. I would also ask the Minister of Justice, who is sitting here, to pay attention to it. Public authorities have a specific responsibility. It concerns child protection, schools, teachers, social services, health professionals. Perhaps we should also look at teacher training and the training of health professionals. Unfortunately, experience shows that many of these have failed so far. And can anyone imagine how fundamentally deceitful it is perceived by a girl who goes to a teacher or to a social office, to be betrayed? Foreign stations must also have the competence to handle these matters, and the statutory code must ensure that no residence permit is granted to spouses if the marriage has not been concluded on a voluntary basis. Force means that marriage is not valid under Norwegian law. The subject of forced marriage is often in a threatened and distressed situation that can make reporting very difficult. Perhaps the use of public prosecution should be considered in the context of a knowledge of abuse. The most important thing is that we have measures that work in practice, whether they are laws or information measures. I've focused mainly on the girls. I have weekly enquiries from rescued young girls asking for help. What can I do? I can pass them on to other agencies, such as the crisis centres and the MiRA centre. I also believe that the crisis centres and the MiRA centre should be strengthened separately in this matter. Unfortunately, it turns out that the girls are mostly the losers by coercion. That doesn't mean there aren't any boys who suffer. Finally, allow me to quote the ending of an open letter from four young Muslims to their parents: «Do you wish to change the traditions for us and for everyone else? I wish you had the courage to do that! With love.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e349	I'm glad that Marit Nybakk at the end also mentioned something that has always been absent from this debate, namely that coercion is not just a woman's problem, but that there are also very many boys who are forced into marriage they don't want. I'll think it might be an easier situation to live with having a wife with a traditional background from a third-world country, when you're a modern-fashioned, Norwegian-thinking boy with foreign descent, than the equivalent would be for some women, but the violation of the rights of the boys is actually as great as the violation of the girls. It also turns out that between 30 and 40 pst. in fact, contacts with the contact telephones and with the centres now established come from boys who are in a situation where they are under pressure to marry against their will. In my opinion, this is not a matter for the simple solutions. When, two and a half years ago, I made an interview with the then family minister, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, it was because the debate already showed that there were major problems. Later, the problems have revealed themselves as much larger, not surprising, because the hints have been there for a long time. In the inter-pelling debate, I, on behalf of the Right, promoted a proposal to introduce an action plan against coerciveness. At that time the Minister for the Family felt that this was not necessary. In retrospect, I think it has been necessary. In particular, the reports from, for example: the organisation Self-help for immigrants and refugees, who work massively to help those who are actually in a crisis situation, that only the fact that there has been an action plan, has been a break to get the Norwegian aid apparatus to understand that this should be given priority, that the impact of the action plan may not have been so much – at least not before this year, because the fact is that nothing happened before this action plan – but the fact that there was an action plan, meant that a document could be put on the table at a social office, put it on the table at an embassy, go around and say that this is a priority area for Norwegian authorities, you have to follow up. And there are quite new and difficult issues that need to be addressed, for example. how to help a 14-15-year-old girl with the threat of coercion, move to a completely different place in the country, get an anonymous identity — all the problems that we usually only know from the most extreme family violence situations. And how do the social offices get to understand that even though this is a girl under the age of authority, the parents can't know where the child is, because it's a threat to life and security? As I said, this is not an area for the simple solutions, and I have to say that some of the proposals from the Progress Party are a little too simple, among other things. Because I don't think we in our society can put in place special rules that should not apply to all of us Nordics, but only people who come from other countries. If we're going to make new rules, they're going to have to apply to all of us. And now there is also a conflict with the question of how Norway should function as an international community, based on our desire to be an attractive area, also too highly qualified people from other countries, but who will experience that many of these rules will make it difficult to live and, for example, to live. get your family here — without having to deal with problems. Nevertheless, I think it is important that we go through many of our institutions and think: where is it possible to find places where people can think about, get alerts and get breaks? We have, from the women's ranks in the Right, met with many Muslim and other women's organisations, who point out that one of the problems is that you never get to sit alone and talk to a Norwegian authority person and maybe get to give their signals directly there. One of the issues that should perhaps have been discussed is: are we going to the step that other countries have taken, namely, to deprive religious communities of the real right of marriage and to say that all marriages in Norway also have to be punished by public offices? Then you get an arena and an area where you can sit and talk to the people concerned to know if it's coerced or not coerced. It would also be an act in relation to the question of whether bigami is part of the immigrant environment, which has therefore accepted for polycony, for which we have not accepted in our society. These breathing holes are important to provide, the opportunity to take public Norwegian authorities for those who want to give feedback. And so it's the most important thing, regardless of all these rules, because you break the basic rules that already exist, when you go into coercion, it's creating dialogue and creating a pressure on the immigrant communities to change practice. But then you have to do it in a way that you feel you've accepted in Norwegian society and don't give a sense of being stigmatised in total, because then the immigrant environments also go into much more closed circles.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e360	Since attention was paid to forced marriages in Norway, I have not registered any individuals or groups defending this inhumane act in Norway. Media has revealed situations related to forced marriages that are so serious that no one with any reason can defend this. Forced marriage is an unculture and an inhuman tradition that violates both religious and humanistic guidelines. In the view of the Workers' Party, coerciveness is a human rights issue. Human rights must apply to all people, regardless of sex, age, ethnic and religious affiliation. The right to choose the one you want to marry is a human right. In fact, many religious leaders and organisation leaders with a minority background have taken a high and distinct distance from the unculture that has developed in relation to forced marriage. It's kind of satisfying. In the fight to prevent forced marriage, it is important to work in the long term. The school is here a central and important arena. The issue of coercion should be included in curricula. Changing attitudes in the environment and informing and advising young people with a minority background are also important in preventing forced marriage. Personally, I am aware that ethnic minority communities are discussing the issue of forced marriage more seriously and more frequently than before. Seminars and debates are held on the theme of minority associations. Personally, I want a slightly more offensive attitude in the minority communities on this problem, but on the other hand, I believe in long-term cooperation with these environments. Good communication and dialogue are needed to change attitudes. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Nybakk, Mrs Tömrös, Mrs Nistad, and now the Minister for Family Affairs, Ms Orheim, who has promoted Document No. The 8-proposal for action against forced marriage. The case deserves more attention, as it has received in the last few weeks. Most of the measures proposed are preventive, and I expect an active follow-up from the Government and the departments. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Progress Party, supports these proposals because the majority believes in preventive action in the future to prevent forced marriage. Those who have read the statement will soon have noticed that the Progress Party, in line with its traditions, will introduce new, stricter laws which, in the hidden, are all about a single purpose, namely an even more restrictive immigration and control policy for people from the Third World. In its eagerness to tighten up the control policy towards immigrants, the Progress Party forgets that this is the case, and that has been documented, is that there are Norwegian girls with a minority background who are being married by coercion. As a rule, the Progress Party will have stricter laws and regulations for people with a minority background, regardless of whether they are Norwegian nationals or not. With their comments and suggestions in the case, the Progress Party reaffirms once again that they are far from showing the slightest willingness to do anything about issues related to forced marriage in Norway, but that they are only interested in closing Norway’s borders for people from the third world. I hope that more than myself have noticed the Progress Party's proposal No. 4: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose a legal provision requiring that, in the event of family reunification between non-parents and children, both parties be over 25 years of age.’ With this proposal, the Progress Party will introduce a new age limit law for those who are going to marry a non-resident in Norway. What is the argument? What does a 25-year-old age limit have to do with forced marriage? I ask the Progress Party: Does the 25-year-old age limit apply to marry everyone in Norway, or is it just picked out individual groups that are not allowed before they are 25?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e384	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e387	There are many very thought-provoking and good interventions here today that focus on and present several facets of the issue we are discussing. Forced marriage is illegal and unacceptable. At the same time, the fight against coercion is difficult because it belongs in the private sphere. Experience from work on violence against women has shown that combating private violence is a difficult and long-term work. While I believe that the recognition of the fact that there is forced marriage in Norwegian society, and that there is a serious problem, has increased, I am also afraid that the problem itself is actually getting bigger and bigger. The representative Valle mentioned the report to Anja Bredal, who interviewed 16 young people. It appears that many young people have had problems and conflicts with their parents regarding arranged marriages, including the pressure of marriage and forced marriage. The study shows different attitudes and experiences among young people, but also that several people want help from their parents to find an appropriate marriage candidate on the condition that they themselves have to make the final decision. Arranged marriage is a tradition in cultures we don't know. I agree with both Grethe G. Fossum and Odd Einar Dørum that there is a tradition in cultures the Norwegian society is not a part of, not that Norwegian society should not clearly express what we think about it. At the same time, I believe that when we get second-generation immigrants who have grown up in Norway, they will protest in a completely different way against the tradition of arranged marriages, and thus the conflict between arranged, accepted and voluntary marriages and forced marriages will be put to the fore much more. I think it is very important that we work to prevent and stimulate dialogue between generations on these issues in order to make young girls aware of their right to an independent election. It is also important because it is central to the use of many instruments by the authorities, that the girl herself comes out and says that this is not voluntary, that she does not want to enter into the marriage she is entering into. And there's the school central, and it also puts the Committee's emphasis on in its position. Forced marriage is the theme of the draft new gender equality guidebook for primary and secondary education. The county's follow-up service has also been asked to follow-up cases where students are reported to be taken out of school without cause and where there is a suspicion of planned coercion. Colleges are also asked to include this in education and as continuing training facilities. The school has the advantage of communicating with parents on individual children and on general pedagogical and social issues. There is also a possibility of dialogue and information that can give young people the necessary influence over the time of marriage and the choice of spouse. The Bondevik government was asked by the Stortinget to develop an action plan against coerciveness. It was designed in cooperation between several departments and with close contact with organisations and environments experienced in this field. A concrete approach to some measures was presented in December 1999. The majority of the Committee shall state in its opinion that these documents provide a good basis for the prevention of forced marriage. However, the Committee also stresses that the Government needs to assess on an ongoing basis whether there is a need for further action, and I fully agree with that. It is clear that the further challenge lies in, among other things: to find good measures to combat forced marriage. The government is also gaining knowledge about how other countries deal with these issues. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for monitoring both in Europe and through relevant foreign stations that meet the question by applying for a visa. The Nordic Council of Ministers is also doing a job here, and we expect that organisations and environments that this year have received funding for increased efforts in 2000 will also come up with experiences that can help to put up the effort so that we can work as best as possible in the field. The Women's Party Board has recently presented a position in connection with a work complementing the proposals put forward in Document No. 8:12. These proposals will be considered by the Government in the near future, but the proposals of the Progress Party will also be further considered by the Government. Although there are some proposals where, relatively quickly, there may be a lack of relevance, there is every reason to consider those proposals too in order to continue to work well against forced marriage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e406	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e409	The councils ended in the area I want to grab hold of. The Labour Party has a women's political movement. It was also mentioned by the representative Marit Nybakk earlier today that on the day of the Committee's vote, the Women's Movement in the Workers' Party held a press conference in which a number of proposals were presented that were well on the way to the proposals of the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is: Where are these proposals now? And do the Council of State share the proposals promoted by the Women's Policy Selection of the Workers' Party at the press conference? They have not been promoted in the Stortingen today, and I am calling for them. I also have a challenge to the Council of State in relation to the posts of Shahbaz Tariq – which is a total record bomb throughout the debate, and which is a reason why we are not getting any momentum in getting constructive solutions to the problem of forced marriage, but the opposite – and it is moving in the direction of the proposals that some representatives have signaled that they want to be sent. I would like the Council of State to comment on the proposal No. One, two, six, seven. I understood these proposals to be sent. And then my question is, as this is about to be implemented, when can we expect the outcome of this implementation? For the Action Plan on Forced Marriage, two years have now passed. When do we get any results? And the reason why the Progress Party now refuses to submit the proposals and wants them to be rebutted is that we want to put an end to the passivity shown by the rest of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e418	The representative Sandberg took up a lot of things at once. On the issue of the suspension of the Workers' Party's Women's Policy Board, it is not presented in the Stortinget, but that does not mean that the Government can consider following up proposals promoted elsewhere than in the Stortinget. I think that's a matter of course the government does. When it comes to good proposals, it should be considered whether they can be followed up. Then the representative asked Sandberg to comment on the individual proposals. I now browsed intensively to get an overview of the proposals – there were so many that I did not find them on the go. My point is that regardless of whether these proposals are voted down in Stortinget or not, I perceive the position of the Stortinget so that it does not mean that the Stortinget has taken a final position on them. That is why I think it is natural that the Government should also include in the evaluation the proposals put forward by the Progress Party, in the further fight against coercion, in the same way as the proposals of the women's political regime, for all the good proposals that can contribute to the fight against coercion, we should take care of and try to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e427	No more words have been asked for. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e432	For all of us who have long been concerned about ending the abuses under the label ‘compulsory marriage’, this debate is a joyful debate. First of all, I am pleased that all parties are involved, and that they are engaged with a glowing commitment and strong words and expressions, and I am glad that everyone states that no form of coercion is acceptable. I am also pleased that a unanimous committee in the setting repeats the definition of forced marriage that the Women's Movement of the Workers' Party has also taken into account. That definition is a good starting point for finding more responses to these abuses. I am also pleased that everyone acknowledges that the work against forced marriage has not been good enough so far. As clear and unanimous signals, combined with a work that is already as well-running as it is, hope that the conditions can improve in this area in the future. As many people have said, this is a complex problem for which there is no simple solution. It is not possible for one measure orlegislation to resolve this. We need a width, and we need a width. It is about prevention and providing information in such a way that it actually comes to those who need it. It's about attitudes and making an assistive device that allows the girls and boys who want it to break out of their social relationships and families. And it's about possible legislative changes, in the Foreign Affairs Act, in the Marriage Act, in the Child Protection Act and perhaps in even more laws. I am pleased that the committee leader made it clear that Stortinget wants to get back a review of possible legislative changes. However, it is equally important to review the legislation, for example: to the UDI, in the instructions for our foreign stations. Are the guidelines in the daily work of the UDI for the square? It is about giving priority to the people who are sitting and managing, what the authorities are going to do, what the authorities are going to do about it. There are many in the system who are falsifying and uncertain about what they really have the power to do, and then we have to give them the tool and make sure that they become active in this fight. Fortunately, a lot has happened in the seven months that the proposal has been before the committee, and a lot is going on. Once you've focused and lighted this, as it is now done, we see that several suggestions pop up. This has also been the case in this debate, among other things. from Erna Solberg. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has now confirmed that all the proposals will be included in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e449	It was the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein who made me ask for the floor to make a little comment at the end of this debate. She said she was pleased that there was a broad consensus on the questions raised here, she found that coercion was a growing problem, and that there had been some tragedies. And Ane Sofie Tömrås now said that it could be in place with possible changes in laws and bet a lot on information. It was a Norwegian saying that struck me when I heard these posts: While the grass grows, the cow dies. Where in the world have representatives Ane Sofie Tömrös, Anne Enger Lahnstein, Marit Nybakk and all the others been for the last 15 years? The fact that it has been so long to see that it follows problems with the blue-eyed, naive immigration policy that has been pursued, the total lack of giving immigrants to Norway duties and training in what it means to live in this country is really incredible. The Progress Party has notified this for 15 to 20 years. And you've turned the deaf ear to. After many years it has been obvious that Norwegian citizens, both young boys and girls, are being forced to marry a cousin or a cousin they have never met — from Pakistan, Morocco or other countries — one only starts to talk about the problem and presents it as one says that a lot of people are taking part in the debate and are in the discussion! And you talk about possible changes in laws! I think it's embarrassing. I think that the lack of action and the total lack of willingness to do relatively simple acts that would have significant effects on and help many of these unhappy people is a tragedy for Norwegian democracy. The Progress Party has made eight proposals, several of them based on what social democrats have done in Denmark. How long are you going to drive and evaluate and evaluate before you actually do anything? Is it so that one government after another – as it works when we read newspapers by day – only does the bureaucrats do what they want, and never has a powerful council that can make a decision for itself and stand for something? I am disappointed with this debate instead – as the others say they are – to be proud.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e459	Unlike the last speaker, I am not ashamed of this debate. I believe that one in this debate has shown great insight and concern for the young people who are married against their will. That is what this matter is all about. It is not about Norwegian immigration policy, although the Progress Party is still trying to turn it into what other speakers have said earlier. Something has been done, quite a bit actually, and more will be done in the future. And when one knows that the current family minister is behind the proposal in Stortinget, and when one listens to the councillor Harlem saying that this should be followed up, I'm not afraid that this should not happen to the necessary extent and at a fast enough pace. But most of us know that these are emotionally difficult issues for many, and then one of the tools is to spend a reasonable amount of time so that a certain understanding of what we're going to find out. But at some point, we have to conclude and be tough and say, "I can't." And today, many – including the original Pakistani Shahbaz Tariq – have said that this does not accept us, coercion is totally unacceptable. I don't think I'm flattered! There's a broad term here, we're agreed on the most in the setting. In addition to my progress party, something extra. The Progress Party has some proposals which have been largely withdrawn from Document No. The 8th amendment. Of course, the rapporteurs and the Labour Party are behind the proposal that has been put forward, but when we put a matter to the Minutes, we do not normally make decisions. Now we trust that Karita Bekkelem Orheim and Hanne Harlem follow this up in the government. And if there is a need for a change of laws, which is good reason to believe, they will of course come back to the Storing with this. But to do that, we don't have to make decisions here. That is why I would like to ask the Progress Party once again to turn the proposals into proposals for transmission, because it is a little strange for them to have some proposals voted on, which are clearly a number behind. What is not supported in this room, as far as I can evaluate, is that we should create a special marriage age for immigrants. I am also in doubt about the proposal to reintroduce a ban on sibling poison. It may be that one should reconsider it, especially if there are medical reasons for it, but then there must be a ban that should apply to all, and at least not to special groups. The conclusion is that we are satisfied with that Document No. The 8th proposal is appended to the minutes. We feel very well that this is followed up by engaged people in the department offices. And if the proposals from the Progress Party are taken for consideration, we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e481	It was the post of the representative Hagen who made me ask for the word, because I was just a little provoked by it. Lifting up to the large heights based on a belief that this problem can be solved by a simple change of laws is completely wrong. It's trying to make a political conflict or a point of something there's no point in it. I do not agree that the issue of coercion has been resolved if the Stortinget adopts the proposals of the Progress Party. The basic problem here is that the young people who are subjected to forced marriages often do not dare to say so. How, with a change in the law, will it be possible to solve the problem that young people who are under pressure from their family do not dare to say so? We can't solve this by simply changing the law. I believe that the Progress Party too should be able to understand and that, therefore, there are no simple solutions to this major problem. I also confirm that to the extent that the Government is prepared to make changes, we will of course come back to Stortinget. The government doesn't do it on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e490	Actually, you shouldn't be provoked by Carl I. Hagen, because his posts were a special show in this regard, but I have to say that after reading the eight proposals, I've wondered if you really thought about the consequences of them in the Progress Party. Some of them are completely curative. The whole action plan against coerciveness is really about what is in proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox Both proposals No.1 and several of the others concern proposals for evaluation. But when you go in and look at what's in proposal No. 3, it's not a proposal that helps against coercion. It says: ‘The Grand Duchy asks the Government to propose a legal provision requiring that the spouses originally residing in Norway be a Norwegian national.’ A lot of the girls and boys that we're talking about are Norwegian citizens. It wouldn't help them at all. This, on the other hand, would have created major problems in relation to the fact that we need a greater degree of labour immigration in the coming years. And if it's the Dream of the Advance Party together with the Workers' Party to implement a large IT centre at Fornebu, there will come many IT nerds around from countries in the Third World to work there, and that would mean that none of them would be allowed to get married during the period they were in Norway. Would Norway have been an attractive place to come to with their skills if the requirement that one should be allowed to marry and take a wife from their home country after one had come to Norway was that one had become a Norwegian citizen? It actually takes a few years. There is a great need to look at the content of these proposals and to review them much better. And because you have partially gone through many of these proposals, I think the Progress Party should see that even if they try to run ahead in many of these contexts, they simply don't make any of the proposals. And some of them require legal processing and a review of the consequences also for other parts of our society. And then I think that the basic principle must be that we should introduce rules here, they must also apply to the Nordics, not only to people with a foreign ethnic background.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e502	After a few years of participation in the debate on immigration, it is likely that many accounts can be made of who has used a high voice in different areas over the years. But I want to add a perspective: if we've just made it a self-search to talk about coercion, I want to say that in the case of the other side of discrimination, the one like that. has led to the fact that over-competent immigrants, due to their name and skin colour, have never received jobs for which they are well qualified, there has been no annoying commitment, although some action plans have been made. If we're going to take this into account first – and we should – I think we're going to use the tone that we have something to learn. However, I fully agree with the representative of Solberg that when we first go into action, the instruments have to stand up, no matter where we are. That's exactly what must be the very basic thing, with the way of life that we have and that is based on the liberal state of law, that our values should stand in any way. And the challenge in this debate is to have tools, and changes, in relation to the law of alienation, which makes it so precise that nothing is being done and not much else in addition. I'd like to use a picture from criminal policy activity – I've used it from the pulpit in another context: the point is not to use a jet bag, the point is to use a harpoon. And then we have to see if we can find the harpoon and not necessarily wrap around with legal jet bags. I feel that there is a lot of progress to the last of the Progress Party's proposals, and that's why I expressed myself as I did about them. But it does not deter me from looking for the solutions that will make, and I reserve the right to come back to such proposals. I think what we need in Norway in order for people to stand up and testify is that we hold on to it as the main tone of this debate, that people are so humble also from the pulpit of the Stortinge that they say they have something to learn. If we can hold on to it as a base tone, it could be that young people also want to express themselves the same way. Politicians who are so sure that they have seen the light since the morning, I am not sure of appeals to humility and wonder – and feedback. But if we come to the common point that I feel that the overwhelming majority in this debate has been at, that we are at that miracle, that we are looking for solutions and that we are inviting everyone to join in, then we have a chance to do something. Because it's only in the open debate that something is happening, and it's in the transparency of the debate maybe over the last year that we've got witnesses with a forcible background that has stood out and said something. That is what has created dynamism in the debate, because we have living people to whom we relate. We have to hope that we get more of that, and I am absolutely sure that this debate also provides the basis for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e511	I think the last part of the debate is now a confirmation of why we do not get along with the issue of coercion. So here comes the Council of State and representatives from the Workers' Party, the Right, etc. in the Chair and turn the debate over to the immigration policy of the Progress Party. The Council of State goes so far as to say that a single bill from the Progress Party will not remove the problem of coercion. No, but we have never said that! Here, eight proposals from the Progress Party have been put forward, and what we claim is that action must be taken in order to start the process at all in relation to the problem of forced marriage. But I'm recording that the Council of State says she won't support any of the eight proposals. And it's nice to take it further. Erna Solberg from the Right says that she does not understand the proposals of the Progress Party. I understand that, especially when you go back to the debate last year, when Right-leader Petersen would like to elaborate on his argument to go against the proposals of the Progress Party at that time. He said that in the case of proposals No. 4 and 5 from the Progress Party, they are not «all the world's linguistically clearly designed», so it «believes I must report to the Right». That was the argument for going against the two proposals in 1999. So now is the argument that one does not understand proposal No. 3 and therefore cannot support any of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party. But I would like to help the representative, Mr Solberg, here: Proposal No. 3 will be a very good and effective tool in relation to family reunification. It admits the Advance Party honestly and sincerely. There's also a lot of fate here, and it's not about Norwegian citizens, just so it's said. Such a proposal is also addressed by the social democrats in Denmark and is likely to be adopted. So it should not be alarming that it is the Progress Party that is promoting this proposal. The Labour Party is further developing the situation in Norway 30-40-50 years ago and is using it as an argument that we should not be so aggressive in relation to the issue of forced marriage! Is there a way to argue? I'm afraid we have the composition that Stortinget now has, never comes any way with regard to the problem that coercion is for those of our young people who get such a destiny. I want to quote from VG April 4th, where Hege Storhaug and Shabana Rehman say: ‘An entire generation of minority youth has failed by both their own and well-meaning ‘anti-racist’ Nordics.’ And by the majority in The Norwegian Storing – is my claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e529	When Hagen finds reason to make a little guest vision into the hall here and up on this pulpit, we are fully documented that the Progress Party has a completely different agenda than we others who have participated in this debate today. The Progress Party is concerned with immigration policy. The rest of us have been, are and are going to be concerned with preventing and preventing — or stopping — young people with a minority background who have Norwegian citizenship or residence permits in Norway getting married with more or less coercion, and preventing the tragedies such as: I'm a weekly witness, because in the last few years, I've been in crisis centers, talking to people who are employed in crisis centers, talking to a host of young girls who are terrified and desperate because they're threatened with forced marriage. This is the theme today. And those of us who are doing this on an anti-racist basis are concerned about stopping forced marriage in Norwegian democracy. When a Bosnian girl has to be followed to the limit by a representative of a crisis centre, gain a new identity – with all that it involves – it is painful and difficult. The problem cannot be solved with the light and clumsy remarks of the representatives of the Progressive Party from this pulpit. With regard to the proposals from the Progress Party, I also see that there are elements in the proposals on which it is absolutely necessary to continue working. It can be done by the state councils Karita Bekkelem Orheim and Hanne Harlem, regardless of what the Storting had to do with these proposals today. However, I would also like to call on the Progress Party to convert these proposals into transmission proposals. Finally, let me ask the Minister of Justice to look at the gender dimension of Norwegian foreign legislation, both the regulations and the practice of dealing with individual cases. In the work we have done, we have recorded that the gender dimension has been substantial. We have several examples where Norwegian-born girls of Pakistan or other origin have tried to prevent their new husbands from staying in Norway because of forced marriage. Nevertheless, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs grants a residence permit. The man hears, not the woman. When a woman comes to Norway to get married, and is abused because the man does not want her, the woman is thrown out of the country, while the man goes free. This actually means that the woman is the loser in all foreign affairs. The women aspect should now be reviewed, so that we do not feel unworthy that it is the women who lose all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e542	It is a commendable initiative that has been taken in this debate. What's behind this is the revelations that have emerged in connection with the TV 2 Centre – and what has actually also emerged in this debate. But I think it's a derailment of the debate when you only focus on coercion and arranged marriage. This is about something that sticks a little deeper, but nobody wants to talk about. It's about religion. It's a religious conflict. It's not enough to pass a law. It is the conflict between Muslims and Christians we are discussing in the Chamber – without discussing it. It is a fact that Muslim women cannot marry non-Muslim men. Women who marry Muslim men become the property of the man, both the woman and the children become the property of the man. A Muslim man can happily marry a non-Muslim woman, for she becomes his property, both she and the children – his property! That's the problem. If you go a little deeper into matter, there's reason to ask the question: How many Muslim women are married to non-Muslim men here in Norway? You want to find a disappearing little number. If we go the other way, and we look at how many non-Muslim women are married to Muslim men, you'll find completely different numbers. That's what's causing the basic problems we have here. This has not been addressed by the proposers. It is not easy to adopt laws designed to change a religion. That's the problem. How can a young girl who grows up in a Muslim family who is required to marry the girl of a Muslim get the freedom to marry a non-Muslim man? It's a debate we can take, but we can't legitimize it. Of course, there's a job here in modern Muslim society in Norway, but there's a big job to do, so here's a change of attitude that needs to be started. It's not just about inquisitives. The Muslims need to change their mind on the question of letting the girls get married to whoever they want, out of love. It's the Muslims who have to clean up their own camp. It's not useful with changes in the law. And it's of little use to debate this in the hall if you're not willing to discuss the basic problem. It's religion that's the problem, and it's the dechristening of Norway that's the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e555	The representative, Mr Sandberg, expressed his dissatisfaction with the fact that the last part of the debate had turned more towards the immigration policy of the Progress Party. It's a dissatisfaction I think all of us who have participated in the debate share. We wanted to discuss measures against coercion. But who was the one who turned the debate around? Well, the debate turned against the immigration policy of the Progress Party and motivated Carl I. Hagen's contributions. When I said in my speech, I was delighted with the use of words in the debate and the degree of condemnation, it was not an invitation to Carl I. Hagen to use the same words, but to turn them against his colleagues. What's a tragedy, and what's flabby, to use Carl I. Hagen's own words, is that the representatives of the Progress Party once again seize a tragic situation, address a complex problem in our society, and use it to talk generally about narrowing immigration policy. It is a mockery of women and men who are in a desperate situation, who need help from the Norwegian authorities and from us, to respond as the Progress Party does, namely to give a signal that they really should not have been here at all. That's the real problem. The debate has shown that there is agreement and understanding on the scope of the problems and that there is agreement on the definition of compulsory marriage; at least everyone, including the Progress Party, is included in the definition in the committee position. There is agreement on the further work. It is agreed that all good proposals that have come up must be managed and taken care of in the further work. It has also been confirmed by the Government with the Minister of Justice. If, however, the Progress Party then chooses not to repeat its proposals for transmission proposals, I cannot see any other reason but that the Progress Party wants to stand and beat itself on the chest, and there are blows that give a scrupulous, ominous echo about what are the real motives behind the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e564	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e567	I'm gonna be okay. What is a mockery is that the majority in the Norwegian Grand Prix with the Workers' Party at the head are unable to give a signal to the immigrant youth that they want to do something about the matter. It's the big mockery against these kids. I will be allowed to say to the representative Nybakk: I have registered that she has made two touching contributions about the immigrant youth that is being affected by this. And so I would say: the progress party is concerned with the same problems that Nybakk's party sisters are in Denmark. I personally traveled to Denmark and had a meeting with them, and they are behind most of these suggestions. The representative Nybakk has been in contact with the crisis centres. Yes, so do we in the committee. And what did the broadcasters who were consulting us say? Yes, they supported proposal No. 8 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 5 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and supported proposal No 5 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Has Nybakk not received the signals from the crisis centres she has visited? That's what the problem is, they just refuse to pick up the signals that the different organizations are dealing with, which the Progress Party is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e577	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3321]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e591	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3321]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e605	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e619	This setting is based on a private proposal from several SV representatives who suggest governmental measures to preserve old crafts and industry. Today, 27 subjects are defined as small and protective. In addition, there are about 30 courses in the frontier country to be considered small and protective. In sum, this means that almost a third of all subjects are small and protective. It is a co-ordinator's committee that points to the importance of maintaining and appreciating the professional competence they represent, for both industrial and cultural reasons. When you agree with this, it is equally important that these subjects are documented by professional or youth letters. As this is about small subjects that are mainly practiced in small businesses, it would be difficult for companies to see themselves in a position to assume responsibility for an apprentice alone. This means that several companies need to merge and be organised through their own training offices. A training office is per definition of a body for enterprises cooperating in the training of apprentices. Such offices have a common responsibility for setting up municipalities and enterprises. The Committee points out that the Training Office for Small and Protective Subjects covers only a few countries. In addition, they have problems with poor finances. The reason for this is that many companies are struggling to pay for the apprentice. In this way, the training office must use most of the apprenticeship to cover the salary of the apprentice. The Committee is aware that the Ministry has raised 1 million. kr both in 1999 and in the current fiscal year through the Secretariat for Small and Protective Subjects in Lillehammer, to help in the economic situation of training offices. In order to ensure the training offices' defence work, the Department recommends an increase in the rates of subscriptions to apprenticeships in small and protective subjects. This agreement shall be concluded by the Committee. There would be unclear responsibilities if the State were to finance and organise some training offices with a separate promise. The Committee's plural calls for more offices to be set up to cover the whole country. The Committee is aware that it is the enterprises that decide where they want to set up training offices and the geographical area to which it should cover. This means that the department or the Stortinget can determine where they will be established, and it is not desirable to do so from the point of view of the division of responsibilities in further training. It is therefore important that we facilitate the establishment of several offices and that these offices can then be organised to cover the whole country. The party of progress has expressed concern about such a fragmentation of the training office as the majority would like, and I believe that they themselves will argue for this later in the debate. When it comes to defining subjects that are small and protective, where knowledge has gone from generation to generation, the Committee believes that it is important that the list of subjects does not become static, but is updated at regular intervals in order to obtain a system that is somewhat conservative. Finally, the Committee calls on the Ministry to assess the functions of the Lillehammer Small and Protective Subjects Secretariat — whether this office is functioning according to its intention — and also to ensure that the Ministry returns to the Stortinget with such an assessment in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e642	It is clear with all possible clarity that there is no significant degree of disagreement between the parties in this case. The Progress Party is also fully in line with the other parties, which is very clear in the suspension both in terms of corporate responsibilities and in terms of payment, grant schemes, etc. But we have some very clear and clear concerns. We are concerned that offices for very small subjects are being set up more widely across the country and that the necessary coordination, overall vision and uniform treatment of the interested apprentices can be diluted. We're also meant to be aware of the contours of the creation of offers in schools around their own school lines. The quality of education will then be slow, but certainly confused. A deterioration in quality will cause further deterioration, which we clearly see in several subjects after the introduction of Reform 94. In addition, we must consider that geographical location is of secondary importance in terms of the conservation of the subjects and the strengthening of the quality of the small professional environments. And here we're actually talking about professional environments like per. Today we are so small that we cannot use the term ‘enterprises’ for those who operate them. It's about maybe only one or two professionals left on a national basis. We have to take that inwards. I might talk and have concerns on behalf of what is extremely small, and is about to die. In terms of areas that are slightly larger, I think I can agree a lot. We are also concerned that access to resources in the future, when large parts of the appropriations are to be used for administration, will dry up. The Progress Party will point out that there are priorities that need to be made. We recognise that priorities are not the best for politicians, either here in Oslo or on a national basis. And these will be extremely difficult economic priorities. We would point out that there is no more than that. 1–2 professionals once again on a national basis, difficulties will quickly arise in the preparation of training plans in each subject. It is then the professionals in the system who must be involved in making these professional plans – no one else. We can't set up desk people to make training plans for subjects that they don't know anything about. When the apprentices have completed their training and are to be tested for a test subject, we have a significant credibility problem. Those sitting on the subjects must in these cases necessarily be the same as those who have made the training plans. It must be the same persons who have been responsible for the apprentice during training in this sole proprietorship. And these same people also have to participate as specialists in the subjects. This is the goat and oat bag if we're not very careful, are predictable and can show extremely great degree of flexibility and consideration. This brochure that I have here, «Become a member of the Training Office for Small and Protective Subjects», covers 20 of these subjects, but there is at least one subject that is totally missing. It's probably so small that you just forgot. It's a big watchmaker. This subject concerns large clock movements – larger than large alarm clocks – for example. City Hall Clock in Oslo. It is a small subject, also in the European context. I think it has less than ten in Europe today, one of them is in Norway. In such small professional contexts, a really high level of personal involvement is required; it cannot be pushed into a training office at any place. And it takes a very large amount of public flexibility and flexibility, which the Progress Party does not feel is what we see most in public contexts. If we're going to be able to take care of these small ones too, we think that the road to geographical distribution of training offices based on enterprises shows that someone hasn't completely captured the vast breadth of what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e657	The Centre Party considers it essential to ensure the competence of the old crafts sector, not least in the field of cultural heritage conservation. The attitude shows that there is a broad consensus in the Committee on this; we also support the increase in the number of training offices. But then it is necessary that words be followed by action, and with that budgetary means. Several training offices are primarily intended to help students wishing to have a learning contract in small and old crafts, but they should also help workshops/businesses to facilitate apprentices. This can also be done by uniting sole proprietorships into training rings, where they individually take responsibility for part of the vocational training. The point is to get the small businesses to take the ‘congestion’ by being a learning business. As the Secretariat for the Protection of Professionals says in its information brochure: ‘Having apprentices is a challenge. They are creative, look at the activities of young people, are demanding and are a resource for the company.’ This means that the enterprise or activity in question has both the necessary capacity and competence. It is important to keep this in mind when you want to see this matter in a holistic perspective. The training system in Norway has been criticised for being too bureaucratic. It is therefore essential that the proposed training offices become slightly more than paper movers. The Agency must be a competence hub for enterprises and apprentices. It will be the Ministry’s challenge – together with the relevant training councils for crafts – to ensure that this happens. In the brochure from the secretariat for protective subjects, I have listed a total of 58 subjects that come under the category we are now referring to. That's a significant number. Training in small, protective crafts has been taken up at the level of the Nordic Council, and it is important that Nordic countries cooperate in training in this field. In addition to mentioning the secretariat for protective subjects, I would also like to remind you that the Maihau craft register should be used to help students, apprentices and apprentices as far as appropriate. Nor should one overlook the fact that the vocational training offices in the individual counties possess competence in some of the old protected subjects. The new training offices we refer to in the setting shall have the top competence that the regular vocational training offices do not have the possibility to fill. SV deserves praise for the fact that the matter is on the agenda. I would also like to point out that I myself mentioned earlier how to ensure a higher level of education in addition to a letter of formal qualifications or a letter of association in the construction trades. A working group has presented a position to the Ministry of Education and Research. I expect this to be dealt with in connection with the decision-making and follow-up of the Berg Committee, as the previous Council of State was set up. For the practical craftsmanship as well, there is a need for a professional immersion in addition to a trade or tradesmanship letter. It's about nothing less than taking care of our cultural heritage, a cultural heritage that has its origins hundreds of years ago. This hand-held knowledge cannot be replaced by modern technology, but the new technology can be a tool for necessary R & D work in the field, not least in terms of registration and documentation. An example of this was received by the Committee during its visit to the University of Bergen last year. There we saw how ICT and other media are used to study hundreds of years-old crafts and crafts down to the smallest microscopic details in the glass craft. Now I am far from creating training offices for small and protective crafts, but in an overall perspective, I think it is appropriate to bring it here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e677	In the number of courses and diplomas, this is a small matter. However, it is important because for several of the subjects it is about managing central parts of the cultural heritage. These are subjects that are threatened because they lack access to young candidates, and not least because there is no organised training provision that stimulates young people to choose these subjects. If nothing is done, a lot of these subjects will die out. Some people say it's going to happen anyway. However, it is important that we be able to take care of subjects and techniques that are necessary to ensure that important cultural memories are not destroyed. As the rapporteur said, this profession is practised in small enterprises. Often there is only one employee, and it is this craftsman who can trade, but he does not have the opportunity to accept apprentices – many do not have a conscious relationship with their own subject either so that they can take on apprentices – so that the subject and tradition can be carried on. In order to have enough apprentices in these disciplines, therefore, it is necessary to cooperate between the different enterprises so that they can jointly take responsibility for recruiting an apprentice. It could be said that this initiative should come from the individual enterprise, from the different enterprises. Experience has shown that this will not work, and therefore such cooperation must be initiated by the authorities. It is primarily the responsibility of the county council, but it should also be the responsibility of the State to initiate this cooperation in order to establish training offices. This is done a lot of places. Today, we have offices in Oslo and Trondheim, as well as an office in Finnmark that has a special responsibility for the subjects linked to the Sami culture tradition. And then we have a separate office in Akershus, which Akershu County Municipality itself has established, a separate culture ring that takes responsibility for the special subjects that are linked to the museums in the county. What we know is that in those parts of the country where there are no training offices, and where there is no cooperation, it is more difficult to get young people to choose a apprenticeship in these subjects. That's why I think that the model of training offices that are established in some states is a good model, because it can stimulate young people to choose these subjects, and it can also stimulate companies to cooperate in taking in one or more apprentices. That is why this is a good model, which – as the rapporteur also pointed out – the majority of the committee is set up, and we point out that this model must be able to spread across the country. We don't see ourselves -- at least I think the majority in the committee -- that it's our job to create a particular organisational model. But what is the responsibility of the state and the state councils is to take an initiative towards the county councils so that one can achieve cooperation between them and the companies that exist within the different county councils, so that more offices can be established. We have pointed out that with a few more offices the country can be well covered. We also point out that the Secretariat that was established a few years ago will not have a special role if we get to a nationwide office system. We ask the Ministry to assess the future of the Secretariat. I just want to advise the Council of State that he should consider whether this Secretariat can be developed into a separate office, for example for the domestic states – in this case Hedmark and Oppland in particular – so that it can develop into a separate office for these counties that takes responsibility for getting more apprentices and getting the companies to cooperate on taking in apprentices. This is not, as the Progress Party claims, a sort of bureaucracy. These offices are active in relation to enterprises. They're active in relation to the schools, and so they do a job so that we can get more apprentices into these little and threatened subjects. Therefore, the whole argument that the Progress Party has built up, I find it difficult to understand. The majority point to a red tape. There we can do something by reorganising the secretariat so that it becomes an active office that contracts with companies and teaches young people. My advice to the Council of State is therefore: take an initiative towards the county councils, get a dialogue, get a cooperation, so that county councils can take responsibility for the small enterprises that have the type of trade within their territory, and set up a nationwide system of offices, so that we can bring in more apprentices. That's my advice to the Council of State. The state councils probably have a lot of opportunities to meet state politicians and bureaucrats from the counties, so this message he should be able to get to them. That's what I'm counting on. And I think the majority of the committee agrees that this is a good way to organise this. You can see that in the vote by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e694	I fully agree with the Committee's commitment to the small and protective subjects. It is not just about securing future skills in professions that will also be needed in the future, but it is also about an important part of our cultural heritage, as the representative Tingelstad was involved in. We have therefore already said from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research that we will continue the grant to the training offices for small and protective subjects, and we will also better facilitate more apprenticeships in small and protective subjects. The representative Reikvam said that we should have an engagement to improve the coverage of training offices across the country. Now it's not the state that's setting up a training office. That's what the educational establishments themselves do. It is therefore the educational establishments that decide where they want to establish training offices. However, in line with what the representative Mr Reikham said, I would like to take an initiative and engage in a dialogue with the local authorities concerned on how to better perform the apprenticeships in the small and protective subjects. We will help the county councils start a dialogue with the industries and training offices with a view to finding good solutions for small and protective subjects in their area. It is true that there are only about half of the apprenticeship contracts in small and protective subjects signed within the training offices for small and protective subjects. The other half is drawn outside. That is why we want to facilitate not only the learning contracts that have been signed through the training offices for small and protective subjects, but also the others, to have good growth conditions. Therefore, we need to find models for training offices and apprenticeship systems that are adapted to both groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e703	I'm not going to go out of the debate, because there's a broad consensus here, but just a little comment on the last Council of State said that there are also companies outside these training offices that sign apprenticeships. For the most part, of course it is! Some companies are, after all, somewhat larger, so that they themselves have the opportunity to establish a system of apprentices directly, without being a member of a training office and thus commit themselves to it. That's very good, and we have to take care of that and develop it. However, such a scheme will mainly – and it is important to emphasise – concern those companies which are somewhat larger than the small ones operating in the disciplines where it is perhaps most difficult to obtain recruits, where it is most important that we manage to maintain the tradition of these subjects. One must therefore be very careful, one must not lie back and feel that this works well as half of the contracts go outside the offices, as said, the largest companies. I am pleased that the Council of State will take an initiative, that he will talk to the county councils, that he will talk to the industries – it may be difficult, but at least talk to the companies – and get the county councils to talk directly to businesses that can be involved. In this way, I am also satisfied with the answers of the Council of State, and that we have as our goal – that is how I perceived the Council of State, even if the State can not impose it on anyone – to get into a nationwide system of offices, so that the smallest subjects, the subjects that are most threatened, do not die while the grass grows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e710	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e726	There are two reasons why I have traveled this interpellation. One is of a general nature and is linked to the future challenges facing Norwegian society and which there is a cross-political consensus that we are facing. This applies to the future of Norwegian business, and so it also applies to Norwegian business. definition of the future of the Norwegian education system. If we are to succeed in asserting ourselves in increasing international competition in all areas, it is clear that the Norwegian education system must also adapt to a new international reality. I also noted with pleasure that the Council of State in its educational policy statement to the Stortingen some time ago placed considerable emphasis on the need for education policy to be seen in an international perspective and not just in an introverted Norwegian perspective. This is the general background, but there is also a more specific reason why I found the time to travel such an interpellation, and it is that I know that there are some schools that have applications located in the department for approval under the private school law and, in part, the training law, in order to continue offering to students. This applies both at secondary level and at primary level. The problem we're facing is that neither one law nor the other law is designed with this in mind. Both the private higher education law and the private school law are marked by the fact that they are formulated at a time when this was a problem issue that was not experienced as it is. Furthermore, the problem is that for the same reason there are no established practices that the administration can adhere to when it comes to dealing with applications of this type. Let me give an example that we are therefore in a situation where we are largely defensive and problem-oriented about these kinds of challenges, rather than offensive and potential-oriented: the ministry has already lost one legal dispute in interpreting the private higher education law. It was a question of whether the private higher education law also covers educational services provided outside the borders of the Kingdom. The Ministry's interpretation of the law was that such offers per definition is omitted. The Court did not agree with the Department. It should already be a warning that we are following a far too defensive line in dealing with the challenges of international society. At the moment, there are three primary school applications located in the department. One is from Skagerak International School in Sandefjord who has applied for access to, and approval for, an international baccalaureate line at primary school level. The school has been operating for many years with good results with IB-offers at secondary school level. There is a strong desire from the local business community, from the municipality and also from neighbouring municipalities in Vestfold that such an English-language offer can be established at primary school level. There is therefore no local dispute about the need for such a school offer. The other two things are applications from the French School and from the German School here in Oslo. Both are well established schools with long pedagogical traditions with solid quality control schemes from the original countries, Germany and France, respectively. What is new in recent years is that an increasing number of students in these schools have either one or both parents who are Norwegian, i.e. Norwegian parents consider this a particularly interesting school offer to send their children to. Nor can there be any doubt that from Norway’s foreign policy this is a particularly loving contribution to strengthening cooperation with the countries concerned, respectively Germany and France. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just developed a comprehensive strategy plan to strengthen Norway’s cooperation with Germany. In the past, we have set out plans for extensive cultural cooperation with France in connection with Norwegian business cooperation with France. Let me also mention that it should be an additional argument that for many years we have been struggling in our Norwegian school system with training in other foreign languages. All Norwegian children undergoing public schooling learn to master English fairly well. But it's obviously not enough in the future we're going into, that young Nordics are able to understand themselves in English. We will in the future have a growing need for the Nordics to master other main languages, both in our own continent and in other parts of the world. At my discretion, there can be no doubt that these schools fall under the criterion of private school law when it talks about educational alternatives. But I understand that what makes the treatment of these applications run a long way – the French school sent its application last March, so there has been much more than one year without any results, the German sent its application last June, so it is approaching a one-year anniversary there too – is that the department has problems getting the math to go together, more specifically on the one hand whether this is different enough in relation to the public school's offer to call it a pedagogical alternative, and on the other hand whether it is similar enough, that is. whether it meets the curriculum requirements that you otherwise operate with in the public Norwegian school. It is not easy for institutions wishing to approve to deal with such conflicting expectations — on the one hand, to demonstrate that there are sufficient differences and, on the other hand, to demonstrate at the same time that they are sufficiently similar to the normal Norwegian school. That is my hope, and that is the background to the fact that I have delivered the interpellation, that the new Council of State will follow up the overall profile of the government that Stoltenberg presented to Stortinget as it presented its government statement. Where the «Norway» review melody is the society of opportunity». At my discretion, the possibility of taking in a more diverse, both linguistic and cultural offer in the Norwegian schoolscape is one of the most positive opportunities for success in the internationalisation of Norwegian society. I hope that the Council of State in its answer will choose to see the possibilities and thus cut through in terms of the problems. It is my hope that the Council of State on this challenge will not interpret this into the traditional introverted discussion of private schools as a phenomenon, because that is not what this matter is. This is about whether we want to use the existing law to solve problems that it was not originally made for the purpose of solving. At my discretion, both the Education Act and the Private School Act allow this. The only thing that matters is political will. It is my hope that the political will is present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e756	Pursuant to Section 2-1 of the Training Act, compulsory primary education may take place in primary public schools or in other equivalent training. Private training offers are required to provide a level of competence equivalent to that acquired by the pupils in public schools. Private primary schools may be approved under the Training Act § 2-12 or under the Private School Act § 25 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox International primary schools in Norway are explicitly mentioned in the Training Act § 2-12. An international elementary school which complies with the minimum conditions of the Training Act will be entitled to be approved under the Training Act as other private schools, but approval does not trigger State grants for the operation. The size has allowed the Ministry to derogate from some of the requirements of the Training Act in the case of international and foreign schools, but not from the requirement that private training should provide a qualification equivalent to that of students in Norwegian public schools. The Ministry must address issues such as this during the examination of applications for authorisation. The Ministry has previously approved the International School of Bergen following a similar provision in Section 14 of the former Primary School Act. We now have two applications for recognition as a primary international school in Norway under consideration. There are also a number of international schools in Norway that have not yet applied to the Ministry for formal recognition. I expect that this may be related to the entry into force of the Training Act only on 1 August 1999 and that the schools concerned may need some time to prepare applications. In addition, I can inform you that the Ministry has not rejected any application for recognition of international school under the Training Act. If an international school applies for approval and grants under the Private School Act, the Ministry will normally have to decide whether the school meets the minimum legal requirements. The Ministry must then assess whether the school meets one of the requirements of Section 3 of the Private School Act and whether the curricula can be approved under Section 4 of the Private School Act. If the school complies with the minimum conditions, the Ministry must decide, after an overall assessment, whether the school is entitled to receive a grant, as stated in Section 25(3) of the Private School Act. Thus, the Private School Act has no specific provision for the approval of primary international school provision in Norway, and until now the Ministry has not approved any international primary school provision in Norway under the Private School Act. However, we are examining an application for approval of an international primary school under this law. That this treatment has taken time, I don't think I should take responsibility for it. I have not been in this job for so many weeks that I feel that it is my responsibility. Nor do I intend to take that procedure directly from the Parliamentary Chair. Applications under the Private School Act shall be properly processed in the Ministry. The Private School Act has an explicit legal provision on the approval of Norwegian schools abroad. These schools, with the exception of three Norwegian departments in international schools, follow Norwegian public plans. The Ministry grants grants to a number of such schools both inside and outside Europe. In addition, Norwegian nationals who are students at foreign or international primary schools in Norway or abroad may receive grants for complementary education in three disciplines: Norwegian, knowledge of Norwegian society and Christian knowledge of religious and life views. This subsidy is granted in accordance with the Private School Act and may in some cases also be granted to EEA citizens. In my view, today's primary public schools are able to accept and provide students from other countries with an adapted and equivalent school offer, either the students and their families are aiming to stay in Norway or are just staying here temporarily. In this context, I can show that students with native language other than Norwegian and Sami are entitled to an alternative training offer in the form of specific Norwegian training, native language training and bilingual vocational training until they have sufficient knowledge in Norwegian to follow the usual training in our primary public school. In the case of Norwegian nationals who are intended to reside permanently or temporarily abroad, there are, as mentioned above, a number of Norwegian schools abroad to which the Norwegian State grants a grant. Some parents may want their children to receive training at an international primary school so that they can follow the same curriculum and have the same language of instruction throughout primary school education, regardless of the country in which the family lives. I believe that § 2-12 of the Training Act, to which I have previously referred, takes that into account. The representative's salary suggests that the department's approval procedures must become more timely and relevant. I do not agree here. I point out that the department is continuously examining applications from Norwegian schools abroad and other private schools applying for approval under the private school law. Furthermore, we have a training law that is in force less than a year ago, and that includes, among other things: deals with the recognition of international primary schools. I therefore believe that today we do not have the basis to conclude that the approval procedures of the department regarding international primary school provision are not satisfactory. I can therefore end by saying that I do not see the need to amend the Education Act or the Private School Act in order to meet the challenges we face in terms of internationalisation. I share the view of the representative, that we need to ensure the greater degree of internationalisation that we see, that it is important that students and young people in Norway can speak other languages than English, and that we also facilitate families who want to move to Norway and live here for shorter or longer periods of time, but I believe that today's legislation fully respects those considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e786	I thank you for a very detailed answer, but can't completely suppress a little wonder that in such a short time in the Council of State, such a young Council of State could become so bureaucratic and adopt the bureaucratic approach and language in such a hundred percent comprehensive way. If I understood the Council of State's answer correctly, he actually believed to claim that in this area we have nothing to learn in Norway, he believed to claim that both legislation and administrative practice are completely up to date. It must be permissible for such a description of reality to constitute a fundamental disagreement. I have had the opportunity to follow the ministry's work on some individual applications – this was before the current government's time, but it plays a much smaller role in this context – and I know that among many of the fires that are trying to launch school initiatives in this country – it is in education policy as in other areas that the fires are creating something – it is a fundamental feeling that one does not get into an impermeable bureaucracy. It is not acceptable, in my opinion, that the average duration of the application for authorisation shall be from one and a half to two years. It is simply not acceptable — not in any part of public administration — and I cannot see that the professional assessments carried out are of such a complicated nature that they need to seize such a length of time. It must be possible to evaluate such applications and return an answer in a significantly shorter time. The previous Council of State here in Stortinget stated that he was concerned about the problem, and that he took the aim of shortening the processing time. Unfortunately, it did not appear that the successor considered it a problem that the processing time is as long as it is. I repeat: in my opinion, it is not a legal problem, nor is it an administrative problem we are facing; it is simply a matter of political will. Is there a need for greater diversity in the Norwegian educational system? If you want parents to also have the opportunity to send their children to e.g. the German or French school? That's what has to be the crucial question. And if you want to, it must be possible to organise a far more effective procedure and a somewhat more visionary political objective than the Council of State stated in its answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e795	I'm sorry that the representative on the payroll thought the answer was a little bureaucratic, but that's how you like to be accurate and go into detail about the rules that apply. It is fully possible in Norway to start a French school, a German school, a Japanese school, or any kind of school, if you are approved by the Training Act. I said that the procedure has taken a long time, I can hardly take responsibility for it. I have been in my job for 10 weeks – 10 weeks should at least be the minimum of a proper procedure for any school. I have inherited a number of things from the former management of the department, which we will of course try to deal with as quickly as it is proper. So the question is, is it a enrichment that we get more types of schools? Of course, it may be, but it may also be equally enriching that French children who come to Norway, or German children who come to Norway, actually enter the normal Norwegian public school and meet all the Norwegian children who go to those schools. I myself have had such guest students for shorter and longer periods in my class, and it provided a basis for lifelong friendship and contact across borders and was also linguistically enriching for the class. It may be as enriching and as diverse as placing all the Japanese children in a Japanese school, etc. Here, there are different considerations to take, and the Training Act opens, as I said, for that to happen. So the question is, should the schools be approved under the private school law, i.e. do Norwegian taxpayers have to pay for these schools? Yes, see that's another question. Schools then have to fulfil a number of other criteria under the Private School Act. The Ministry will now review this in order to see whether the criteria have been met and also whether the general considerations to be taken into account by the Ministry are present in order to be able to approve a school under the Private School Act. And I've said that I don't want to take this trial here from the Parliament's pulpit, that's what we're going to do in the department and do in a proper way. It is interesting, however, that the party that is most often very concerned about the rational use of taxpayers' money is the first to insist that different offers, which have the full opportunity to be set up on a private basis, should also receive taxpayers' money. I have to say that if we're going to get a development in general, a little independent of exactly these schools, where I'm going to have to take money from public school to pay a steady growth in different private schools, I think we're going to hit the community we've been through in this country, where kids are going to go together in school and where we have the community that that school creates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e806	The representative of Wage has in an excellent way focused on a very important part of our school system, and it goes to these international schools. But I noticed that the Council of State is once again sedentating its attitude towards private schools and parents' ability to make qualitative choices about schooling on behalf of their children. I will again recommend the Council of State to look at the Human Rights Act, which was unanimously adopted by the Storting last year and implemented immediately. If parents do not find the public school satisfactory, it should be possible under this law to choose something else. Therefore, in order to make the choice real, the personal economy and wealth of parents must not be what is crucial. And that's actually what the state council here adds up to. He clearly has a completely different interpretation that all children have the right and duty to education in Norway, and it should be free of charge, regardless of geography, faith and personal economy. This has to be able to be seen in context. What I wanted to put my finger on, however, is the possibility for French, English, German and other private schools to provide students with special education. Here you are also in a strange situation, because the law says that special education follows the child, after a single decision. But if the child who needs it, and has received special education after a single decision, is not in public school, then this right falls away. It's strange in itself. It also falls away in some contexts when schools are approved under the Private School Act, with grants, and thus to some extent are equal. This is an incredibly important supplementary question for me, not because special education, which we spend 6 billion kroner per person. years, initially and uncritically, can be said to be a good thing – because there is no assessment of it – but because a right should follow the child wherever it may be, when it is attached to the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e813	I agree with the inter-pellant on Wage that we are facing new international challenges, which also make it more necessary than before with international school services. The Christian People's Party is concerned with the increasing internationalisation and the challenges it confronts us. In a global society, language understanding and ethnic competence are important prerequisites for creating a good society. In such a society, it is important to facilitate this in schools as well. Therefore, there is a need for international provision for children and young people as early as possible, i.e. also at primary school level. It is important to meet this challenge by ensuring timely and relevant approval procedures also for this type of school. Instead of going backwards into the future, by ignoring this, the Christian People's Party is concerned that every private school applying for recognition should be guaranteed fair and proper treatment. There can be no subjective treatment based on uncritical use of judgement. You can't put the law aside. Gender must be based on the criteria of the law. International schools enrich Norwegian diversity, without jeopardising the main role of public schools. Examples of such schools are the French and German schools in Oslo and the international school in Sandefjord, which have full backing from its own municipality. It is no longer just foreign families who have an interest in such schools. There are also many Norwegian families who want to use such schools as an alternative educational offer, and then respect for parents’ choices must be shown. We must then look beyond the educational framework that we have previously approved, namely the Steiner Schools and the Montessori Schools. Ten to fifteen years ago, it was seen as quite exotic, perhaps especially, that Norwegian families went out and settled abroad, but this is no longer the case. There is a new era, and more and more people see the value of cross-border contacts. When I was a teacher at the Norwegian school in Kathmandu 14 years ago, we had to wait for letters that could take 10-12 days from Norway, or wait a whole day on a telephone line to Norway. Today the letter is received as it is sent by e-mail, or you pick up a mobile phone anywhere. It is not today about rich children, good children, Christian children, but any of the children who want or have had an international experience in this way – children have gone to school abroad and come home only for a short stay, or feel natural following an international environment. The lack of recognition of private schools meeting the technical and pedagogical requirements of the law may lead to elite schools or the exclusion of Norwegian students. School money is getting so high that only a few people can pay, and this can lead to the exclusion of Norwegian students because you have to cut the cost of these schools. Schools with an international offer are practical examples of cooperation and interaction independent of culture, ethnic origin and economic status. Schools contribute to increased mutual respect and understanding, and offers contribute to providing students with a good basis for the meeting with an increasingly international-oriented society. It wants the Christian People's Party to be in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e828	‘Internationalisation must be an important element of Norwegian education’ — it is stated in the first sentence of the Inge Wage Interpellation. 99 pst. Of the 10 minutes he used to talk about the approval of two-three private schools in Norway. He was so much the responsibility of the public school in relation to internationalization. He mentioned the position of other foreign languages in school — and the position of foreign languages in general. He was so far within the native language training. That's what went on at internationalization. So it's about the private school law again, private schools and the approval of private schools. It surprises me a lot that when we are going to discuss internationalisation in Norwegian education, we focus on a two-three private schools. I think internationalisation is important. I think it is important that we in public schools strengthen foreign languages. I think it's important that we take care of those who come into school with a different cultural background and with a different mother tongue, and that they get the opportunity to take care of their mother tongue – that we are willing in public school to stand up for them and give them training in their mother tongue. When we discussed this a while ago, the Right did not stand up for those groups – our new compatriots – that have a different mother tongue than Norwegian, so that they can take care of their mother tongue, and that they can receive training for a longer period of time than has now been provided. It's important, because they also represent a language that business and others will need to communicate with the outside world. But in the case of two schools, the French and the German schools, it becomes especially important to recognize them. I agree with the Council's assessments. I don't see the need to change the private school law. I would also like to believe that the schools we are talking about here – there are two, the German and the French schools – are at the limit of what was the intention in any case, and what is also formulated in the law, namely that it should be a religious or a pedagogical alternative. And I would have been very concerned if the Council of State used a judgement that went beyond what he had practiced earlier in approving private schools. I think there's going to be a lot of imagination to say that these schools represent a religious or a pedagogical alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e841	The allegations made by the representative Rikvam that the Right does not set up an elephant in a native language other than Norwegian are with respect to reporting rather tardy. That is not correct. But we're going to have to take that up again when Rikvam gets to explain what he thinks here. What I asked for the word was what the Council of State said in his speech on economics, where he tried to be a little ironic on the party right on its behalf. He of course stated quite correctly that the Right is busy with taxpayers' money, but then he said that when one starts an offer, then the Right comes and asks for state aid. This is turning the problem completely upside down. Those who have elephants in these schools are taxpayers and are involved in paying the public school in line with everyone else. But in addition, some of them have to be with and pay extra for the school they're going to have. Here we're dealing with a problem that we've been through over and over again: what do we want with private bullets? Nobody can refuse us to start private schools in Norway, but what's the big question is, who are these schools supposed to be for? If we don't have a system of state aid that covers important parts of the operation, we'll only have the most resourceful ones there when it's a financial asset that's capable of having its children. And it's a school battle that Right doesn't want. We want the parental right to be real. We want the private spheres to be available to all kids regardless of whether parents have good advice or not, so that if we don't have support schemes to ensure that the parental rights become real, we'll have schools that I hope and believe the council doesn't want either, simply school for a few. The option with private balls must be an open option. This is why the Right has defended these support schemes and will also defend these support schemes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e854	I am surprised that the representative, Reikvam, would have liked to have had another interpellation, which should have been something quite different from what I have been interpellating about. If he had read the text of the interpellation in advance, he would have seen it turn into exactly the specific problem that concerns a limited number of schools, but that concerns a large number of families in this country. There are also several municipalities in this country, among others. the capital – the largest and most populous of all – which has explicitly wanted a positive response from the ministry. The same is true of Sandefjord. As far as I know, this is also the case with Rolf Requam's own party, which, like the other parties, has stressed the vital importance of being accepted for this, given the needs of the municipality. And it's actually the municipality that has asked the private school to take on the task. This means that in such a case one must at least be able to ignore its allergies to anything that comes close to the adjective ‘private’. When the municipality asks a private school institution to solve a problem on behalf of the municipality, it would be thought that socialists too can accept it. I also have to say that it surprises me that, over and over again, you come across the very primitive economic argument about taxpayers, as if the same students who choose an alternative would have been free for taxpayers if they had gone to public school. It's economically a pointless argument. It's also a profoundly unfair argument, at my discretion, because in consequence it just leads to what the sitting government and the Workers' Party have always been against, namely social differences and social elite schools. If you want social selection schools, the recipe is just to say that it gets parents to pay for themselves, no matter what it costs, because it doesn't rake the Norwegian community. That's the same thing as saying that e.g. the French and German schools do not necessarily have to be elite schools in a professional sense, but they must be reserved for the Norwegian families with a strong enough private economy to afford to choose such an alternative. This is at my discretion to go backwards into the future. And I have to say that it disappoints me that the Council of State is not interested in going further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e861	I note that the representative Wohnning believes that the argument about taxpayers' money does not sound as good when there are parties other than his own that use it; the right has almost evolved it into a mere beginning to use that argument in any context. And that's a relevant argument, because we have to be very aware of what we're using the limited public resources to which we have to use for education here in the country. For this reason, the Private School Act has clear rules on which schools are to receive support and it has a narrower approach than the Training Act, which applies to the recognition of schools without public support. Therefore, the diversity under the Training Act is free, but slightly narrower compared to whether it is taxpayers who have to pay. And I don't think it's any pedagogical or diverse minus that children from different countries come into Norwegian public school and join the vast majority of children in Norway who go to that school. The representative Scarbøvik from the Christian People's Party shows that she has had children in the Norwegian school in Kathmandu, which I think is excellent. And it probably got some support from Norway, too, I expect. But if that school was supported by the local authorities, were the taxpayers in Kathmandu paying for that school? I'm more uncertain about that. And the same is true when Inge Wohnung integrates foreign policy considerations into this issue. We need to take our educational policy assessment from a holistic educational policy perspective. Then, of course, we'll be able to get different countries' school systems into Norway through the Training Act, if they make an offer that meets those requirements, but there's no requirement for it to be the public education money to be used for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e869	As a result, the interpellant debate has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e883	In ‘Tanks and vision’ in 1878, Arne Garborg said the following: ‘It helps corky timetables older instructions age some things; what makes the school what he is, it’s the teacher.’ 120 years later, extensive research shows about the same thing, we have come to the same conclusion, that teachers are the only single factor that clearly affects the quality of teaching and its results. This context is shown in several places and is thoroughly documented. In a study carried out at the Högskulen in Buskerud and the edition in the Evening Post on 26 September 1999, there are among others. found completely ready: 30 pst. the difference in grades between the best and the worst secondary schools can be explained by how well education and training teachers have. A clear and positive link has been established between the level of competence of teachers and the performance of their students. The same survey also shows that there are very large differences in the level of education among teachers in the Norwegian secondary school. When it relates to the part that has lecturer competence, it varies between 15 and 77 pst. – a great variation. In addition, the Teachers' Association has looked closely at the age sentence and the recruitment of lecturers, and well over half of the full-time lecturers in secondary schools are over 50 years old. I don't want to say anything wrong about the age group that I belong to, but there's very little to bet on, at least completely, in the future. Recruitment is a problem. Especially bad is it in some disciplines, very worst in some of the real flags. The number of realists with major subjects who accepted practical education at our four universities in 1999, was in biology twelve, in chemistry four, in mathematics three, in physics three and in computer science zero. This covers far from the need for new lecturers to maintain today's situation, and we should have the ambition not only to maintain the level we have today, but also to increase the number of lecturers for years to come. So there's a clear picture of a continuing school with too few teachers today, the age of those we have, and very poor recruitment of new ones, especially in real science. And then we should have had a stronger feature of lecturers in the basic school, where today we only have approx. 1,700 who have lecturer skills, a large part of them in the youth school, but they make up a very small part of the total teacher's mass. When we connect the two findings I sketched above, that the number of lecturers means a lot to learning, and that we see a failure in recruiting a teacher's profession, there is reason to worry, not because other groups cannot do a very good job, but so clear when it comes to the relationship between the level of knowledge, the formal competence of the teachers and the results of the teaching, should be a serious awakening of thoughts that we, as adults, cannot ignore. In Document No: 8:8 for 1999-2000, the Right addressed these issues, and we encourage the Storting to stimulate the recruitment of lecturers by improving the funding of studies for practical education. In a letter to the Church, Education and Research Committee dated 23 February this year, State Council Lilletun points out that the Government has undertaken to look at what can be done specifically in the fields of mathematics and physics. He did not overlook the fact that one in that context would also be able to consider improvements in the study funding scheme as an instrument. In the interaction I travel today, I have chosen not to focus specifically on the study funding, since it was the topic of debate quite recently, but I want to ask the question a little bit more open. There are several possible options. Can it be e.g. think that one can go back to practical education for half a year instead of one year? Can it be better to allow more people to benefit from the provision of practical education in addition to regular work? And do the councils have any other thoughts about recruiting lecturers to Norwegian school for years to come? I hope that the Council of State shares my view and the Right's view that this is an important matter. If the Right's view doesn't make any impression on the Council of States, which I may sometimes have a suspicion, I would remind you that partisan Thorbjørn Jagland pronounced on School Focus No. 13 in 1999 that it must clearly be an objective that it should pay to become a lecturer at school, so that people with a primary education do not choose career paths other than the school. Maybe Jagland goes a little far. It's clear that people with a major field must also be able to choose another profession, but at this very point I agree with Jagland: we need to get more of those with a high level of knowledge professionally, to take a pedagogical course, so that we can benefit from them in Norwegian school, both the individual student and the whole community. I'm very excited to right the Council of State's view of whether he agrees with us that it's especially important to recruit teachers with majors to the school ahead. And if the answer is yes, I guess I'm so excited about how he wants to help us achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e928	Let me first put to death a possible myth that I should not be responsive to Høre's play in school policy, as the representative Løvik here suggested. On the contrary, I always listen with great interest to what the Right says in education policy, partly because the Right has a great commitment to education policy with strong opinions, but first of all because I very often disagree with those opinions and thus the discussions with the Right contribute to sharpening my own position and also to critical questions to my own policy. So that's why it's often a great pleasure to listen to the Right in school policy, even though we very often disagree. On the other hand, we are not dealing with the matter that the interpellant is dealing with today. I interpret the interpellation of the representative Løvik as being of quality at school. So am I. In my educational policy statement to the Stortinget on 4 May this year, I made a strong point of Norwegian education. I stressed that the demand for quality would be governing my education policy and that of the Government. The quality of teachers is one of the most important keys to quality in school. I therefore agree with the representative Løvik that the school needs highly qualified teachers. It is important that we work actively both to ensure the recruitment of the teaching profession and to ensure that skilled teachers who are in the profession are able to continue as teachers. The majority, as the representative Løvik was also involved, dealt with a recruitment message in the spring with a number of measures to get more and more qualified teachers. And as I have said before from this pulpit, the government will work actively to follow up the goal of better teacher recruitment. The representative Løvik is particularly concerned with measures to ensure more lecturers, i.e. teachers with primary education at school. As Løvik himself says, Stortinget rejected earlier in our Right-wing proposal on solutions in the field of study finance, especially for teachers with a main subject. I share Løvik's view that it is important to have teachers also with majors in school. However, I would like to add that the primary thing is to ensure that teachers in the school system have the professional and educational background required in the various educational situations. Within this main objective, it is natural that we also carefully assess the relationship between access to and need for primary teachers. Many believe that higher pay for teachers is the solution to a failure of recruitment. I also believe that pay is important, but I am also convinced that good access to teachers depends on far more factors than just wages. Conditions related to the working environment, working conditions in general and to the search and capacity of teacher training also have an impact. In recent days, there has been a relatively high focus on the future pay of teachers. So far, at least we have come to a tariff settlement in the state that the parties have recommended, and I hope that the step-up plan for the teachers that we are now to chisel out will prove to have the effect on the level of pay of the teachers that many have requested. At the same time, I would like to remind you that local addendum authorities are setting tariffs per year. On 1 May last year, a new and freer position was created to use wages as an instrument to secure the desired teachers. Both the Storting and the Government are concerned with the working environment and working conditions at school. In addition to the responsibility of the State in this field, local school owners are responsible for monitoring work environment issues at individual schools. Any changes in laws and regulations that ensure the working environment of students will be addressed in other contexts. As far as the working environment of teachers is concerned, the Ministry is now cooperating with the Municipal Councils of Central and Eastern Europe to re-establish a separate survey of the working environment of teachers into the large living conditions survey of the Statistical Centre in 2001. In addition, I would like to mention that every year the Department submits to the Stortinget proposals for significant State efforts in the field of continuing training for teachers. For a long time, there has been an objective of increasing the educational capacity of practical education in order to make it easier for people with a main qualification and cand.mag.-grade to acquire teaching skills. From 1998 to 1999, the admission of both universities and colleges to practical education increased. In the current academic year, about 1,650 students have been registered in this course. Practical and pedagogical training is also provided as part of the cand.mag. degree. From 1998 onwards, full weight counting is provided by one-year practical education and training. For students aiming at a cand.mag. degree, the inclusion of practical and pedagogical education in the profession will involve an appropriate professional correction of the education. Recruitment of students with a main vocational background varies between disciplines and institutions. At the universities have up to 50 pst. by students in practical and pedagogical education at the main level of education. The proportion is particularly high in the linguistic and social sciences disciplines. On the other hand, there are particular challenges related to recruiting teachers from some real-life subjects. Therefore, several projects have been launched at the Technical and Natural University of Norway, NTNU, to strengthen the recruitment of candidates from the real sciences to practical education. In recent years, the proportion of students in practical and pedagogical education with such a background has increased. A national centre for the recruitment of mathematical, natural and technological subjects has recently been established, added to NTNU. One of the main objectives of the Centre is to increase the recruitment of teachers with real-time competence. Over the Ministry's budget, funds were allocated to this Centre in 2000. Finally, I will get back to the recruitment message. The treatment of the Great Britain will be followed up by the Government. In addition, the Government will also facilitate greater freedom for each school to organise work and working hours, including: to provide room for more local development work and better room for the creativity of the individual teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e954	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to thank the Council of State for the good words he sent about Right as an active party in education policy. The joy he has in discussing it with us, we also have when we discuss it with others. But the hope is that a little more of what we say will be put into practical action in the department, and not least in the Norwegian school. What was said about quality is one of the areas where we have a way to go to Norwegian school. There is a lot of good work done in Norwegian schools today, but there are great opportunities for improvement, and this may be especially true in general education, where the lack of a lecturer will gradually make the most impact. We need highly qualified teachers. It's Gishe's agreement. He mentions the recruitment message, he mentions that our proposal for changes in student funding was rejected – it was attached to the protocol, and there is certainly a small shade, if not otherwise – and he mentions the pay question. But the Council of State avoided answering at least some of the questions that I raised in the interpellation, namely whether he agrees with Right that there is a special need to get learning skills into the secondary school, and also in parts of the elementary school, with a higher professional competence, i.e. the main subject of practical and pedagogical education in addition. To put it simply, is it desirable for more lecturers to enter the school? I would like to have a confirmation that he is on the line with us there. Then he also avoided answering my question as to whether it might be appropriate to cut down on practical education from one to half a year. Remember, when a student is finished with a main course, he can go to work. The alternative to going straight to work is to take a year more with educational education to enter the education system as a teacher. Then this is a very high barrier. It was also noted that some measures were being taken at both NTNU and other sites to try to stimulate more people with real skills for the teaching profession. As I was in the interpellation, perhaps the biggest problem is that much of the learning resources are over 55 years old. But I would like to have a little bit more in-depth on this: how important is my government council to the lecturers? And how can you work with the practical education and funding of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e967	I can repeat that I think it is important to have teachers with a major in the Norwegian school. It is important to have the professional competence they represent in their own teaching, but it is also important in view of the professional weight that they can add to a collective college of teachers in a school. That is where I think the representative, Mr Løvik, and I do not disagree very much. So for recruiting teachers with a main subject. I don't really think there are so many different steps to take to recruit teachers with a major, and what it takes to recruit other skilled teachers for school. I think there's a lot of the same tools left for both of these groups. Many of these instruments have been reviewed in the context of the recruitment notice. Wages and salaries are of course important. I think that the payroll that we got in the port last week can contribute, and also the escalation plan that we are going to go into in cooperation with the teacher organisations for a period to come in the next three years. I think the working conditions in school are important. I think having good schoolrooms, having good equipment and having a good working environment also stimulates that more people want to get into the teaching profession, but perhaps most of all that teachers want to stay in the profession once they've become teachers. There are also a lot of other measures in the recruitment notice, which I was in the main post – I don't have to repeat everyone here. But we fully agree that this is important. So whether the practical educational training should have been extra supported by the Loan Fund or other measures that the representative Løvik is involved in. I think that you can now take practical education with full weight counting as part of your cand.mag. degree, can help more people choose this profession, because then it won't be an addition, then it won't be on top of all the other subjects you take to achieve your degree. Then it becomes part of the total education that you take at the university. That, I think, would be a useful contribution to the fact that more people from the university take practical education, and thus qualify to enter the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e980	The Progress Party was in the majority voting against the Right-wing proposal in Document No. 8:8 for 1999-2000. However, we would like to stress that the professional level represented by teachers with majors, lecturers, is very important to ensure in school; it is important to ensure that we have the necessary grasp of these kinds of teachers. If we are to do this, we must ensure that the school is an attractive job, as these people see as an alternative to the rest of the labour market. In this context, we have the most faith in general measures that can make school this attractive job. However, we will not categorically reject any specific action in terms of the group. The right proposes a shortening of practical education. This is something that should definitely be considered. The Council of State points to actions already undertaken in relation to real science and recruitment from this working group. We will not reject it either. However, we think it should be pointed out that there are many reasons why teachers in general, teachers in particular, might not apply to school. It could be that you're startled at the still negative focus around the school in the social debate. There may be other reasons, such as: not recognized in the organisation, content, pay and staff policies of schools. The party wants to increase the attractiveness of the school as a job by increasing the professional pride of the teacher group. This will once again be able to increase recruitment, we think. The Progress Party calls for a stricter evaluation of school activities and for the liberalisation of the protection against dismissal. School will never be an attractive job if it is such that anyone can get a job at school and remain in school out of life. We also believe that there is a need to facilitate a pay system that motivates qualified people to apply for the teaching profession and to remain in the profession. Earlier in this room I have referred to studies carried out by the Market and Media Institute, which show that a majority of today's youth are negative to enter professions where individual performance and capacity are not presented. It is therefore necessary to create a flexible pay system that rewards extra effort and knowledge. The party believes that a free and flexible school with positive competition will increase the attractiveness of the school as a workplace. In addition, we need to make the necessary corrections, so that we ensure calmness and order at school and reintroduce what the teacher seems to have lost in authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e995	I experience this interpellation coming a long way as a general debate about recruiting for the teaching profession. But, like the interpellant, the Christian People's Party also wants teachers with a major in Norwegian school. The main subject is a professional depression that the school needs. They're needed in high school, and we also need them in high school. The Mjøs Committee has made proposals to change the degree structure of higher education. They propose that Norway adapt to international standards with master’s degree studies in accordance with a 3+2 model. The main subject is maintained, but the old teacher training is reduced by one year. I have noticed that the leader of the Teachers' Association warns against such a change. I am not of those who believe that the threat to the teacher in Norwegian school lies primarily in the proposal of the Mjøs Committee. It would actually be a little interesting to challenge the Right and the interpellant on the problem of the teacher and the effect on the teacher in school. I feel that the challenge is not to get young people to take a major course either. The challenge is to make the primary school trainees choose the school as a job. We are faced with an urgent challenge in recruiting teachers with a major in real science. In order to make the school more attractive as a workplace for lecturers, more measures are needed. The size has just addressed a big message about teacher recruitment, and several measures here are also relevant for the recruitment of lecturers. One of the measures is a competitive wage. This year's pay bill also signals that a more differentiated pay system will be negotiated. It is a development Christian People's Party will support. Negotiations on the working time agreement are also open, and there is a trend that the majority of the Grand Duchy wants. The Workers' Party has now also come to this point. Here, in fact, the Council of State has turned the Labour Party's policy around. It is also important that teachers and lecturers have the freedom to organise their work and to have working hours available for, among other things. giving room for more local development work and more space for the creativity of the individual teacher. The Christian People's Party has for a long time said that we need to strengthen the professional teacher. We can do this by relieving some social educational tasks and administrative tasks, so that the teacher and the teacher can concentrate on the subject. We can also help by organising continuing vocational training. Sabbath years will also be measures that will help here. I think we should also look at the teacher's actual education and look at how school-oriented this is. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1006	The President will ask the representative to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1009	The representative of Lyngstad is probably right in saying that it is not the Mjøs election that is the greatest threat to the recruitment of teachers with teaching skills to the Norwegian school of the future. But let me remind you that the Mjøs Committee itself points out that any change in the degree structure of universities will require a new study of the role of universities as teacher education institutions. And that's one of the things that I hope the Council of State will follow up, because at my discretion, a review of teacher training – that's both general and university teacher training – is highly required if we're going to be up to the challenges of the future. On the right, the concrete proposal referred to by the interpellant was promoted in the context of the teacher recruitment message. It was rejected by the majority on the grounds that selective measures are in principle opposed. And I understand that. On the other hand, if the problem is of a selective nature, only selective measures can be taken to solve it. And I was not able to hear from the Council of State in and of itself kind answers to the mention of a single operational action, a single practical measure that can actually help to increase the recruitment of candidates with a major in real science to the Norwegian school of the future. The critical point today is that in most cases, the person who has completed a major vocational training programme has already financed a five- to six-year education, and he is facing the choice of either going out in a working life where the demand for such candidates is increasing, where pay offers are very attractive, or choosing to finance another year of study in order to be allowed to enter a low-paid profession. You have to be very idealistic to pick the last one. And that's at this point I'd like to challenge the Council of State to get close to the operational level in its final post. If there is no majority in favour of using the study funding scheme as an instrument, the option must be, at my discretion, for example. be committed to a few years of contract as a lecturer in school, a system whereby an additional depreciation of study debts is offered. What is absolutely certain is that the recruitment crisis in the case of real-time lecturers is not solved through good wishes, it has to be operationally handled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1018	There is a broad consensus that the school needs teachers with heavy professional depression, as well as teachers with major qualifications. It's important to get underlined. I was still a little worried about this interpellation, because it could easily trace off. And I probably also feel that Inge Wohnning's posts were on the way to tracking off, because he said that selective problems need to be solved by selective measures. But this is not a selective problem. That's the actual ratio. We need teachers in general at school. Up towards 7 pst. of those who teach, lack formal education. That's the actual ratio. Therefore, we need to use the tools that can work. And I'm a little surprised at the council because in many ways he's a little vague about the tools that we know can work to recruit more people to school. We have something that we know works both from theoretical models and from experience, and it's using pay as a tool, using it as a tool. That's what we have, and we can use that. Then I talk generally in relation to the teacher groups. That means that we have to take a force in relation to a general wage rise. I feel that in the case of the negotiations we have had now, as I experience it and am familiar with, we are on the right track. I feel that the department has taken the signals that Stortinget sent in connection with the recruitment message. We have not received all the answers yet, we have not done so, but I feel that you are about to give some answers. I hope that the further negotiations and discussions with the organisations will provide the answers pointed out by the Stortinget: wages and greater local freedom to organise the school day in order to develop a more exciting school, a school that can compete with others on the labour force. So that means we have to use is pay. So a little comment on what Petter Løvik played out at the end of his post, whether we can look at the practical-pedagogical education. I think Petter Løvik was on an important topic. I think we should also look at practical education, and whether we can shorten it to six months. I then assume that part of the professional education part goes into the subject itself, into the vocational training course. If we can get such a combination – I felt that the Council of State was also in on it – then I think we can see if we can't cut down the practical-pedagogical education for half a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1028	I have just attended a conference on IT crime this morning, where the IT development was described as a backstop. One of the top people who presented it said this would be part of people's everyday lives, and it's not that dangerous if they don't understand why it is. But if you're going to translate IT, and not least the communication on data and mobile phones into Norwegian, you use encryption, and behind encryption is math. Then it's very important to realize so much math that you don't get excited about evolution, but you feel that this is what you're curious about. I feel that this is what lies behind the case of the representative, Løvik, who is travelling. He's occupied with a school, also a high school, where the teachers, in this case the teachers, are so well educated that the students realize that they can do so much that the teachers themselves are excited about what they can do. This world eventually becomes full of people who can press a key, read a sentence and repeat the sentence to others. This is called a reading, even if you read it on a screen. However, to look at something on a screen, see if what it says is right or wrong, requires a type of depression, and the representative has it as his main concern. Then you also have to return to respect for subjects, and then there's another meeting that comes before me, the meeting with the dean for all those who are going to train realists in Norway, at Svalbard of all places, where they talked to us and said that one of the big problems is that the teachers can't get enough enthusiasm for the students, because the knowledge base is too shallow. This is completely elementary. The teachers who have made an impression on me could do so much that I remained silent. Then I became curious, and then I wanted to get hold of it. Those that I had the feeling of just having a pile that they turned around, I mentally disconnected and kept on with something else even though I was sitting on my desk or where it was now. I don't think there's a big difference between that and that except that we now have a generation in front of us that through modern information technology gets access to a lot of knowledge. They expect, of course, to meet teachers who master it, but who also have such depths behind it that they can spark an enthusiasm. Then it is my great concern that there is such a strong failure in general teacher education in primary school in terms of good enough quality, but especially in secondary school, both in real science and in foreign language subjects – we are in general. If we don't get to do anything about it, we're not going to get anywhere. I think there are two important instruments. One took up the representative Rikvam. It's to talk so clearly about the salary of academics, which I agree with Reikvam that the Council of State has begun, that one now takes inward that our time proletariat is a disguised research assistant who stands at a university with a lice wage and conducts basic research, or it may be a teacher who struggles to stay up, it's no longer the man of the past who stood and cost the street every night. If you understand that and revisit respect for subjects, you'll get on with it. Respect for subjects must be restored so that it shines, and wages must be raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1037	The representative, Reikvam, said to others that several of these issues are general for all teacher recruitment. That's to some degree true. There are a lot of things we recognize from the teacher recruitment message we handle for approx. Three months ago. But the representative Rikvam went further on this road. He said something like that is the number of teachers, the total recruitment of teachers, which is the biggest problem. Here I must say that I disagree with the representative, because it is the quality of the teachers that is the most important, and that it will be important to raise for years to come. The evaluation of reform 94 shows, although not everyone likes to admit it, that in any case in the general field of study it has been a reduction of the professional level in the period following reform 94. I don't think there's any doubt about that after the debate we had in the fall about that matter. Just what the representative, Mr. Dørum, had to say, to return to respect for subjects, to return to that respect for subjects and to the enthusiasm for subjects that one needs to become a good intermediary, is a key point for us in saying that there must be some selective measures here. Lyngstad was concerned about the quality of the lecturers with a new degree structure. Obviously, with shorter education, there may be a problem, but I don't think we should view this as a main problem. I think we want to find solutions, but the problem of the length of practical education remains, and that has not yet been commented by the Council of State. On the other hand, a couple of other articles have given support to the thoughts that I have made about this. There has been a lot of goodwill here, and I think most people realize that these issues are something we need to address. I would like to challenge the Council of State on these issues and the concerns we have for the lecturers, and ask specific questions. Could it be appropriate to take the initiative to shorten practical education? Can it be relevant to stimulate more part-time in addition to full-time work, and is it also relevant to assess study funding in relation to practical education?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1048	Let me first say that I am glad that there is such a broad consensus that we must have the professional competence and depth that teachers with the main subject represent, and that we still stand together here in the house in relation to what was the conclusions of our recruitment message. I think what we got into with the teachers last week, the plan we're going to go into, can provide the payroll basis we need to recruit good teachers and keep the good teachers in school, and not least give an atmosphere and a situation in cooperation between those responsible for the school, and the teachers who allow us to market the profession as the interesting and exciting profession that it actually is to be a teacher. So to the more specific questions that the interpellant and others have been dealing with. First of all, I would like to say that in dealing with the position of the Mjøs Committee and what is to be followed up there in relation to the degree structure, the length of the study, etc., it is obvious that the question of teacher training in relation to higher education is also included. What kind of impact it has on the composition of the teacher’s study, how it is to be transformed in relation to practical education, we get back to. But it's quite natural that this is an integral part of that discussion. In the case of changes in study funding, treatment in the Storting was not available for that long ago. It is certainly right, as Mr Løvik says, that the proposal was annexed to the Minutes and not rejected. There is no insignificant difference between that, but the reality is that it was not adopted, and that at least for a time it has been clarified. I'm going to do my job to help the school have the professional incentive to have teachers with the main subject. I fully share what Odd Einar Dørum says from this pulpit that teachers with a professional depth also often have an enthusiasm for their subject that is perhaps far more important than many other pedagogical approaches, because it infects the students both in the form of commitment and curiosity. Not least, it is also important to have a person in a college of teachers who can be a professional supporter and a partner for other teachers. So I think this debate has shown that there is still a broad consensus both on the professional requirements we are going to make for those who are going to teach children and young people, and also on the importance of the teaching role in the Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1061	That being the case, it is no. 6 ready-to-use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1075	I've been tempted for the past few weeks to think that it must be difficult for some workers' party representatives to have two thoughts in their heads at once, at least to get them linked together in the practical policy. The new Labour Party government seems to have major problems in seeing the relationship between different parts of the policy, at least as far as the signals they send out are concerned. Both the country's Municipal Councillor and the country's prime minister, we really have to expect to have two thoughts in our head at once and to see the relationship between the work done by the Minister of Finance and the leadership of the Councils on the policies and choices of the municipalities. In the case of property taxes, it doesn't seem to be a fact. In the context of the Municipal Council of the CEECs, the Council of State signalled that the municipalities that did not have property taxes should now introduce it. At least they must not complain about the local economy until they have introduced property taxes. This was repeated by the Council of State at the time of the submission of the Community economic proposal. From the county meeting of the year a few days ago, it is reported that the prime minister sent the same signals on property taxes as the municipal minister has done. The government seems to have a crusade to impose property taxes throughout the country. It's a paradox when the property tax is one of the few remaining parts of local self-government. So this is the municipality's own decision-making room, the only decision-making space that they have left for tax, and that's the decision-making space that the government is now invading in a much more active and pressing way than the former governments have done. The people think the signals are clear. They shall focus on what is called the ‘will’ to generate own income — translated into practical policy: the introduction of property taxes in the allocation of discretionary means and the treatment of municipal budgets in the years to come. Most statesmen take up these relationships with the municipalities these days, with a few honourable exceptions. I have registered that the County of Westfold believes that this is an area of local self-government that they should not interfere with. I have also previously registered that the County Council in West Agder has the same position, and that he has therefore not wanted to enter into this relationship directly in conversation with the municipalities. But what's a bigger problem with what's going on right now is that municipalities are treated differently. There are no common guidelines. There is no legal basis for what you're doing, and it's still probably the case that this country is governed by law, and then it's the law, the law, the law isn't leading in budget notes or other places. The local People's Government is currently being tried by officials who are based on government signals. Another paradox is that the municipalities that are now under the most severe pressure of the Council of State are municipalities that have experienced that in recent years collapse decisions have deprived them of large income, first through the removal of company taxes, and then the same municipalities are pushed towards the introduction of property taxes. And the paradox is that the business community in these municipalities, which has already contributed heavily through their share of corporate tax to the municipality's economy, feels that because what they already pay into taxes has been deducted from the municipality, the municipality must introduce taxes on works and uses, i.e. the business sector, which in turn leads to an increase in the burden on business. There is a significant need to clarify what the home really is. There is a need to ensure that this is done in relation to a discussion of property taxes in a legal context. Thus, when the municipalities are to be imposed, this must be done through treatment in Stortinget, not through signals given only through government governance documents via the county officials. And it is important to ensure equal treatment in this area. In the context of the presentation of the municipal economic proposition, Professor Rattsø was out and raised expectations of high incomes towards the municipality. It was about 20 billion in income that municipalities could include in connection with property taxes. Well, it's good to know that the 20 billion in that case would be paid by someone. But even more important is knowing that it might not be like that at all. In fact, we have made decisions in this room, which means that in the years to come the municipalities cannot expect to get very much property tax, especially on the housing tax. The paradox is that while this pressure is going on from the Government, no one knows what the property tax will give the municipalities in the future, because the entire tax system relating to properties and housing and property tax are changing. Since the spring of 1997, the Ministry of Finance has been working on this. And that's where I find it hard to see that you can have two thoughts in your head that you can coordinate, before you speak from the Government. The core element of what has been put in place as the leadership of the new housing tax system is a settlement that was concluded between the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, a settlement on which the central government laid the foundations for the work they were going to do, a settlement I assume that – and I have seen signals from the Minister of Finance – the further work on the tariff system will form the basis. This agreement will result in much less income for municipalities, if what was promised before the 1997 elections is correct. Then there is also the pressure that is going on very unfairly. The agreement is based on the rapporteur's, the hobby architect and the survey manager Per Olaf Lundtigen's own assessment system, where it was initially said that under his accounting rules a standard dwelling of 150 m2 would be exempt from various taxes on housing in the years to come. There should be tax exemptions in terms of value added tax, property taxes and property taxes, and this housing tax system should form the basis for all three types of taxation. Part of us said that it's too good to be true, at least when the Workers' Party was in the deal – we don't believe it until we see it. This may be why the State Councils of the Labour Party do not have problems not taking this into account, they do not intend to implement it as it was said. But if they are to be believed in the agreement they have entered into, this in practice means that much of the municipality's income from property taxes will disappear. At the same time, it would be entirely illogical for a municipality to know that a new tariff system can be introduced within a period of one to three years, today to initiate tariffing according to the law under which they can apply the one-off tax law. The money they want to spend today on taxiing will be money out through the window, if there's now a new charging system. In any case, I have registered that the Minister of Finance of Dagbladet, in connection with the presentation of the revised national budget, says that he is planning to present this during the autumn. In that case, we are in a situation where the municipalities are forced to implement decisions that they do not know the financial consequences of in the future. They are also forced to take decisions on, and possibly start-ups, charging for a system in which the taxation rules will change, and a national tax system instead of a tax system, such as today, with a high degree of voluntaryity attached to the individual municipality, but where the framework for it is provided for in the Single Market Tax Act. Therefore, the Right believes that the Minister of State should give the reverse signal to the statesmen today, namely that municipalities that do not have property taxes and will therefore incur costs related to the introduction of property taxes through taxing, should stop that work until the Storting has been dealt with with the premises for property taxes and for the entire housing tax. The design of this on the basis of the agreement based on Lundtigen's model was such that the property tax to the municipalities was primarily to be based on so-called large dwellings, but should be socially thought about. The question, of course, is how much credibility this agreement will gradually have. But if that is the case, it will mean that the majority of the municipalities of the country probably have no more than a handful of dwellings that will be taxed, or will have a basis for property tax. In practice, the implementation of the new tax system will result in the likely cost of taxing more than the income that the municipality will receive in the future. The paradox is that while one has argued to remove e.g. corporate tax due to a disproportionate distribution effect, property tax will in the future have a disproportionate distribution effect with such a tax system because it will only be those municipalities that have extra rich people with large dwellings who receive some special income from this property tax. And although many believe that there are many kingdoms in Norway, there are still relatively few. It's possible the gain goes up in the spin. I think the Council of State should comment on these matters and give a clearer signal to the statesmen, and give a clear signal to the Stortinget about where the road goes in relation to property taxes for the municipalities, and not least to provide a better basis for imposing property taxes on the municipalities than is currently the case, as homes are not given in the form of laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1109	Municipalities may levy property taxes in accordance with the rules of the Property Tax Act. In 1999, half of the municipalities in the country used this possibility to collect property taxes. Municipalities may issue property taxes on properties in built-up districts and on works and uses. This means that there are some municipalities that cannot levy property taxes. Other municipalities may do so but choose not to avail themselves of this possibility of income. Property tax is a voluntary municipal tax, by which local politicians can decide their own use. However, I find it necessary to stress that poor-economy municipalities and inadequate welfare services have to take on seriously the economic potential of using property taxes. In the interpellation, the representative Erna Solberg stated that the property tax should not be deducted from the assessment of state transfers to the municipalities. This ratio was assessed by Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the municipal economicproposition for 2000. In the proposition, this is referred to as follows: «The income-balancing subsidy in the income system covers only taxes on income and wealth of municipalities. Taxes on ownership, concessional income and ownership income are among those income which, for that reason, is not included in the basis of the income-balancing grant. The guidelines state that this does not prevent the judges from taking such revenues into account in an overall assessment of the finances of municipalities.’;» In its attitude to this proposition, a Joint Municipal Committee states that it has taken note of the statement made by the Government on the criteria for the award of discretionary grants. In the setting, a minority, from the Advance Party and the Right, opposes the effect of the level of taxes and property taxes on the award of the discretionary grant. I interpret this in such a way that the majority of the Committee supports current practice, where property taxes as a voluntary tax are not included in the basis of the income-balancing grant in the income system; however, when allocating discretionary means, property taxes may be included in an overall assessment. I am committed to distributing the state transfers to the municipalities in the fairest possible way. This includes, inter alia: that all municipalities are entitled to be treated equally in the discretionary awards, regardless of whether they charge property taxes or not. A municipality with a property tax may retain its discretionary assets even if it has a better local economy or a better service offer than non-property tax municipalities. Similarly, a municipality without property tax cannot expect the State to enter into increased transfers to cover the income to which it has declined by not having property tax. The Ministry of Local Affairs receives from municipalities from time to time requests for increased state transfers because the municipality has financial problems. The general rule is that discretionary means can be allocated only on the basis of circumstances over which the municipality itself does not have control. Exceptionally, however, additional discretionary means may be given to a municipality asking for help to come out of a difficult economic situation for which it is responsible. In such a situation, I see it as reasonable whether the State assesses whether the municipality exploits its own income base before increasing transfers are made. The municipality's income from property taxes includes, inter alia: depending on the tax base, i.e.: the valuation value of the property. In the interpellation, the representative of Solberg claims that municipalities that are now charging will risk spending on taxiing being wasted. The interpellation refers to the fact that the entire tax system on property taxes on dwellings is undergoing change. This, of course, is the entire government aware of. The Ministry of Finance is working on following up the 1996 decision of the Swedish Property Tax Committee on a new law on property taxes. The committee proposed, inter alia: that the Equation values should also be used as a basis for the issuing of property taxes, but provided that a revision of the tariff base for different types of properties has to be carried out. In the follow-up work, there is a need to see the property tax in conjunction with the other parts of the tax system. The rules for charging, inter alia: residential and recreational property will also be of central importance in the design of new rules. It has therefore been considered appropriate to await the detailed design of new property tax laws until these issues are resolved. No decision has been taken as to when proposals for new property tax laws will be promoted for Stortinget. However, the aim is to propose a new tax system for housing and leisure properties to the Storting during this year. It will be assumed that the new tax system will also be the starting point for the issuing of property taxes, cf. the assumptions of the majority of the financial committee's position in 1997 on housing taxing and housing tax principles. As can be seen, uncertainties relate to the length of time that the applicable tax rules will have as a basis for taxing property of different types of property. It has to be assumed that the applicable rules will continue to be applied beyond the property tax year 2001. It must also be taken into account that the new tax system will cover only residential and leisure property. For other properties there will still be a need for tariffs set on a different basis than what I have now mentioned. The tax collection also examined the properties to be included in the property tax. The selection was of the opinion that the property tax should initially cover all real estate in a municipality and not be limited to properties in built-up premises and works and uses. The government will assess this question target in the further follow-up to the decision of the Property Tax Committee, as we see that the current legislation can be problematic today. That's why there's a lot of talk that you should change it at this point. In the interview, the representative Solberg asked the question whether I would now like to take an initiative to stop the efforts of the county councillors to introduce property taxes in new municipalities before the adoption and establishment of a new tariff system. I do not see this as a current issue, as it appears that the applicable tax rules will continue to be used in more years to come. However, I am concerned that all municipalities should be treated equally with regard to the issue of discretionary means and property tax. For this reason, it may be necessary to clarify to the county councillors how to address this issue in the 2001 discretionary award process. Finally, it is not difficult for the Government to have two thoughts in its head at once, as the representative Solberg claims. When the representative claims it, it may be related to the fact that the right does not like the answers they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1146	The state councils are quite right that we don't always like the answers she gives. That's not why we believe that the government has trouble having two thoughts in its head at once. The problem is that we don't see what you're doing on the one hand, actually have consequences for how you deal with the municipalities. And I think it's weird that you just because you expect to have the same tax system in 2001, you actually think that there's enough ground to start taxing. I remember when Bergen in my time as a municipal politician had to retrace the homes in the municipality of Bergen. Then it only cost the reparation a place between NOK 100 000 and NOK 200000, so it was just a matter of repatriating the part that went on complaints and changes in part of the city. There's quite a lot of money there's going to be to tax homes. In principle, today's property tax law means that one actually goes and sets the rate of each dwelling. There's no easy way to calculate this, you just have to do that inspection and have people do it. And if there is a completely new tax system in 2002 or 2003, it means that most municipalities that adopt principle decisions to introduce property tax in autumn 2000 will have to do so in 2001, in order to base the tax rate on 2002. I do not know about a single municipality that has managed to collect money in the same year that they have decided to impose property taxes, because the taxiing takes so long. There are clear deadlines in the law on complaint handling, for example: the tariff for which the tariff is set. This means that it is quite unnatural for some municipalities to apply property taxes at this stage, when the entire tax system is under review. In addition, it is difficult, if one is to base the local economy in the years to come on a much higher income on the basis of the property tax law of today, when it is clear that the commitments made in the Central Party/Worker Party conciliation were to have much less house tax and that it will also have an impact on the amount of property tax. I think there are so many things in the air at the moment related to this that the Council of State should reconsider its position and rather say that although the Labour Party is basically for more property tax, at least you should not push the municipalities to throw money out through the windows, which is what you are doing, because in some municipalities you are afraid that you, for example, are. not to approve their borrowing next year, or because you are afraid that you need to show good will in order to be given discretionary means that you should actually get. Then I also think that the Council of State is drawing a great deal of distance. There is a difference between having guidelines that say that there is nothing to prevent the judges from taking income into account, about instructing the statesmen to take such considerations into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1161	First of all, it is not right that the government base the municipal economy on the fact that municipalities are now being pushed to collect property taxes, which are wasted on money. I'll take a distance from that. What the government and I have done during the presentation of the municipal economic proposition is that we have pointed out a potential that is in some municipalities using property taxes. We reserve the right to do that. And to re-use as an example the city we are now in, which actually does not get any particular discretionary means, and which will not be affected by any discretionary awards, there is no doubt that there is a potential – if the majority of this city wants to take money from property taxes – at a value of between 500 million. and 650 million. kr. Now it's possible that the majority of the city doesn't think it's necessary to use this on other things in this city. But I reserve the right to believe that it is a potential, which we will actually make the municipalities aware of. Then I perceive that there is a majority in the Storting that is behind the practice we have today in regard to the discretionary awards – right minus the Right and the Advance Party, who have expressed it during several discussions, also the last time it was discussed in the Municipal Committee in the Stortinget. But the rest of the political parties have said that they agree to that practice. It is important to stress that the usual transfers to the municipalities are, of course, independent of whether the property tax should be counted or not. In the case of discretionary awards, it is said, as is currently the practice, that it can be taken into account in a complete and comprehensive assessment. It's important to clarify. But I'm aware that some statesmen practice a little differently, so I see the need to be able to clarify to all the country's statesmen how this is to be understood by the 2001 discretionary award.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1172	I just want to follow up a little bit of what the council said. I attended a big - city conference here in Oslo, where the interpellant, Erna Solberg, was present. We got presented with the problems that the big cities have. There was not much disagreement at that conference on the problems of cities, mainly major drug problems, psychiatric problems – in Oslo in particular – and other things. Therefore, it is very surprising that when we in Norway's second largest city, Bergen, take in 300 million. kr in property taxes and trying to create some money themselves, they're making the opposite of it in this city, and they're taking away 600 million. kr. They're not helping to create their own resources. At the same time, the municipal economic proposition, which is actually supported by the state councils, has a capital add-on of 330 million. kr. I'm not quite excited about that supplement – we're going to assess it, so we'll see about the treatment of the local economy. But it is almost thoughtful that the state should go in with funds to a municipality that does not want to create its own funds – which we have the opportunity to do – in a range of 600 million. kr. The staggering arguments of Erna Solberg about the retakation in Bergen to NOK 200,000 do not really fit in with what Bergen takes in. I think it's a combination of a number of things, both taxing and property taxes. The starting point is that the representative Erna Solberg does not want any tax at all. But then she has to tell us in the big cities that have a problem, and in particular this city, how they should be able to participate and create values, which they have the opportunity to create through, for example. taxes on property.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1179	In Ot.prp. No 44 for 1974-75, About the Law on Property Tax to Municipalities, it is clearly stated that municipalities should be relatively free when it comes to the introduction of property tax. But the freedom referred to here can hardly be said to be particularly real any longer, as long as there is today a clear pressure from several local authorities to make maximum use of their income base before considering the allocation of any discretionary means. The extent to which property taxes could be taken into account, or must be introduced, before any discretionary award was last mentioned in St.prp. No 69 for 1998-99, Om kommunekonomien 2000 m.v. In this proposition, it states that: ‘this does not prevent the discretionary members from taking such income into account’ — the implicit property tax — ‘in a total assessment of the finances of municipalities’. This means that in practice the political majority has not considered it at all that municipalities should be relatively free to impose property taxes, as expressed in Ot.prp. No 44. Thus, the majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party and the Right, has stated here that the County is now in practice free to set the property tax as a criterion for the allocation of discretionary resources. It is, in my view, a great deal of regret that the property tax has actually become mandatory in certain situations. The party to the progress was therefore consistently opposed to the fact that the level of fees and any property tax could affect the allocation of discretionary funds from the county. However, there seems to be a current practice today where property taxes are included in an overall assessment of the allocation of discretionary assets, even if the property tax is therefore not part of the income system and is not included in the income-balancing grant. As a result, current practices are very unfortunate, both in relation to local self-determination and in relation to the past developments in the introduction of property taxes. In my view, this should have been taken more strongly as a result of the Council of State. The conclusion must therefore be that the municipalities are pressured to introduce this extremely unpopular property tax, even though – as I see it – it was originally not meant. The main point of the inter-pellant, that the Council of State should take initiatives to stop the country's further efforts to introduce property taxes in new municipalities before the adoption and establishment of a new tariff system, is widely understood in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1195	It's a fundamentally important, but quite difficult question the interpellant takes up. Because when a municipality becomes poor enough, when care for the elderly and schooling is lir, and when the municipal register is sloppy enough, many municipalities have introduced property taxes, even though it has been very important for municipalities to depend to a certain extent on the competitive model that the absence of property taxes must be for a municipality. We can therefore easily conclude that municipalities with no property tax are not as scratched as most people who have seen fit to introduce such a tax. I think the problem is that the municipalities that have introduced property taxes see that some municipalities that have not done so are in a better situation than they are in. We in the Christian People's Party agree with the interpellant that the property tax should be a voluntary municipal tax. The municipalities must have an economy that gives them a minimum of freedom of action, and therefore the Christian People's Party and Center are so concerned with improving the municipal economy, because at the end of the day this is what it is all about. I think it's the main tool for the municipalities to have the freedom that we say they should have. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the municipal minister will clarify to the statesmen – as I understand it was said here – that the common features of the municipalities are and become independent of whether or not ownership taxes are imposed. I want to appreciate that this is done in such a way that it is not hollowed out by others, superior norms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1204	Interpellant asks the Minister of State to stop the efforts of the county councillors to introduce property taxes in new municipalities before the adoption and establishment of a new tariff system. She believes it is unfortunate to put pressure on the municipalities as long as the fare system is changing. I suspect the representative Erna Solberg to sail under a false flag. She simply does not want to tax property. But I am pleased that the Right has registered that more and more municipalities are reminded by the County Council that the introduction of property taxes is an approach to ensuring budgetary balance. Then you can ask yourself, ‘Is it the county that is responsible for the state’s transfers to the municipalities, and so on, whether it is the Right or the State that has strongly contributed to the introduction of property taxes in more and more municipalities? Erna Solberg challenges the council to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It seems to me that in the Right there is a need to coordinate what two thoughts it is appropriate to have in your head at the same time. I find it quite legitimate that the county council should draw attention to the fact that the municipalities that choose not to introduce property taxes cannot expect to be distributed when it comes to the allocation of discretionary funds. It is a sought-after idea that the municipalities governed by politicians who, on a more or less principle basis, are taxing property should be compensated for by discretionary means. SV believes that property is a natural tax item. Tariffs on property will represent a relatively constant size and are therefore predictable and well suited for municipal taxation. Property taxes also have a social profile. SV also believes that the establishment of a new tariff system must be speeded up, not only because the tariff system, as it is today, is both inadequate and incomplete, but also because it is unfair. However, it is even more unfair that many do not have the opportunity to pay property taxes, and it is not only because many are waiting for clarification in terms of the tariff system itself, there are unfortunately also major problems in interpreting the law, so that a few can determine which properties can be included in a property tax decision. Our message to the Council of State therefore is that changes must be made to the property tax law of the municipalities as soon as possible so that no property is excluded from the right and the obligation to provide to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1219	I really didn't intend to participate in this interpellation change, but the post from the representative Leif Lund with the smoothing between the country's two largest cities was too tempting. I have a certain relationship with both of these cities. The representative Lund presented it as particularly commendable that the populace in Bergen have imposed as high a charge on the inhabitants as possible, and he even referred to this activity as value creation. I think that's a language that in general economic theory will be considered relatively separate. I also perceived the representative Lund there that it would be particularly useful that the elected representatives in the country's capital did not – as he said – make full use of the income potential. Yes, it is of course a possible reality that the normal thing for elected representatives should be to impose as many and as high taxes and taxes as possible on citizens. It's a reality that I for my part don't share. Citizens are not primarily taxpayers of the elected people, it is against the elected people who are servants of the citizens. However, if it is serious that we want to maintain local self-government in this country – and most people say that they do – it is very often said in practice that what is said about municipal self-government ceases to be valid at the moment when municipalities choose different solutions – and if municipal self-government has to have some meaning, municipalities must have access to choose different solutions, both on the income side and on the expenditure side of their budget. I understand that there is a general perception that we have gone far too far in overarching the municipalities, that we are ringing too much and that the freedom of choice for the elected people is therefore far too small. It is then difficult to understand that it may be a task for the Government through the statesmen to try further to narrow the freedom of action for each municipality. Fairness does not necessarily mean that everyone should go to the highest possible level of taxation. If we want to have an element of local autonomy, a city council must also have access to do with good conscience what the city council in Oslo has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1232	Property tax is a voluntary tax based on political decisions in each municipality. The centre party has as its starting point that when this is the case, it should not only be a theory, it should also be a practice. Then there is reason to ask questions about why it is that more and more municipalities consider property taxes. It does not primarily have to do with joy by printing new taxes, it has to do with the overall framework of the local government sector. There is currently no match between the tasks that the municipalities have, and the resources that are put at their disposal, whether we talk about school, health, care or culture. It's a situation that we're going to come back to in the context of the community economic proposition, but the reactions so far in relation to the proposition that is now being made are with and underline the need for an increased framework. What about the municipalities that with scarce frames say no to property taxes and ask the state for extra compensation? Recently, the Stortinget Oslo debated as a capital with its special problems, and it must be allowed to wonder that Oslo did well to say no to property taxes when they know that they could afford the funds any longer, not least for their most difficult-minded. Today, municipalities have several possibilities to draw up incomes, whether we talk about taxes, property, contracts with private companies or property taxes. At the same time, those who say no to property taxes say yes to a responsibility for solving some of the tasks themselves, and after the view of the Centre, one should not get in both the bag and the bag. But let me stress: we don't want to accept a sneaking-up of property taxes through direct calls from the statesmen. Our starting point is that we now need to focus on the frameworks, I should also like Right was and did so that we tend to have greater consistency between tasks and means. And we're behind the comment that we've been making, in a total context, and it's something other than for the individual states to challenge the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1242	Governments have in many ways responded thoroughly enough to the challenges posed by the representative Erna Solberg in the interpellation. However, when I choose to take the floor, it is based on the interesting contributions of both the representative of Meltveit Kleppa and not least the representative of Wage. When the representative Meltveit Kleppa refers to the basic framework that causes municipalities to choose to use property taxes, it is good enough. But I think it's getting a little weird when, after a little over a month in the opposition, she focuses so much on the tight frameworks under which the local government sector is subject. The central federation of municipalities has stated on several occasions that the economy of the municipal sector has never been more difficult than today, after nearly three years with the Central Party of the State Council of the Ministry of Local Affairs. I've said that before, so we have a clearing job in front of us, and we're going to do that. The representative was indignant about Leif Lund's posts. I might have expected that the pay, with its excellent background, had a greater understanding of the challenges that the representative Lund pointed out. It is precisely in this city, where, because of the weak economy of the municipality, most of the groups that fall outside society have chosen not to take priority over the tax revenue that is available through the system we already have today. So it's a very large number of low-resource groups that fall outside of the system. The municipality cannot afford the services it would like to provide for too many of these groups. I understand that Oslo has major challenges and problems that need to be solved in a specific way, challenges related to the fact that the city is a capital, and that it is, I had almost said, the only big city we have here in the country – when we look away from Bergen, who has its challenges. But it should emphasize even more that those responsible in this municipality are looking at and using what kind of income opportunities they have. The one thing that must therefore have been a wish towards the Council of State is that, when you continue to work on the problem of property taxation, you look at the basis of this tax, which the representative of the SV was also involved in, and clarify which properties should be subject to taxation, thereby stimulating fair arrangements relating to this type of taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1257	I record a strong desire from very many representatives in this Chamber to actually be local politicians here in Oslo, as they believe that they have so many good solutions to all the problems here, which is therefore the responsibility of local self-government. I think that the debate on Oslo in a way becomes a little absurd when you forget to say that the same representatives have participated in depriving the city of NOK 1 billion in income in a year – NOK 1 billion in tax revenue that the municipality had in the past and that is distributed to others. It's also the case that we have problems defining the objective criteria. I believe that the basis for the capital grant should be based to a greater extent on objective criteria than just being a compensation scheme for other things that have been excluded. I believe that the voters in Oslo get the vote on the parties that want to introduce property taxes. It should not be the mountains, those who vote for Leif Lund in Bergen, who will decide that the citizens of Oslo will pay more taxes! Perhaps the Oslo people should be allowed to decide for themselves, rather than perhaps the mountains represented by Leif Lund, to decide that choice for them. I think there's been some interesting backgames here. I have noticed that the Center Party believes it should not be a pressure. I perceived it so that even the Christian People's Party really meant it. I believe that in the context of the treatment of the municipal economic proposition, there is an opportunity to give some guidance for the premise of the county councillors on the issue. It is clear that there is an obvious pressure when both Prime Minister and Minister repeatedly mention the same issues. It does in many ways that the action space is perceived as very little for some municipal politicians. So to the question of a new tariff system, which is really a different topic, and which was the main theme of my interpellation. At the moment, there are so many changes that this is at least the wrong timing compared to putting a pressure in place. In fact, the right believes that the property tax is entirely voluntary. There are right-wing municipalities that have introduced property taxes and that believe it is important to carry out certain tasks, while others do not. In a way, we do not have any national policy on the issue of property taxes, except that there is a voluntary tax, and of course it is quite unreasonable that the state should push it in a situation where all the framework conditions are there. I think it's strange that the Center Party, since it's originally their system that is now the basis for further work, did not mention the fact that we were accused of, namely that we have a non-opposition as to whether or not to have property taxes. We were actually in favour of more property taxes for the municipalities than the Senterpartiet did, because Lundtigen's model would give so much tax relief. I think there is so much that flows in this matter, that the Council of State should think about it. At least the size should think about before we deal with the municipal economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1274	When the representative Torbjørn Andersen claims that the Prime Minister and I have said that the property tax is a potential for more revenue, it means that it has become mandatory, it is wrong. What I've said is that property tax is still a voluntary municipal tax. But it can, as the previous government also practiced, take into account when allocating discretionary funds in an overall assessment of the overall economic situation in each municipality. There is nothing new about what has been the practice up to now. The representatives Meltveit Kleppa and Apelthun Seele were involved in the municipal economy in a broader perspective. I'll get back to that soon, and we'll have plenty of opportunity to discuss it then. Then the representatives Helge Bjørnsen and Odd Eriksen raised the question of the property tax should apply throughout the municipality. It's the government's intention to go through carefully and come back to as soon as possible. I see clearly that there may be a need to make that change, but we'll get back to that. With regard to the issue of the new tariff system, the Government will come back to the Storting with a proposal to do so during the year. So to the representative, who uses the word «justice» in the sense that Oslo and others must have the freedom to decide for themselves whether to use property taxes or not. Yeah, there's one way to think about it. Oslo can decide for themselves what they want to use the property tax for. But it must be allowed to point out, when we know that in this city we are now in, some of Norway's richest people and some of Norway's poorest people live, that there are also some who pay the bill that Oslo Municipality and the majority here do not use the income potential that is actually in being able to use property taxes. We have e.g. More than 7 000 homeless people in this country, and many of them belong to this city here. They are at least in this city. I must also say that we want local autonomy from the Government. We believe that we have facilitated it through several changes, both in the income system and through earmarked grants, which are now being treated. We'll have to come back to that and discuss it more. Then I record that the parties that were previously behind the comment on today's practice in relation to discretionary assets and property taxes that have been conducted are still behind the practice of voluntary taxation, but that it is also not contrary to the fact that it must also be taken into account in an overall assessment of the overall economic situation. So finally, a little bit more in relation to Oslo: The government has taken into account Oslo's special challenges in the proposal for changes in the income system by actually suggesting that the Municipality of Oslo is essentially compensated for what they lose, through the capital supplement, as opposed to having lost in isolation. But because there are special challenges in Oslo, we choose to give Oslo more than they really should have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1293	That being the case, it is no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1299	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1306	During the debate Per Sandberg has presented eight proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal provision to grant the right to family reunification by marriage only when both spouses prove that the marriage has been made on a voluntary basis and not by forced or arranged marriage.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government requests the introduction of procedures for the control of visa applications in the event of family reunification on grounds of marriage and, if there are indications of involuntaryness from one of the parties, reject them.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal provision requiring that the spouses originally residing in Norway be a Norwegian national.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to propose a legal provision requiring that, in the event of family reunification between non-parents and children, both parties be over 25 years of age.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a legal provision requiring family reunification to require the person in Norway to dispose of a reasonable size dwelling and to have sufficient income to bear the burden of living for more than himself.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to introduce teaching in Norwegian and social knowledge for persons receiving a permanent residence permit in Norway once they have been granted permanent residence.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement information measures on forced marriage aimed at immigrant youth in school and against immigrant organisations.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for legislation prohibiting the marriage of cousins and cousins.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1406	In Case No: 5, 6 and 7 are not yet rated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1521	Carl I. Hagen has asked for the floor of the Unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-30.ana.ud944e1524	I had no amendments under the Unit, but I would like to make a special comment on several of these issues, and I do so both to the Government and to the Stortinget, as Vice-President of the Delegation to the EFTA Parliamentarians working in the EEA territory. Norway is now in one of the last places to have some EEA Committee decisions incorporated into its law in a regular manner, and it is relatively difficult for us to take a long time. I see here that case no. 253 was approved by the EEA Committee on 17 December 1999 and is now coming to Stortinget. Case No. 257 was approved by the EEA Committee on 25 February this year and is now coming to Stortinget. Case No. 258 was approved on 17 December 1999 and is now coming to Stortinget. Case No. 262 was approved by the EEA Committee on 31 March this year and is now coming to Stortinget. In general, the settings in Stortinget in these kinds of cases are as they were in two cases we have just dealt with, namely Innst. S. No 183 and Innst. S. No 182, that «the Committee has no comments, refers to the proposal and calls upon the Grand Duchy to take such a decision» — that is, approval. And these two things were decisions of March 31 this year, which we have spent a very long time here. I allow myself to ask the government representative to take up the government if it is possible to proceed with the handling of these matters in the government. So I also allow myself to recommend Stortinget that you treat matters much faster when it is relatively clear that we do not have any comments, and accept them. We are now among the last to engage in sommeling in this area, and I think that's embarrassing. There's no need for us to spend time on curative matters. Of course, what is important is political matters, I have no problem debating and discussing, but to deal with bureaucratic summer meal in government and uplifting should not do when we are very poor in the ranking tables that are made in the EU area. I am sorry that I found no other way to take this up than here in the hall under Unit!
