ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e31	Representatives May Britt Vihovde and Jan Johnsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Helge Höva For Uppland State: Kjell Ivar Fossnes For the Westfold province: Karin Lian An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Einar Olav Skogholt from 9 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Erling Brandsnes, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Erling Brandsnes is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Einar Olav Skogholt.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e77	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e98	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 50 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 60 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Christian People's Party 25 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition to the allocated speaking time for the groups, the President will propose that an additional of up to 10 minutes be given to the Prime Minister, upon request. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a change of lines of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers for each party group, as well as from members of the Government and three lines with replies from the parliamentary leaders. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Kristin Halvorsen – for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e111	With the interest that this case has, I do not think it is reasonable to limit the change of line after the parliamentary leaders to three lines. I therefore propose that access be given to up to five lines, and not three lines, after the speeches by the parliamentary leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e116	The President has acted on the request of the relevant committee. With the agreement of the House, the President will be able to accept the proposal now proposed by Kristin Halvorsen. – If no one opposes this, the proposal for a debate with the amendment that there will be access to five lines, and not three lines, following the intervention of the parliamentary leaders, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e121	In the spring of 1999, the government presented St.meld. No 29 for 1998-99, the so-called Energy Communication. The Communication reviews key assumptions, objectives and strategies for energy policy, energy supply in Norway, various energy production technologies, energy use and energy conversion policies, the Norwegian power market and energy policy challenges. The Communication provides a summary of energy consumption projections up to 2020 based on the Energy Committee's calculations, as set out below. Now 1998: 11, Energy and power balance by 2020. The Government sets out in the Communication an energy policy based on the fact that the environmental objectives will determine the production potential. Focus is placed on an active policy to limit energy consumption. According to the Government, increased production needs to be based more on new renewable energy sources and it is claimed that a reconversion of energy policy needs to be made in a way that is efficient and at the same time acceptable to well-being. The government will stimulate the development of renewable energy sources through a development programme, with an expansion of wind power of 3 TWh per. year, with waterborne heat based on renewable energy sources, heat pumps and waste heat of 4 TWh per. years by 2010. To achieve these objectives, the Government will use 5 billion of the population's tax and tax dollars. The government will also pursue an active policy to limit energy consumption and reduce dependence on electric heating. Here you can set additional charges to reach your target. This has already begun as the budget agreement with the Workers' Party last autumn resulted in an increase in the electricity charge. It has been a myth in Norway for several years that we are some great wasters of energy. This isn't right. An overview from the NVE, which is adapted to the same climate, shows that energy consumption in Norwegian households is actually less than the EU average, and less than in Denmark, for example. Norway today appears to be an energy storm power with a production of nearly 3000 TWh in the form of power, oil and gas, and we can only use 7-8 pst. of this itself. In the European context, today we are on 30 pst. of hydropower production, we have over 45 pst. of the gas reserves and 75 pst. of oil reserves. So to put it all in perspective, we're less than 1 pst. of the population of the same area. It is for this reason to ask the following questions: Why in the world are the Norwegian people not going to use any of this enormous energy wealth we have to compensate for the disadvantages we have of living in a country with a cold climate? Is it so wrong that we use some of the natural resources we have to compensate for some of our natural disadvantages? Norway has now had to import large quantities of power from highly polluting coal-fired power plants in Denmark over several years, even in so-called normal years. Of course, this varies from year to year because of varying rates of rainfall and temperature. However, demand for energy, including in the form of power, has been increasing. The enormous and costly investment of the government in renewable energy sources and waterborne heat will not in any way meet the demand for energy either today or in the future. We will continue to be dependent on imports of large quantities of highly polluting coal power, and more cables to Europe are planned to meet this challenge. It is a fact that the production of power by wind turbines will not compete in this context, nor will they be able to stand on their own economics in the foreseeable future, but depend on strong subsidisation. In addition to this, we must not forget those natural interventions, not to say the visual encapsulation, such installations will result. And we now register that the nature protection organisations are on the track and are going against this. However, the Progress Party will not, on a general basis, oppose the development of wind turbines, but will argue that these must be on their own economic level, without public subsidies. The precious investment of the government in waterborne heat will also have very limited significance. Our country is, as we know, scattered, so the development of infrastructure will lead to enormous costs and only be profitable in densely populated areas. We can't compare ourselves to, for example, Denmark, where there are more than 6 million people living in an area of the size of Finnmark. The Progress Party will not help to spend 5 billion of the population's tax dollars on this hopeless effort. We would rather use more of our huge gas resources in Norway and facilitate the use of gas in industry as both energy carrier and raw materials, in the transport sector and for domestic use. There is an enormous potential for value creation and industrial development here. We also want to facilitate the use of gas for power generation. This, in addition to improving the national supply situation and value creation in Norway, will also be a good environmental policy. This has its background in the fact that the pollution from future gas power plants in Norway will be much less than that stemming from the highly polluting coal-fired power stations in Denmark and the rest of Europe. Several of these highly polluting coal-fired power stations in Denmark were scheduled to be closed, but Norwegian imports have contributed greatly to their continued operation. And what's going to happen when these are even shut down? Indeed, without the expansion of gas power plants, we may experience that we need to import power into Norway based on Norwegian gas exported to Europe. Then we will use a lot of energy to transport the gas from Norway to, for example, Germany or the Netherlands. In addition, we must not forget the enormous loss of energy we will get in the transmission system by getting the power back, and the value creation will happen on foreign hands. This could not be a good energy, environmental or industrial policy. The construction of gas power plants is the only sensible way to go so that the energy storm power of Norway will continue to have industrial development and value creation in Norwegian hands, so that we can secure the prosperity of our population. The Progress Party will facilitate such a development, and we will therefore not support the Government's contribution to the Energy Communication, which cannot be characterised as anything other than a costly air lock. I would like to put forward proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right, and the proposals No. 7, 8 and 9, on behalf of the Progress Party. In view of the concerns raised by the Ministry of Justice's legal department and the uncertainty which this has caused, I will not put forward proposal No. 6, but rather refer to our legislative amendment, which was tabled at Odelstinget on 7 March, and which is about to take CO2 out of the pollution law. It is paradoxical that in Norway a relaxation of the pollution law is needed in order to implement a better environmental policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e161	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e164	We hear the opponents of gas power stations repeat and repeat that the gas power stations they are seeking to build must be highly polluting power stations. A bluff does not become less bluffed by repeating. The reality is that these gas power plants are definitely the most modern in the world. These gas power stations are cleaner than all other alternatives. The real options are not windmills or solar – no option is highly polluting imported coal power. And the government adds that we're going to keep going in the future as well. In fact, I see that the government today in the media comes with enough panic action to rock the skin of its own energy policy, namely to force people to use less power. It certainly means making the price much higher, so that there are ordinary people who are going to pay the bill so that the government doesn't fit into their energy policy. My question to the Progress Party is simple: since we are very much in agreement with the energy policy – and since this is urgent – will you support the proposal of the Labour Party and the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e173	The President would point out that the use of the word ‘bluff’ in the context of this practice is hardly appropriate parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e176	I am pleased and interested to note that the Workers' Party agrees with the Advance Party that we will use more of our Norwegian gas resources also for power generation, and this will give us great opportunities for value creation and industrial development. This, as we know, will also be a good environmental policy, as it will push for the import of highly polluting coal power, which has been going on for many years now. As regards the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Right, the Enlarged Party of the Advance Party has not been given the opportunity to decide on it. It was a little late last night, so we're going to discuss that at a group meeting later today. I would like to remind you that we have submitted a legislative amendment two days ago, which is now under consideration. We're on the right track!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e183	First, it was a very interesting information we received from Bent Hegna, namely that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party agree with energy policy. There were exciting new thoughts. The danger of severe anthropogenic climate change is one of the major environmental challenges facing the world. The International Climate Change Panel has already established a significant human influence on the global climate in 1995. The panel, consisting of more than 3000 of the world's leading climate researchers, estimates that doubling CO2 concentrations is likely to occur during this century, and such doubling of concentrations according to the panel will increase the temperature of the soil by between 1 and 3 1⁄2 degrees. Scientists and researchers around the world have concluded that floods, reduced food production and increasing damage after storms both seem likely and can have disastrous consequences. In any case, it could take generations to correct them again, and it could affect the existence of billions of people. And if the climate panel is right, and based on the precautionary principle, we should think about getting a serious crisis if we don't get to do anything about the climate emissions. The progress party actually stated in the setting of St.meld. No 58 for 1996-97: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party believe that we should have the objective of leaving ourselves in an almost equal state of life as we assumed it.’ But then the Progress Party does not believe in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and says that there is only research of ‘objectivity and consensus’ that they will focus on. Why should the precautionary principle not apply to CO2 emissions when the Progress Party states that it should apply to ‘health and environmentally hazardous chemicals’, as they said in the St.meld setting. No 58? I have to say, however, that it is, after all, tidy by the Progress Party to take CO2 out of the Pollution Act, when they stand for this hopeless vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e201	I recorded that Rise was amazed at the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party in energy policy, and he must be allowed to do so. In the case of CO2 emissions and climate change, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether this is related. The Progress Party does not attach trust to the assessments of the Intergovernmental Panel. There is considerable disagreement in the research environment as to whether this has any effect on the climate at all, and the Progress Party will therefore not take the consequences and use the precautionary principle in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e209	It was interesting to listen to the representative of Waksdal, because on behalf of his party he has a different approach to energy policy than the other opposition parties in the hall. There may be reason to remember today. As you know, the Progress Party has little sense of its representatives in climate policy. Nor does the party of progress think that rising energy consumption is a problem, and finally, it seemed to the representative of Vaksdal that it does not matter which energy operators are used to generate more energy. At that point, the Propulsion Party remains neutral. Of course, it is not consistent with the main principle of the government's policy, which is that the environment must be the focus of the choice of energy operators and, as is well known, the environmental argument is at the heart of the gas power debate. Now there is no one here who believes that the representative of Waksdal and his people will build gas power plants with climate policy as a foundation, but I still find, based on his contribution, that he has put himself behind it in my opinion strangely the claim that gas power plants with the existing technology are a good environmental issue. So I want to add a question. It's obvious that the representative Vaksdal is busy with what he sees as a power crisis. But does it rhyme to talk about power shortages when prices are as low as they are now? In power supply, as the principle of supply and demand is known, and the signal from the market does not mean that the word ‘power crisis’ is a covert expression in today’s energy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e222	It's true, as John Dale claims, that the Progress Party has a different approach to energy policy than the rest of the opposition parties. We want as much free competition as possible between the various energy carriers. We don't want to subsidize or give tax exemptions to some energy carriers, we want to treat everyone as equally as possible. Then John Dale says that the Advance Party will build gas power plants. That's wrong. The Progress Party will facilitate the conditions for those actors wishing to build gas power plants. It is not a big business or a government that is going to build a gas power plant, but it is we who are responsible for facilitating the conditions. And it's true, as I said at the outset, that this is a very good environmental issue, because it will push forward the import of heavily contaminated coal power from Denmark. John Dale is also concerned with low power prices. Prices are to be set up freely in a market, but I am aware that in the Central Party the market forces are not exactly so high.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e231	The Labour Party's Bent Hegna pointed out in his speech that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party agree with energy policy. It would be interesting to know what the Progress Party stands for in environmental policy. Hagen said to the Evening Post on February 20th this year: ‘CO2 does not contaminate, you let it into the shed, and it grows better.’ Furthermore, on 23 April 1998 Hagen expressed the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on: ‘We should focus more on an adaptation strategy than on prevention. If there's a temperature increase, we should adapt. We should see advantages and disadvantages. Perhaps the benefits outweigh the disadvantages.’ Hagen goes on to say: ‘We need to consider, for example, what it will cost to build dams and dams if the water rises. Adaptation can be much cheaper than preventing climate change.’ Now there are many in the Progress Party who have expressed themselves on climate policy and energy policy at an earlier stage, so that they can be seen to a certain extent if they are right. Finally, I would like to make a quote and, in conclusion, to put a question to the first speaker. In the evening post of 2 September 1989 Peter N. Myhre said: ‘I find that in five to ten years’ time no one is talking about either the greenhouse effect or the holes in the ozone layer. The left side, especially in Norwegian policy, has always tried to find things that lie outside the world of reality. Since the late 1970s, these have been combined, the homophiles, the nuclear weapons and now the greenhouse effect/ozonholes.» I would then like to ask Waksdal: Does the Waksdal see it so that what his party trap, Peter N. Myhre, has taken up here, is no longer valid – is no longer talking about the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e256	Some questions were raised about the environmental policy of the Progress Party, with a focus on CO2 emissions. Of course, CO2 does not mean pollution. Mostly, 97-98 pst. by this, is created by nature itself. We breathe it in and out every day – and there's no toxic stuff that's dangerous. The representative Ballo referred some quotations from Peter N. Myhre, as I think was very good, and as I put myself fully behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e263	It has already been confirmed in today's debate that the Progress Party and the Labour Party think very much in terms of energy policy. Now, unfortunately, it's not just in energy policy it's such a community, it's also in important environmental issues. The Working Party and the Advance Party found a solution in the case of the shooting-field case, Upper Otta, etc., and in the context of an overall environmental movement. I don't expect it to be possible to get on a wavelength with the Progress Party if a person tries to get an involvement about the environment. That's why I'm trying a different way – it's about jobs and technology development. It is beyond doubt that facilitating an offensive for saving in relation to current energy use, in households, in the public sector and in industry can bring significant environmental benefits, while facilitating the development of technologies and many new jobs. It is quite clear that in the field of saving there are opportunities for significantly more jobs than in the construction of gas power plants. The same applies to the development of alternative energy sources. Is it possible to exacerbate the interest of the Progress Party in these environmental solutions if they are based on what they can create from jobs and technology development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e274	I note that the representative Kvassheim is also amazed at the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Progress Party in energy policy. Yes, unlike the coal-fired trailers in the Left, we have a clear environmental exposure. The representative of Kvassheim was involved in facilitating gas and domestic gas use. Here we clearly have common objectives that we, all parties, have set in motion in the Committee by means of joint comments, but the Progress Party is based on one point, and that is public support for this. We want to facilitate relationships using laws and other means, but not using public dollars. We want the market to work here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e281	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e284	Everyone talks about the weather, but no one does anything about it, it's called in an old saying. Now there are sad things that indicate that this saying is about to go out on date, and that we are actually doing something about the weather. The temperature of the Earth's ladder. We are still experiencing unusual weather conditions. Flat, unusually large rainfalls and extreme winds, everything with great destruction and great human suffering, have become a common part of our media image. Now, of course, this can be random, but can we trust it? The UN Climate Panel says that our human activities are most likely to affect the climate. Although we cannot be completely sure, we must be careful and take the threat seriously. The climate threat is an international problem. That is why the international instrument is needed to do something about it. The working party has always been, since it became a current issue, a driver for such an international system. Through the Kyoto agreement, the world community has shown that it is taking climate issues seriously. This agreement builds on a whole new generation of instruments in international environmental work, which differently suggests that countries can join forces on emission reductions. The idea is that instruments such as emission allowances and joint implementation should give greater emission reductions while also contributing to the transfer of technology and capital from rich to poor countries. The Kyoto Agreement has never been used as an obstacle to the use of new energy sources, although these will increase emissions in some countries. As long as these new energy sources force more impurity in other countries, this is very much in line with the intentions of the Kyoto agreement. The Storting is currently handling the Government's energy message. This message is based on the conclusions presented in the energy statement. The government is trying to give the impression that they are transforming energy policy into a more environmentally friendly direction. And there are some positive moves in the message that the Working Party also supports and says we are happy for. Although a new study by the International Energy Agency, the IEA, shows that Norway is in line with the other countries in Europe when it comes to energy efficiency, and even if we know that energy use per year. In Norway, citizens are at the level of countries with similar climates, there needs to be a target of increasing energy efficiency and improving work. The Norwegian electricity consumption per year The population is slightly higher than in other OECD countries. But the consumption of oil, coal and other energy sources is low. Although the energy consumption in Norway is not higher than in other countries we can compare with, it must be a goal to reduce the growth of consumption. The high use of electricity also makes it a measure of getting a more flexible energy system, especially for heating purposes. There is a lot of energy to get for larger use of water-borne heat. Here we have a potential that needs to be exploited better. Although financial support is important to achieve this, it can also achieve positive results by improving planning and by changing laws and regulations. There are often measures that can be implemented without costing anything. Such an action could be to open up the network operators' right to use the revenues generated from the sale of network services for alternative solutions such as district heating. Unfortunately, only the working party and SV are opening up to it, even if it would have much to say for the future use of water-borne heat in Norway. The working party supports the measures proposed by the Government to improve its work. We also support the measures proposed to generate new renewable energy sources, such as wind energy and bioheating. Although we see that this gives little new energy, we think it's right to stimulate these forms of energy. The setting shows that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre for Energy Policy, and even if the Workers' Party has found it together with the Progress Party and the Right when it comes to questions about gas power stations, the setting shows that the Working Party and the Centre are close to each other in these questions. The energy distribution shows that electricity consumption in Norway will rise. This also admits the Government of the message. Why does the use of electricity increase? Well, that's actually how there's more living in this country. The population is rising, so there are several people who are using power. We live longer, in other words, we should use stream for several years. Furthermore, there are things that indicate that we Nordics have become difficult to deal with – at least it is so that more and more people live alone! Over the last 45 years, the average size of a household has been halved. In particular, there have been large increases in households with only one person. The energy consumption of a person who lives alone is more than twice as high as the energy consumption per year. person in a household with four members. There is an equal amount of energy to heat up a dwelling, one, two, three, or more. Energy use also rises because we build more kindergartens, because we want to better school with a better indoor climate, because we want to give all the students PCs, because we build our health care system, because we want to give the older ones one around us. Nor should we get under the chair that our consumption increases because we have better advice. We have filled our homes with electrical items such as washing machines, drying drums, microwaves etc. In many ways I feel that the Government has taken this situation inward. In this message, rain goes away from previous objectives. While there has previously been a goal of stabilising energy use, the new goal of the Government is: ‘Energy consumption must be significantly more limited than if development is left to itself’. While it was previously a goal to be self-sufficient in renewable energy sources in a normal year, it is now called: ‘It is not appropriate to measure how much force can cross the boundaries.’ Power generation and consumption vary from year to year. Production is largely controlled by rainfall. Rain or snow for about a year, we can produce more than that in a so-called dry year. Consumption is controlled by temperature. In a cold winter, we use more power than if it's mild. Our consumption has increased evenly since the war. Until about 1990, production capacity has also increased. Over the 1990s, our consumption has increased by an average of 1.2 pst. in the year, we have almost no new capacity in the case of production. This has led to an average production of electricity that has been lower than consumption since 1996. The average production is currently about 113 TWh while consumption is above 120 TWh. Now it's only this year with a lot of rainfall and with mild winters we have excess electricity. Norway has gone from being a force-exporting country to becoming a country that has to import power from abroad. While we have been exporting current for nine out of ten years, we now have to import current for two out of three years. Corrected for temperature and rainfall, last year we had an import demand of 9.1 TWh or, if one wants, 15 Alta power plants. Although we had implemented all the measures in the government's plan in one year and not in ten years, as the government adds, we would have a power shortage. This footprint will increase for years to come. The government wants to cover this deficit by increasing the import. The main measure of the Government’s energy message will therefore increase imports. Norway is one of the largest gas producers in Europe. Last year we produced 60.7 billion standard cubic meters of gas. This corresponds to the gas in nearly 100 gas power stations of the type that Natural Power has plans to build in Norway. Today we export 98 pst. by our gas. The last two percentages are mostly used to transport the gas to Europe. In the same way that it is a goal to process larger parts of our fishery products in Norway and thus increase the value of this natural resource, it should also be a goal, in the view of the Working Party, to process larger parts of the gas in Norway. Natural gas will have to play an important role in a more environmentally friendly energy policy. Gas is now being used, including: as fuel for cars, buses, ferries and heating. Domestic use of natural gas will help reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions because the gas replaces more impurising energy. There is a great deal to be done in the committee. It's a shame, therefore, that it's only the Workers' Party and the Right that everything is now going to put out money for the introduction of natural gas. Norway has, as I said, a deficit in electricity. At the same time, we are a major exporter of gas. Today there are only two ways to cover this deficit, and it is still importing or using gas power in Norway. The last thing I have recorded is that there is some resistance to this, because the Norwegian emissions will go up if one builds gas power plants in Norway. However, the collection of emissions will decrease and thus contribute to reducing the global greenhouse gas emissions in northern Europe. This is the big deal in all the research environments in Norway. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, says in his concession to Naturkraft AS: ‘... if Norwegian gas power is introduced, the immediate effect will be that an equal production of coal and oil power is eliminated. The environmental impact of this is roughly halving the CO2 emissions...» SFT and SINTEF have some comments in this conclusion. And even if it's been called for innumerable times, among other things. in this room, no one has yet been able to show to a single Norwegian professional body that claims otherwise, i.e. that emissions will rise. In other words, it is worse for the environment to say no to gas power stations than to say yes. By using the gas in Norway now, and thereby creating a gas environment, I'm completely overly overly envisioned that we can develop the technology and thus reach much faster results when it comes to CO2-free gas power plants than if we were to wait and operate with desktop theory. Combined with the package of measures put in by the Workers' Party and the Right to produce CO2-free gas power plants, I am not in doubt that this is the best solution to achieve these results. Also in our neighbouring countries Finland and Sweden there is a shortage of electricity. In Finland, one discusses whether to build gas or nuclear power plants; the Swedish will meet their needs through imports. There's a cable built for Poland these days to get coal power from there. Polish coal power is produced from so-called brown coal. This gives about twice as much emissions as traditional coal power plants, and four times as much emissions as gas power. Personally, I had hoped that the Swedish had built their cable to Norway instead, so that we could export a much cleaner force than the Swedish will now import. But because there is an effective stop for gas power plants in Norway through the emission loops for the gas power plants, this is impossible. In Norway, since 1996, there has been a clear political plurality which suggests that it is right to facilitate the construction of gas power stations in Norway. Nevertheless, there is an effective stop for this through the emission channels that have been given. Therefore, the emission path has to be changed in line with what the multiple in this room thinks is right. All decisions must be within the scope of the promise. In our view, the proposal from the majority in this matter is in line with the law. Different legal assessments conclude immediately. In my opinion, a legal statement from the Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs department shows the same thing. After that, there is one proposal, i.e. proposal No. 6 from the Progress Party, which cannot be implemented within the framework of the laws. I interpret it so that it is possible to implement all the other suggestions within the law, including the plural setting. What is clear is that certain arrangements must be in place before a conversion decision can be taken. The majority have taken a decision on this in the setting, and sees that these statements are already met. The plethora is like this within promise. Nor can I see that the law department has asked questions about the setting from the large majority is legal. The majority think that the option of multiple choice can be decided without changing the law. However, in order to avoid turning the hall into a courtroom where the representatives are knocking on the table with different legal arrangements and interpretations, and in order for us to be able to discuss what this is all about, whether we are going to meet our future energy needs through ever-increasing imports or by using gas power plants, I will, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Right, present the proposal put into the Chamber. We now have a government that has made it a delivery gel not to have permanent partners in Stortinget. It's made a point that one will cooperate on a case-by-case basis to get multiples for their own policies. The Prime Minister has repeatedly stated that it is not who you are working with, but what you are working with, which is important. If this applies to the centre party, it should also apply to all other lots. It should therefore be understood that the other party is also trying to get through to its policy, as is the case here. What is clear is that since 1996, there have been a number on the Stortinget that have said that it would be right to facilitate the construction of gas power in Norway. When there are two issues for treatment in the Storting where gas power is a theme, it's no wonder that this multiple is once again found together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e363	Olav Akselsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e368	I have said that before, and I would like to repeat it: I am pleased to register that the Workers' Party now agrees with the Advance Party that it is reasonable to deploy gas power in Norway – that is a very sensible position, as well as a very good environmental issue. However, several years have passed since the Storting actually decided to use gas in power generation. The problem with this was that the Jagland government decided that CO2 would be included in the pollution law. My question to the representative Aksenssen will therefore be: Will Aksenssen and the Workers' Party take part in the responsibility that it has taken so long to establish a proper framework for gas power in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e377	It is such that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are some when it is up to them to use the gas in Norway. But I still want to warn you that one is trying to represent it as if we are some of the energy policy in general. I mean in my post I showed that it's not in any way the case. In this reply I have questions about what happened in 1997, and I actually believe that the representative, Mr. Vaksdal, needs to be better involved in history. No legislative changes were made in 1997; no mention was made of CO2 being introduced as a new phenomenon in this law. What happened at the time was that there was a legal interpretation that meant that the emission path as requested by Naturkraft AS had to be treated according to the pollution laws. That's the situation as it was then. Now it's such that these emission channels can attack. And I'm pretty sure that if we had a government other than the one we have today, that appeal would have a completely different result from what we've been given, and we'd be in a completely different situation today than the one we're in, both here in the hall and not least when it's related to the emission path. I feel it will be difficult for the Labour Party to take responsibility for the situation that we have now been in, but I hope today we are able to rectify and accept that what we have lost so far in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e387	The representative Akselsen stressed that there has been a clear majority in this room since 1996 to build gas power plants. But then the representative Akssen has been one of the most eager to fight this majority for many years. Gas resistors The Akselsen said in 1996 in the blackout debate: ‘ Nor can I see that there is any evidence that CO2 emissions in the Nordic region will decrease as a result of Norway’s current construction of gas power plants. Such a claim is null and void as long as it does not have an international binding agreement... It does not meet the Norwegian CO2 objective completely.’ I would like to ask the Axis: what is the background for him having completed this gigantic reverse operation and now appears to be perhaps the most intense gas power generator in Stortinget? So the Axis says there's a broad consensus between the Workers' Party and the Centre. And then I want to ask what we think about the pollution law, it has been an important pillar of environmental policy: do we also agree that the pollution law should not be weakened as an environmental policy instrument? As the Akselsen said in 1996, the construction of gas power plants will lead to a significant increase in CO2 emissions. So we're starting at a time when we're going to reduce them by a huge increase, and I have to ask the Axis: who is going to bear the cost of the national measures? The Labour Party considered that the Kyoto Agreement and international action are only a supplement. Do normal drivers have to pay more in petrol tax – you already pay 90 cents in CO2 tax – if you have to increase the diesel tax, will you hit industrial companies in Årdal, Sauda, Odda, or do you want to get rid of public transport? Or has the Labour Party just as well dropped its national measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e401	I'll first clear up a misunderstanding. If someone thinks I'm the busiest fan of gas power in the Workers' Party, they're totally wrong. I'm in no way, but I see it as my task to try to defend what is a sensible policy. [[Laughter]] I'm glad Lars Rise took the time to read what I said in this room four, five years ago, but I thought he interpreted it in a strange way. I have read the article myself, and I actually thought it was a very good article. I can stand in for every word today. And what I said was that there were a few arrangements that had to be put in place before I could go in for the construction of gas power plants. Today, the resolutions have been put in place. Firstly, when we dealt with this in 1996, a large number of people in this room believed that we should be able to cover our own energy consumption by means of renewable energy sources. Governmental parties do not even believe that this is possible. So today the option is imports, and that is a lot worse. Secondly, I have always been concerned about the emission of NOx in these areas because I know that the tolerance limit is exceeded. These emissions are regulated by pollution laws and no greater NOx emissions than environmental authorities have said are possible. And thirdly, we've got the Kyoto agreement, which means there's going to be constraints -- there's going to be a roof -- when it comes to how much emissions we can have, so there's nothing in my 1996 post that I can't stand for today. But the realities have changed, and I must say that it must be much better to take the changes into account and thus change its own view than to stand firm on a policy despite the fact that the realities have changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e412	My question does not concern gas, but another important question. The right has noted with pleasure that the Workers' Party has opened up the partial privatisation of Statoil. I guess the reason is that Statoil competes in a market where it would be an advantage to be quoted and have private investors on the owner's side. It is therefore surprising that the Workers' Party is not willing to open up the exchange listing and partial privatisation of State power. State power is increasingly competing in an open and liberalised market beyond the borders of Norway. On the right, Norway is developing as a leading European energy nation, and in Norway we are going to have leading European energy companies. If the Norwegian power companies are to develop and strengthen their position, we must also be willing to think again, we must be willing to give the Norwegian power companies some of the same framework conditions and competitive opportunities as other power companies outside Norway's borders. So my question is about the Workers' Party's slowness, but certainly will be willing to take up the debate on whether we should open up to the stock exchange listing and partial privatisation of State power.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e421	I agree, of course, that one should think about something new, but I still want to refer to a former party colleague of Sanner, Jan P. Syse, as the record says that what's in order, doesn't need to be repaired. And it's actually so that state power in all possible ways asserts itself well in the market in which they operate. Now it would be a goal for the Workers' Party to have a large public ownership in the power industry. We feel that this is our common property, which is developed through generations, and which we want to manage for the benefit of future generations. I have noticed that there is a great deal of zeal here on the Stortinget to prevent Statkraft and some other public companies from acting in the market in which they have to act. With that in mind, I am thinking of both the dividend policy that has been pursued and a number of other framework conditions that have been imposed, which reduce these companies' ability to do their job. And I'm going to say that in some cases, the Storting has probably been a lot tougher in terms of dividend policy than the private owners would have been. I see that there may be a point, but it should also be easy for the Storting to show greater consideration in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e428	In his debut as leader of the Energy and Environment Committee, the representative Olav Akssen is really doing its best to produce gas power plants as a good environmental issue. Attack is the best defence, it is called, but nevertheless: it should be said that emissions of 17,5 million tonnes of greenhouse gases in 2010 are a good environmental policy. The construction of gas power plants will, of course, strongly contribute to emissions exceeding the level of the Kyoto agreement for Norway, also corrected for the assistance required in a future allowances system. Now it is a well-known case that for economic reasons it will not be built gas power plants in Norway with the first – fortunately. In this round, the majority will clear up the policy, so the market will decide when, whether and how gas power plant plans will be launched. There is also the great point of the Progress Party in this debate. The market is given the assignment. But there are several questions – let's call them value questions – that I thought the representative Aksen should comment on. Is the market really going to get involved in decisive environmental policy issues? Should not environmental policy be based on personal, national and political responsibility? Are we going to leave the construction of gas power plants entirely to the market in the energy-rich state of Norway – in the hope that the technology will come into operation? So where is it from the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e439	The best precautionary principle should well be to ask ourselves the question: What can we do to reduce our own need to import impurity from our neighbouring countries? This is the biggest environmental problem in the energy industry over the coming years. It's a little strange that none of those who are opponents of building gas power plants can say where they will retrieve the same stream from. And as far as I understand, there will also be a need for power in their future societies. I showed in my article that the Government has gone away from previous goals of stabilising consumption. Now there's a reduction in the growth that's the target, and then it should be possible to get an answer to, where will the incidence of this growth come from? Which energy sources should a cover inside this? So in my view, it is different than us who need to answer the leading question. In fact, we can show that all the professional bodies in Norway who have commented on this issue claim that CO2 emissions will decrease with our policies. We have asked several times in this room if one can show other trade unions in Norway that refer to the opposite. Per. Today, no one has been able to demonstrate in any way that emissions will rise if a gas plant is built in Norway, contrary to the fact that a lot of research institutions and trade unions show that emissions will decline. That's why I want to hold on to the fact that we have professional coverage for our vision, something the opponents in this case don't have. Of course, it is not for the market to control energy policy on its own. The market will be heavily regulated by the Kyoto Agreement. It will set perfectly clear limits on how large emissions can be generated. And it'll be like this in the future that no one can release CO2 without a certificate to show that they're allowed to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e453	The representative Aksensens started his post with extended hands in the direction of center and SV, but we had not gotten far into the line chord shift before the temperature rose, and the fronts were tightened. The Workers' Party and SV have often agreed to criticise the Bondevik government for the influence that has been given to the Advance Party in many areas of Norwegian policy. Now the Labour Party is standing without a single argument until the next round. It was after the representative Hegna started this debate with such a hot embrace of the Progress Party in energy policy that the temperature itself rose to climatic heights. Is there anything that Mr Hegna, a member of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, has not understood? Or is it that the Labour Party and the Advance Party now have a great relationship with environmental policy? So I must remind you that the Progress Party believes that the Kyoto agreement should not be ratified. Carl I. Hagen sees benefits from climate increases and sea level rises. He's ready to build dikes, and we recommend that he start in Bangladesh. He believes that the climate problems are something SV has invented in a bad day – just as we have invented samer and homophile. The tragic thing about this matter is the alliance that the Labour Party has done with the Right and the Advance Party. The tragic thing is the hard drive that it has been put up to in the gas power case, which has made the focus of energy policy completely wrong. Because you have no choice in the future but to focus on consumption, not just on how we can produce more and more power. So the electricity consumption among the Nordics is four times higher than among the Danes. Therefore, what we are focusing on today should be: How in all the world can Norway shift its energy consumption so that we put on more water-borne heat and save on the huge gift we have received in hydropower?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e462	I can very well agree that this gas power debate seemed to take too much space. But I would like to remind you that if it had been up to the bulk of the population, this matter would have been settled many years ago. Then we had dropped to have this matter for debate now. What is quite clear is that there is a number in this room – it has been quite since 1996 – that it would be right to open up gas power plants in Norway, thus helping not only to use our own resources but also to bring down the northern European CO2 emissions. In my view, it is a good energy policy, and it is a good environmental policy. Now the Labour Party – because we were in government, maybe – was the first party to take a stand for the construction of gas power plants. We did that based on the reasons I mentioned earlier. We've had this up at two of our national meetings, and there's a great deal of excitement about this position in our party. The Labour Party cannot allow itself to develop its own policies because it is supported by a party that one, perhaps in other contexts, could not equal. And so I said in my post that today we have a government that has made it a point that they want a case-to-case collaboration. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that it is not who you are working with, but what you are working with, which is the decision. I don't have a bad conscience because the Labour Party and the Right in this case are equal. The situation is that we are some. I think it would have been strange if the Labour Party's big group were to organize themselves so that a non-multiple figure for the policy that two of our national meetings have adopted, because we would not have support from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e471	The cord shift is over. Einar Steensnæs has asked for the word out of the way to make a suggestion. – It is approved here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e476	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, I will present the following proposal: ‘The impact requires that the pollution law is not weakened as an environmental policy instrument.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e484	Einar Steensnæs has put forward the proposal he has referred to. Let's move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e490	Today, the size should address one of the most important and mentioned issues in the spring, namely the energy message. The matter has received considerable attention, not least because it is closely connected to the Government's presence or not. The reason for this, of course, is the contentious proposal of the majority to facilitate the construction of gas power plants in Norway. However, I would like to begin by saying that I am very pleased that the bulk of the flooding gives its full support to all the proposals in the communication that do not – well to note – deal with gas power. It provides opportunities for a significant and necessary conversion of our future energy policy. The biggest challenge we face is, in the view of the Christian People's Party and the rest of the Centre's parties, the strong growth in consumption of energy in general and electricity in particular. The forecasts for the coming years show a strong upward curve requiring the necessary countermeasures that can help to slow down growth. That challenge takes the Government seriously. The Energy Communication offers a range of instruments that can positively influence an unimpeded increase in energy consumption, while at the same time linking it to our environmental policy challenges. It is important, not least in relation to the commitments undertaken by Norway under the Kyoto Agreement. There is little disagreement that the growth in consumption cannot continue as predicted. It is therefore important that these are not only observed, but that the forecasts are actually shaped by political will to preface development. That will has made the Government visible through the Energy Communication by drawing up the lines of a different, ambitious and forward-looking energy policy. It is gratifying that a majority of the Government's comprehensive package has now been set up for a necessary reorientation in the energy sector. Over a period of ten years, it is assumed that a total of DKK 5 billion will be used for this purpose. A significant extra effort like this, there is no other government that can point to. In Norway, the use of alternative, new renewable energy sources is well served. Most people seem to agree that by doing so, we have opportunities to extract significant resources that can help to cover significant parts of future consumption growth. The Government is therefore committed to facilitating conditions in such a way that these energy carriers have a framework that makes them attractive as real alternatives to existing non-renewable energy sources. In this we can see investment grants and exemption from investment taxes. The commitment to alternative energy sources is part of a package of measures which also means an increase in the electricity charge with subsequent schemes designed to counteract any adverse distribution effects and, finally, a series of additional measures to contribute both to energy saving and to better resource use. Whatever tools are being put in place, we have to take into account the fact that, in the years to come, we will have a disparity between consumption and containment through self-production of electricity. The challenge will then be how best to deal with this in the most environmentally sound way possible. In this context, the central parts of the suspension also point to the need to assess what is to be done in relation to already established hydroelectric power plants in terms of the need for necessary conversion, modernisation and maintenance, and in doing so trigger a significant potential for electricity that we do not have access to today. The Government aims to cover a greater share of expected growth in energy consumption by means of new renewable energy carriers, on the one hand by recognising that the large hydropower deployment period is over, and, on the other hand, by reducing our need for power imports based on polluting sources, including coal power on the other. When some constantly repeat that the Government actively contributes to continued dependence on imports of power based on highly polluting sources of production, it is wrong. That's the opposite of it. The government is taking considerable steps to reduce this dependence, but then using the most clean forms of production at home. I would also like to mention our opportunities for developing and using wind power, which should have particularly good natural conditions in order to make a significant contribution to our electricity supply system. In this context, I refer to the Competence Centre with the test station at Valsneset, which can help us both succeed in the development of Norwegian wind power, the development of new industrial workplaces and the establishment of a professional environment that is necessary to achieve our objective of 3 TWh wind power generation over the next ten years. This, together with the investment in water-borne heating systems, clearly shows the willingness to think alternatively in relation to future energy supply, and I am of course glad that the majority share the Government's view of the possibilities we have to obtain energy from these energy sources. So a few words about gas. We have a few hectic weeks behind us with a gas power debate. The debate has arisen as a result of an appeal by Nature Force regarding SFT's emission reduction requirements, which has been subsequently confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment. The focus on the gas power issue is primarily on the issue of whether or not the Government can continue with a large number against itself or not in such an important case. I will not take a decision on that, but limit myself to saying a few words about the matter itself. The government says no to the construction of gas power plants in Norway based on today's technology, because, in our opinion, these represent so much greenhouse gas emissions that the government does not think it appropriate in relation to the need to reduce emissions, and not least in relation to the strong commitments we have made through the Kyoto agreement. On the other hand, the opposition, led by the Workers' Party, wants, by instruction of the Government, to facilitate the start-up of the construction of polluting power plants. A systematic attempt is being made to create the impression that the debate is about gas power plants or about gas power stations. That's not right. The centre batches also see significant possibilities in the construction of gas power plants, but then based on solutions that can minimise emissions. There is reason to believe that such a technology is or will soon become available, and that we should therefore wait with construction. It is worrying that our way of meeting our Kyoto commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is to increase emissions in the size of large parts of the Norwegian fleet. There is little reason to doubt that the majority's position in this matter puts our credibility to the test as an environmental policy priority country. There is also reason to put a major question mark on the environmental profile of the Workers Party, which is already severely weakened. It should be a cross of thought for the party and its environmental profiled Prime Minister candidate that his party increasingly base its environmental exposure on cooperation with the Right and not least the Progress Party. Keywords here are the development of Upper Otta and the establishment of a new field of fire at Finnskogen – and now, therefore, the gas power case. The majority now rely much of its argument for the construction of highly polluting gas power on the fact that these will replace the imports of Danish coal power. However, we have no sure evidence that that will happen. On the contrary, Denmark is signaled on the Danish side that, in order to meet its Kyoto commitments, Denmark will have to reduce much of its coal-fired power generation and instead meet its future energy needs by means of pure alternative energy carriers. At the same time, reference is made to an international trading system that means that we can invest in climate action abroad, which is then credited to home action. The problem is that such a system is not in place. We don't know when it comes, what device it gets, or how much Norway has the opportunity to act for that matter. If highly polluting gas power plants are built in Norway, the majority of them shall not be subject to any emission reduction requirements during the period until an allowance system is in place. This means, in reality, free from unrestricted access to greenhouse gas emissions. The Kyoto Agreement presupposes that a substantial part of our commitments must be taken as national measures, while trading in allowances and flexible implementation mechanisms is to be seen as supplements. That means that we can't unilaterally rely on these mechanisms, but also be willing to take the necessary lift at home. It will therefore be a major challenge to clarify how this can best be done. When, in the view of the majority, gas power stations are to be released from commitments, other sectors must be willing to take the additional burden. As far as I can see, the majority has not indicated any way in which sectors to be affected. Many would probably appreciate knowing it, both within industry, the transport industry and perhaps among normal drivers. It should not least be able to clarify the Labour Party during today's debate. The working party has inverted a number of points through this process. This applies both in relation to the assumptions for the construction of gas power plants, the view of SFT’s emission requirements and the importance of the pollution law for the construction of gas power plants. There is plenty of documentation that, in my opinion, underpins this, even if the Workers' Party claims the opposite. Juss has become a central topic in the request for a hearing on this matter. I'm not going to go deep into it, but I'm just going to conclude that the legal considerations presented by the central parties and the government are presented in full transparency so that the Storting can relate to them, unlike certain other legal considerations that cannot be dealt with in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e542	First, I have to say that I am glad that Brother Yngve Rahm confirms that the Labour Party and Centre are in place in most areas of this setting, are in a position to improve the work on an increment, are in the process of generating renewable energy sources. I am also pleased that the representative Rahm confirms that we are today in a situation where we have to import force. However, what I want to ask you is the target formulas that the Government is now adding to the message. In the past, there was a goal of stabilising consumption. In this message the Government says that it is now a goal to "limit" the growth. In the past, it was a goal that we should be self-sufficient in renewable energy for so-called normal years. Now the government says it's a little appropriate to set a target on how much energy or power to cross the border. I can't help but understand that this must be a policy change. Some debts to the extent that this Workers' Party also, but we have openly and honestly admitted that this is the situation. The energy distribution showed that the measurements we had seen before were not implemented. What I'm wondering is if Brother Yngve Rahm can confirm that the government and the center have celebrated its previous goals and now has others, but perhaps more realistic target formulas to stick to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e547	The representative Aksensens and the Workers' Party and Centre agree that we will need to import force in the future and in the coming years. It really means that we don't have the opportunity to be able to push with the full force, to say it like this, to meet the increasing consumption we have. The question is how to cover this. The Labour Party proposes in its policy to try to create the impression that this will be done by the power plants that the Workers' Party will build, and that there will be consequences for coal power generation in Denmark. There's, as I said in my post, no sign-up for. In terms of objectives – limiting growth, our self-sufficiency in a normal year – Akssen says that the Workers' Party admits the situation. It's not a problem for us to admit it either – we have to see the realities in our eyes. But we're going to make the absolute best of it, and we think that with the way the government is going, to be so active in alternative energy sources, on an increase in measures, combined with the construction of pollution-free gas power, we're going to have good opportunities to meet that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e554	After listening to the post of the representative Rahm of the Christian People's Party, it would be thought that Norway is a nation with a shortage of energy. This is not the case. Norway has huge energy resources, only the Christian People's Party will be involved and use them. So we have almost 1/3 of Western Europe's hydropower production, half of the gas reserves, and 3/4 of the oil reserves. At the same time, Norway has 1 pst. by the population. We are a major power within energy resources. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will spend hundreds of millions of dollars on windmills, which will be a powerful visual seamscaping and lead to major interventions in Norwegian, pristine nature. The Christian People's Party will also increase the electricity charge, increase the oil charge – in other words, most people are affected, and especially those who have the least. My question to the representative Rahm is: why will the Christian People's Party conduct an energy policy that leads to major natural interventions, a huge subsidy for the production of power, and charges that will affect most people, while there will be a shortage of energy here to land?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e563	When the central parties want to build energy and environmental policies in the way we do, it is because we want to organize a good and viable environment for those who come after us. It doesn't worry about the Progress Party, it's quite obvious. But what surprised me in the line to Øyvind Korsberg, however, was that he was concerned that we would build wind turbines, with the great visual contamination and the great natural interference that it would represent. And it says Øyvind Korsberg, who represents the party that almost will build out all the streams small, with the natural interventions that it represents. We can only refer back to the Upper Otta case, where the interventions are likely to be quite significant in relation to what some windmills might mean. As far as fees are concerned, we know that the Progress Party is against it. Last time this was promoted by the Government, we heard from the opposition that this would cause social and unfortunate side effects for individual groups, while there would be a fiscal tax. Then the government will now come back to the energy message and respond to this by introducing mechanisms to counter social inequalities associated with it, and which are at the same time directly linked to the investment in the energy sector – a new energy policy course. Then it's no longer a fiscal tax. But the Progress Party still chooses to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e573	In today's news picture, we see that the government wants to raise the electricity prices for its citizens. We see that we have a development where we have a national power deficit, and the rate of self-sufficiency drops for every year. We simply become more dependent on imports of coal from Denmark for every year that goes. These imports want the government to increase in the coming years, which means that coal plants in Denmark will be set high. So even if the government sees this, the government won't use gas, which we've spent decades and billions of dollars to figure out first, and in the next round to pick up. What they want is to get it into a pipe – I kept saying – and get it sent out as soon as possible. Here you can separate the central and right paths. I've realized that the center parties can live with it. It could also be right over there. It is obvious that there are other positive effects in the construction of gas power plants. There are, among other things: discovered what could happen in Central Norway. It will trigger industrial investment in the billion class along the entire West Coast and to the extent in North Norway, and it is no wonder that government parties' localities and states are fighting to send resolutions from their annual meetings on why the Government should take the opposite position of what it is doing, and to go along with the broad majority. My question to the main spokesperson of the government parties in this matter is: if one ignores the environmental policy aspects on which we disagree, with which I think we can both live, does the representative Rahm see that, in relation to industrial development, in relation to jobs in the districts, in relation to developments along the coast and in relation to technology research, it will be an advantage to open up gas power, or will it also be a disadvantage, as Rahm sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e584	Gabrielsen repeats what many have already said and tried to create an impression, namely that this is a debate about whether you are in favour of or against gas power. What this debate is essentially about is for or against polluting gas power, or pollution-free gas power. There we go each our way. But it's not like the right and the majority want to use gas power, and we don't want to do it. We have said in the setting that we are very open to use this, and that we will actively be committed to bringing forward technologies that can contribute to almost zero-emission gas power plants. We have also put forward proposals on this, such as: The party of Ansgar Gabrielsen has voted against it and is unlikely to support it during today's debate. On the question of the possibilities for industrial development through the use of gas — yes, of course, everyone sees it. There are opportunities for technological development. There are opportunities for industrial development. But the precondition is that it must be done within the framework of environmental responsibility. We believe that today's technology does not match that. When it comes into place, Ansgar Gabrielsen and I will agree on the possibilities that gas can also represent through gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e591	The Government, through the Energy Communication and through the Government Party, has worked constructively in the Committee in relation to the environmental challenges we face. Together, the Centre, the Workers' Party and SV have many good suggestions. What I want to challenge the representative, Ramm, is related to the proposal that the centre party has when it comes to gas power. SV has a proposal on energy efficiency. For example, the representative Rahm knows that: The ROCA gas plant in the Netherlands had 90 pst. energy efficiency. It must then be important, if there is a gas power decision, that the Storting adopts something similar, and that the centre party must therefore terminate this proposal. My question is why the centre does not want one to have such environmental policy leaders even in relation to the possible construction of gas power plants. The second question is related, as one thinks, to the fact that the Labour Party came out of a quandary the last time this matter was mentioned. Hydro helped them to put off the problem. This time one goes to the same ones, through the force of nature, to get assistance in running this thing through. After all, the Labour Party has clear signals from its cooperating parties in strong state companies. I thought this was very strange, and I thought it was a shame. But I'd like to get deeper, and I heard it was mentioned in the post as well, how the Government and the government parties feel that it is actually of their own owners that they should have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e598	Let me start with the first question, about energy-efficient requirements. As far as the situation in the Netherlands is concerned, this is the case with the work, which Langeland was involved in. They have no general provisions and requirements for energy-efficient gas power plants in the Netherlands. I don't think that's true, as far as we know. Of course, the important thing to focus on is to get CO2 emissions down in the first place. That's the primary thing we're looking for. We think it would be difficult to set the type of requirements for gas power plants in Norway that have so different assumptions. They're in different places. They may have more or less proximity to waterborne systems, etc., and that means we haven't explored that possibility. We have not taken a decision on this, and that is also why we at least per. today is not able to meet SV on proposal No. 10 in the setting. When it comes to jus and natural force, which Langeland was in, I think we agree. Here's someone who's gone together and talked in a way that there's every reason to put some question mark by. But the most worrying thing is that a majority of the parties in the Grand Duchy do not have access to the material developed through one of the parties – and an important party – in this matter. It's hard, it's very suspicious. That is why I also said in my post that the type of documentation to which it is referred, which is not available to the whole Stortinget, cannot be included as a significant contribution in the debate. I'll hold on to that. In this way, I choose to ignore the input of legal advisers such as the Natural Force, the Right and the Workers' Party in a cooperation have used in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e606	I registered in the reply from Brother Yngve Rahm to the Olav Aksen that he had to admit that the government has gone away from its previous objectives regarding the electricity consumption. He also admitted that Norway would have to import force for a long time in the future. My questions are: What kind of moral attitudes is it to export gas equivalent to 100 gas power plants to Europe when the Government does not find it possible and environmentally sound to use the gas in Norway? What kind of morality is it to make money on something that, in the government's view, is environmentally irresponsible? Is it more environmentally friendly to import coal from abroad than to use the gas in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e611	The representative Blattmann reiterates that there is a contradiction between the majority and the minority in this case with regard to the use of gas. The core point, which we disagree on, is the type of technology to be used to prevent the environmental pressures that the majority through this matter is willing to impose on our environment. Then the representative Aud Blattmann asks if it's morally sound. Let me say one thing: otherwise, the situation in Europe and the situation in Norway are very different. Within Europe, alternatives are relatively modest, at least in large parts of Europe. Norway should not have that. We should have all kinds of good assumptions for expanding alternative forms of energy and exploiting the resources that lie within our natural assumptions, in a completely different way from what we have very many other places in Europe. Of course, we are pleased that the Workers' Party and Aud Blattmann are also behind it. At least we should be able to agree on that. In the case of future imports: we do not turn a heavy train overnight, but the aim must be that, in the first instance, we are able to slow down growth in uncontrolled consumption, put it on a straight track and look at the possibilities of stabilising and reducing consumption in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e620	The president is somewhat unsure whether Brother Yngve Rahm took up the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e623	I didn't, but I'm doing it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e630	The representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, has drawn up the proposals to which it refers. So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e635	Norway has the potential to develop as a leading European energy nation with leading European energy companies. We all have opportunities to reconcile the desire for industrial development with the environmental responsibility we are going to take. Our resources include clean and renewable hydropower, but also natural gas that can replace more polluting energy sources. It gives us an opportunity and an obligation to take environmental responsibility both nationally and internationally. It is this environmental responsibility that underpins Right-wing policy. For more than 100 years, Norway has been a leader in the use of energy resources, and we have built up world-class competences and technologies. The use of natural gas and the construction of gas power stations is a modern continuation of this tradition. An overall strategy for the further development of Norway as an energy nation must also include an offensive effort to increase energy efficiency, promote energy savings and increase renewable energy production. The right is predictable in the gas power case. For more than 10 years, the Right has been a member of the building of gas power plants in Norway. Today, the Storting removes the obstacles that have existed in order to achieve this objective. Traditionally, hydropower has made Norway self-sufficient in electricity. However, the growth in electricity consumption is so high that Norway is becoming increasingly dependent on highly polluting coal-fired imports. It also shows the government's own numbers. In what is called normal year, we have to import power corresponding to more than 15 Alta power plants. We do not have the power to fill the consumption growth with renewable energy, it is filled with highly polluting coal power. This is bad environmental policy. I am pleased that the centre parties have now left their scepticism against pollution-free gas power plants. I agree with the Bellona Environmental Foundation that the future lies in CO2-free gas power plants. The right-hand share of the wish for Norway to be the first country to build the next generation of CO2-free gas power plants. It is an ambitious goal, but achievable if we gain experience with land-based use of gas and at the same time step up research efforts. Managing Director of SINTEF Energy Research, Sverre Aam, wrote in the Evening Post on 22 February: ‘Theoretical studies of tomorrow’s solutions will not be sufficient.’ In other words, it is unlikely that we can achieve our goal of developing the next generation of clean technologies if we take the wait and look of the centers. The right strategy is to give green light to those who will build gas power plants with the most modern technology available and profitable. At the same time, we are prepared to provide money for research. Therefore, the right-hand side proposed to increase the appropriations for energy research in the budget for the year 2000 by 30 million. kr. The centre parts, however, accepted that it was cut by 15 million. kr in the same entry. I am pleased that there is now a broad consensus and commitment to the Right's desire to increase the research effort. We fear, however, that the strategy of the centre parties to grant billions of subsidies to gas power plants with CO2 cleaning will hamper the development of more competitive clean technologies. Let me also add that we have many challenges in this country for which the billions of centre parties intend to use for subsidies can be used, both in terms of school and health care. When the Norwegian oil adventure started, the best available technology was used. You didn't wait for the next generation of technology, you started with the technology you had. Later, skilled technologists and researchers have achieved phenomenal results. Emissions and costs have fallen sharply and efficiency has increased. Those to build gas power plants in Norway know that they must purchase allowances when the Kyoto agreement enters into force in 2008. The emissions will get a price. It will in itself be a powerful motivation for companies to drive forward new technologies that can increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions and costs. On the right, we have repeatedly challenged the centre politicians and asked them to document their claims that the total European CO2 emissions will rise if we build gas power stations in Norway. We have not received an answer. The leading Norwegian trade unions provide gas power trailers with the right thing to do when we establish that European CO2 emissions do not rise, but rather fall if we build gas power plants in Norway. In the concession to Naturkraft AS, Norway’s watercourse and energy works, NVE, concluded: ‘... if Norwegian gas power is introduced, the immediate effect will be that an equivalent production of coal and oil power will be achieved.’ In a consultation opinion to the Energy and Environment Committee, SINTEF states: ‘No to gas power leads paradoxically to increased CO2 emissions’. Calculations submitted by the SFT to the Committee show that European CO2 emissions will be lower if we build gas power plants now than if not. Former Head of the Government's Research Committee and former Director-General of Norsk Hydro, Torvild Akvaag, wrote in VG on 1 March: ‘There is therefore no basis for claiming that the location of a gas power plant in Norway will globally increase CO2 emissions. On the contrary, this will lead to a reduction in global emissions.’ What remains is the following: the central parties cannot substantiate their claims. Neither NVE, SINTEF nor SFT gives them back coverage in the claim that European CO2 emissions are rising if we build gas power plants in Norway. The Ministry's own figures also speak its clear language. In 1996, Norway had to import large quantities of electricity, mainly from Denmark. The strong increase in our electricity consumption did not give a significant impact on Norway's CO2 accounts. Our consumption, on the other hand, broke out in the Danish CO2 account. In Denmark, CO2 emissions increased from 1995 to 1996 by around 14 million. tonnes. Had we had gas power plants, we would have saved the environment for large greenhouse gas emissions. Chief engineer Kjell Thorsen of the NVE is therefore well documented when he states in the newspaper on March 1: ‘When we increase imports, the activity of coal-fired power stations in other countries is increasing.’ It is good environmental policy to help reduce the activity of the Danish coal power plants, and that is also the objective of the Right. On the right-hand side, we have repeatedly called for the logic of the central parts' attitude to gas power plants. We have not received an answer. Building gas power plants in Norway presents the central policies as old-fashioned and poor environmental policies, almost as sinful. At the same time, Norway sells large quantities of gas to Europe so that they can fire up their gas power plants, not only with today's but also with yesterday's technology. In February 26, Olav Versto described this as ‘an almost unimaginable double morality’. The double morale that Versto points out is not diminished by the fact that in the future Norway will have to pledge to buy back electricity from those countries that have transformed the Norwegian gas into more or less modern gas power plants. The only place that according to the centre lots and others should not be possible to produce electricity from the Norwegian gas is in Norway. Understand it, whoever can! The opposition of gas power plants has used strong words in the political debate. There is talk of ‘bad and old-fashioned environmental policy’, and its followers are accused of ‘walking backwards into the future’. I would like to ask: is it bad environmental policy to ensure that Norway can replace highly polluting coal power imports with Norwegian gas power? Is it old-fashioned to use the most modern technology available? A yes to replace coal power imports with Norwegian gas, a yes to use modern technology, a yes to bet on research that can bring about new cleaning technology, and a yes to process some of the gas in Norway – it is not going backwards, but to go further into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e704	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e707	I have registered Jan Tore Sanner's and Right's strong commitment to putting in place framework conditions for those actors who want to expand gas power plants in Norway. This is very good, and I want of course the Right and Sanner welcome after. In his statement, Mr Sanner claims that they have been in the process of developing gas power plants in Norway for more than 10 years. However, I would like to remind the representative, Mr Sanner, of a document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party, which was dealt with in the Stortinget in 1998, aimed at facilitating the construction of a gas power plant in the Forest of Northern Trøndelag by Industrikraft Mid-Norway DA. This could not be right-hand support, and a shown one, among others. to the new technology recently launched by Norsk Hydro. What has happened since the right has changed its mind? Does the representative Sanner now realize that it was a mistake to wait for the technology mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e714	At the time described by Øyvind Vaksdal, it was not possible to obtain a majority in this collapse to change the framework conditions so that it was possible to build gas power plants in Norway. That majority is present now, that majority wants the Right to use, and I hope that the Progress Party is with the Right and the Labour Party later this evening when we're going to realise those opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e719	The representative Sanner said that the Right is ‘foreseeable’ in the gas power case, but we have seen a move now from the position to the position on how to deal with this matter. First, the Right considered that the pollution law should not apply to gas power plants, and it is stated in the document here, in Innst. S. No 123. But then, all of a sudden, the Right finds out that the pollution law is still in force; one assumes that one must operate within the framework of the pollution law, and one is sure that this is within the framework of the law. But then suddenly there's a proposal, yesterday, where you open up that it might not be within the scope of the law anyway, so it's very confusing what Right thinks about the pollution law. I must be allowed to ask the representative, Sanner, what is the Right Strategy in terms of reaching our commitments? In the past, the right has agreed that we should also implement national measures, and I have to ask: who should bear the costs of national measures? And then there was further confusion about this proposal that came from the Right and Workers' Party, as last night the representative Stoltenberg of Editorial Committee 21 gave an interpretation of this that gives a completely different meaning to what is in the proposal. He said the following: – When we have said June, it is not that we say everything should be put in place before 1 June, but we believe that during the spring it must be possible for the Government to decide whether it is possible to change these emission permits that are granted and make it impossible to build gas power plants within the law as it is today, or whether it is necessary to change the law and then make proposals for it. It must be possible to clarify before 1 June. Does the Workers' Party agree with this interpretation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e732	I thought the representative Rise had understood that there was no slippery mouth. Had the representative Rise studied the suspension more closely and seen the proposal made yesterday, he would understand that the Storting will decide on today is whether to change the terms of the emissions permits and whether to impose the same requirements on emissions in Norway as are common in the EEA area. The right and the Labour Party feel safe on the proposals we have made. We're not startled by the note that's submitted from the law department. On the contrary, we believe that it opens up precisely the solution we have described in the setting and our proposals. What we wanted, on the other hand, to open up is that if the Government believes that it is nevertheless necessary to amend the pollution law, then the Government must propose it. It is a regulatory adjustment, and it has to be done by 1 June. Today's decisions are taken. I must otherwise say that I am a little surprised that the center parties are not willing to discuss gas power today. I thought that's what we were invited to debate. We get a series of strange questions from the representative Rise that are not about the main issue, namely whether we are going to build gas power plants or not. The right believes that it is good environmental policy. I note that the center parties mean something different, but I'm a little surprised that they don't argue for it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e744	It is true that the right is predictable in the gas power case. The right has essentially had one measure, and it is that gas power is to be realized no matter what the price is, no matter what alliances you make. And when you hear Mr Sanner's comments, and the representative of the Progress Party here earlier today is talking about environmental policy, there must be some in the Workers' Party who feel very uncomfortable. This is where you've been in very bad company. What is also predictable is that the environment has never been an important issue for the Right. So the right hand side has a long tradition of never getting in the way of a single important environmental issue, nor in this case here, even if you spice your article with the word environment when you find it opportunistic. But then let me go to the Right half of the track and take as a starting point what the Right is predictable of – according to its own statement – namely gas power and industrial development. It does not look to the right of the point that has been raised by many: if you make demands on the industry, the industry will change, and in this way you will contribute to technological development. In Denmark, the second largest export article is wind power technology, not wind power. You export for 20 billion Danish dollars a year. The total value of Norwegian fish exports is approximately. 28 billion Norwegian kronor. This means that Danish exports of wind power technology are approaching the Norwegian level of fish exports. And that's clearly because you give incentives to develop a technology that wouldn't have been developed otherwise. The Right Party, the Labour Party and the Advance Party today, are the very opposite: they remove the requirements for industry and thus remove the incentive for technological development. A party like the Right, which traditionally should have been subject to such demands in order to get a development, is doing the exact opposite. So you don't make demands, you say you have to build an old-fashioned power plant to get technological development. That's not right. All scientists say the exact opposite. And if you really needed a power plant to explore technology, then there's a hundred gas plants on a Norwegian base. You can take your technology there and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e756	Jan Tore Sanner – then Gunnar Kvassheim, which is the last replicated so far. The President sees that the representative, Djupedal, is drawing a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e759	Maybe the representative Djupedal should listen to the answer before he sign up again? It's quite right, as Djupedal's representative says, that the right is predictable in the gas power case. We have had the same position for many years and are happy that we can now realize one of the promises that we have given our voters. Otherwise, the representative, Djupedal, asks an important question, and that is the question of whether to make demands on the industry. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Djupedal. Demands must be placed on industry, but we must not impose such strict requirements as to kill the initiative itself in the first place. What we're saying to the gas power plants is: Start with the best available technology that exists, it's the most modern technology that's applicable and that's profitable. And then the gas power plants and companies know that in 2008 they have to buy, they have to pay for their emissions through the flexible implementation mechanisms of the Kyoto Agreement. They also have predictability in addition to requirements. Then they have time to change. And I think they do well to use that time well, that's to bring forward the new technology. However, the question is whether the new technology is best developed on the drawing board, and Hydro came to an interesting conclusion. Because Hydro had to conclude with a year or so after they had played out their proposal on Hydropower, it was not possible to realize this on the drawing board in a short time. On the other hand, they recommended that we now open up gas power plants with the most modern technology available, and then use the time to develop the next generation of CO2-free gas power plants in the future. And that is what the Danes have done. They did not sit and wait to build windmills until they had the next generation windmills, they started with the windmills that were most modern at the time, and then they developed a new industry and developed new technology in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e775	Through the quote flood of which Jan Tore Sanner's contribution consisted, it sparkled a clear enthusiasm. This is obviously a great day for Jan Tore Sanner. I understand that, because he has the power to get the Workers' Party away from an absolute and above what was the Right's original proposal: an opening to change the pollution law if it is necessary to facilitate the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. But the enthusiasm shall not last long. Because whatever decision is taken here today, gas plants are being built in Norway. I believe that there is clearly a need to ensure that when a decision is taken on construction, it will be with the pure solutions that are both forward-looking and competitive. Unfortunately, the right has not been on the offensive in the environmental battle in recent years. In fact, it's just the party's youth organization, Willoch and some retired person who's in this environmental fight. There could be a basis for asking the former Young Right-leader Sanner whether it is such that one has to be in the youth organisation of the party or a retired person to be on the offensive in the environmental struggle. To the right, for the gas power plants to be built – whether or not to be built – up to 2008 it shall be free of CO2 emissions. We have national obligations, we have to show results by 2005, and we know that quotas will be scarce. Can Jan Tore Sanner tell which industries, which enterprises and which parts of the transport sector will pay the bill for gas power stations to be free passengers until 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e786	Let me first say that it's a great day for the Right. It's a big day for the Right because today we have the opportunity to realize a matter that has been important to us for very many years. We have been trailers of gas power plants for more than 10 years. That's because we believe that it provides opportunities for industrial and technological development in Norway, because we can process some of our gas here as well, and not just export everything, and because we have the opportunity to replace the highly polluting coal power imports with the cleaner Norwegian gas. Yesterday I took some time to read the government energy message settings from 1988. The interesting thing was that there was an overall committee that was at the time to open up gas power plants in Norway. The left was not a member of the committee – I don't know if the Left had the seat of the Stortingen in that period – but the Christian People's Party and the Center Party were followers of the construction of gas power stations in Norway during that period. So the representative Kvassheim says that he's not really afraid of the proposal, because it's the pure solutions that will be the most likely. Yes, I'd like that. Right is a trailer of CO2-free gas power plants. But we're not willing to spend billions of dollars in operating subsidies every year to get it done. That's what's at the heart of the matter. I would like to ask the representative Kvassheim – he might be able to answer later today: Where is the central government going to cut to get the operating subsidies you are going to give to power generation? Is that in the Health Budget? Is that in the school budget? I think that's an interesting question. We believe, on the other hand, that technological development is hampered by the kind of subsidies that the centre parties are obviously willing to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e797	I feel that the representative Sanner has not correctly answered one of the important questions raised here, namely, the requirements to be met by industry. There is no doubt for a moment that because authorities have constantly made demands — either changes in regulations and laws or in the form of fees or other incentives — industry has developed steadily. The country that has gone ahead in this way is the United States, which has constantly made demands that industry has felt are bloody unfair, but which industry has nevertheless had to meet. Take the requirement in the case of aircraft noise, where it was said in all aircraft factories in the world that it was totally unheard of to impose requirements in the case of aircraft noise. Then it only takes a few years, so the aircraft factories have been able to reduce the noise of the aircraft – just to take a random example – or, for that matter, the emissions of petrol engines. What the right here is doing is going against the conservative thinking that should have been. Conservative thinking should just be making demands, so that technological developments can take place. But the Right does not make a single claim! On the contrary, we must even change the law to allow the industry and the company, with the highly misleading name Natural Force, to realize a plan. It'll make no sense. Had you had a conservative, consistent thinking, the thinking around this would have been: OK, we're in – sorry, President – we don't care about the consumption and all the other issues related to the environment, we're concerned about industrial development. We're busy getting industry in Norway that's viable into the next century. So what do we do? Are we not demanding, or are we going to the industry and saying, "This is the technology of the future?" That's where the right goes completely blind. The power lobby and the industrial lobby have been overshadowed by what should have been a conservative, sensible thinking about how to manage to create a new technology in Norway that is forward-looking – as the Danes have done, and as the Americans have done in many respects. So this right over here has gone completely blind. Then my question becomes to the representative Sanner: does he not see the logic of the Kåre Willoch e.g. – which is a consistent, conservative gentleman – is concerned, related to exactly these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e806	The president appreciates the self-correction of the representative, and remembers the hall he's in.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e809	It was an interesting word game to say that the Right goes blind. I could maybe replicate back that the representative, Djupedal, obviously goes completely crazy. The key question here is whether or not gas-fired power stations built in Norway should be required. Requirements must be met. However, we shall not impose stricter requirements on gas power plants in Norway than are common in the EEA area. That's what's absolutely central. The result is that we do not have a gas power plant in Norway. Nor do we get the industrial development, technological development and environmental benefits of building gas power plants in Norway. We have also made it clear that when the Kyoto mechanisms are in place, when the Kyoto agreement enters into force, gas power stations will be purchasing emission allowances if they have not been able to obtain the new technology that makes it unnecessary. And it can be very powerful in some companies' accounts. If a gas power plant emits 2 million. tonnes of CO2 and the price is between 100 and 200 kroner per tonne. tonne, it'll be 200-400 million. kr per. years to compensate for emissions. And I am convinced that is a strong motivation for companies to invest in bringing forward the new technology. The alternative presented is that the state should pay for the new technology, and we feel that it will hamper further technological development. I'm also convinced that we have other ways of spending taxpayers' money than subsidising billions of power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e816	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e819	So it turns out again, this time in the energy and environmental committee settings, that the opposition to the Storting has a different view of gas power issues than the Government and environmental organisations – no sensation of course. The majority and minority have known about each other for a long time, and the plurality is in its full right to use its power. Logically, little is at odds with that – or as the representative Jens Stoltenberg said in a debate, freely quoted: We have found that the Labour Party has several figures in one important matter. Saka is on the map in Stortinget. Then we look for an impact on our policies. It's that simple. Nevertheless, some bells ring here, because the pride-berg logic of the plural right to trade is not an easy delivery gel in a democracy. If it's practiced square, it's like the elephant gets into the glass shop. Should the Government be able to function, it must not be in vain, and not too often pressed against the wall. Minority governments are particularly vulnerable. The expression ‘in utide’ is well illustrated in gas casks. In a situation where, for most economic reasons, construction of gas power plants is not relevant, the majority still see the problem at the head. The fact that the energy message was for handling in Stortinget is just barely enough argument that the majority had to push forward their vision right now. Thus, there is a lower dose of energy policy and the corresponding and higher doses of all other policies that are in focus. Saka has been lifted from the area of energy policy to the sphere of power policy. Equally full: The energy policy perspective seems to be the focus of this debate, because the message signals the will for innovation at several points. The environment shall hereinafter be the main reference point for the choice of future energy carriers. In order to deal with the demand for electricity beyond the potential of the hydropower, it shall be invested in alternative, renewable sources. The growth of consumption shall be reduced, including: through entropy. All of this signals a new trend, and it is a pleasure that a solid plurality in the Storting supports the principles of the Government. But then it turns out that the opposition so to speak at the same time does not take the consequences of the superior perspectives they otherwise claim. Despite the fact that gas power stations are out-of-date projects, the opposition must have its will, and it seems, in addition to the policy of power, to be based on a kind of notion that gas converted to electricity should essentially take over where the hydropower historically has to report passports, and I have to admit: it would be typical Norwegian to think so traditional. The problem is that realism in this mindset is not to boast. Environment and the economy block construction. The last point has been raised above all doubt, but strangely, we have a discussion about whether gas power stations are a good or bad environmental issue. The word'remarkable' is in place because it is obvious that it is more difficult to implement the Kyoto agreement in Norway when, after building them, we have to deal with 17.5 million emissions. tonnes of greenhouse gases. As members of an international allowances system, we will have to reduce over half of the emissions on a national basis. In Hordaland County, business as well as the environment are going to become a mess, because in my home country we have both high transport needs and power-consuming industries, and because emissions of NOx will be marked locally. Then there is a lean comfort that gas produced electricity might replace imports of Danish coal-fired power under certain conditions and only for a limited period of time. This is our point, and it's well documented by SFT. As we now see it, until 2010, we in Norway will, in addition to improving the efficiency of the hydropower system, bet on a range of non-traditional energy sources combined with energy savings, perhaps in an uncold time, because at the time when higher prices make it economically possible to build gas power, many other doors will also open. The great potential for the use of alternative sources of energy and some of it comes closer to realising it. And for all things: the gas is there to be used, including in Norway, as a source of water-borne heat and fuel in the transport system to welcome compensation for oil. Pioneering in the West should in all respects be encouraged, unimpeded by the battle for the construction of gas power stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e844	I'm gonna have to make a little regret first. In a previous line, I was injured to say that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are very much in agreement with energy policy. Of course, I meant on the question of gas power plants. The whole line was about gas power plants, and I expect most people to understand that it was in the matter of gas power plants that I thought we agreed with the Progress Party. But since such shortcuts tend to be used for what they're worth, I just want to stress it – for safety's sake. So to the Center Party: I have always imagined that the Center Party is a party that wants to exploit Norwegian natural resources in Norway, and not just export raw materials. Now it is obvious that in the issue of Norwegian gas Norway will only export. Incomprehensible quantities of Norwegian gas are to be exported to the continent – we are to allow the countries that produce, create values, further process this gas and create jobs. So we're exporting gas to Europe, they're streaming it, and we're importing it back. Does not the Central Party also think that this is a wonderful policy? Can John Dale explain why it is good environmental policy that we first export gas and then import it back as electricity after other countries have further processed what is a Norwegian raw material?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e853	It is important to be aware of what I strongly emphasised in my post, that we have gas in Norway, and that there is an energy source that we are going to use – also for production in Norway. This is where there has to be an offensive. Unfortunately, the question of using gas directly in Norway comes in the shadow of the gas power debate. It is now time to look at the possibilities of bringing gas directly into the areas of the country where there are a lot of people, where gas can enter the transport system, into buildings and industrial installations – i.e. where gas can really be used to replace oil. There's a big environmental policy gain, there can't be any doubt. So I support the absolute use of gas in Norway. But the issue that is at issue is whether we're going to convert the gas into electricity. Then there's some counter-portraits that we stumble on. One of these counter-figures is that there is a relatively small amount of energy that will then be translated for useful use. It's the one. It is a moment that has been a little mentioned in the debate. But the most important thing is the emissions that will come from such a process. In that situation, we must stick to the Kyoto Protocol, to the international commitments that we have been willing to accept. And it's in that perspective that the construction of gas power plants in Norway is extremely problematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e862	As a representative of a forward-looking and environmental party that is really concerned with the challenges we face, I must say that I am surprised at the views of the Central Party in this matter. The position of the centre party on imports in other contexts, e.g. of agricultural products – meat – from abroad, that is to say that one must have closures, then one must make it difficult. But when it comes to processing the natural resources we have in our own country, and getting a value creation, it seems that the central party's big group has not fully understood the seriousness of this matter, despite the fact that the former centre party bastion Nord-Trøndelag is in Harnish over its own party. We in the Progress Party believe that, with the attitude they have taken in this matter, the Centre Party is further involved in making it difficult for Norwegian households to keep tight budgets, as the Centre Party and the government parties have signalled that electricity prices in Norway must rise because we have a deficit in force. Either the prices must rise, or the whole country – every knuckle, every height where there is a small wind blow – must be filled with windmills, according to the central party's policy. My natural question to the Center Party in this matter is: is it subsidised windmills and high electricity prices that are going to meet the challenge of processing the power we have in the country, in a proper way that brings economic benefits to Norway as a nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e873	Now there's not a high power price that's typical of the situation we're in. This may indicate that what is referred to as a power crisis is perhaps an exaggeration. It is probably possible that with the large consumption that we have, the demand for energy, and especially for electricity, will become so that prices can be pushed up. We have to be careful about that. But there's no reason to overdramatize the situation, as it is today. There were several elements in the question that were asked of me – I have to say that I perceive everything – but I seemed to hear a concern that Norway had to import some electricity. It is almost a tragedy that Norway has to import force from time to time. What I'm going to ask you is whether there's any reason to react that way. What we have to think about is that Norway is a member of the Nordic and Northern European power markets for the longest time, and there is force in many directions. It's a completely natural process, and it's also in Norwegian interest that it happens. But what we have to take care of is that energy supply does not conflict with fundamental environmental considerations. And it's in this last context that we have problems when we're going to phase in gas power in Norway based on the existing plans that we know about. This is where the battle starts. So I would like to remind you that when it is constantly shown that imports from Denmark are problematic from an environmental point of view, one must be aware that, after all, there is a passing phenomenon, because Denmark is also forced to follow up on its part of the Kyoto agreement, and Denmark is actually in the process of doing so. There is no reason why Norway should behave worse during this course.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e884	In the Central Party, there are many who disagree with what the members of the Government of the Central Party believe. I'll take a little pinch here: ‘Two years ago, in May, Brerk threw himself into the domestic gas power struggle. As a challenge to the plans of Forest, he would mobilize Outer Namdal in the fight for gas power stations on the Lav Island." And then we have another quote: ‘But here we have to look at the option that, for us, is the import of electricity from abroad produced by highly polluting coal-fired power plants.’ That is what Central Party rapporteur Ole Överland said. ‘I have the contacts necessary to inform Minister of Oil and Energy, Marit Arnstad, that Hydro needs to have working conditions such as the Sunndalsøra and Høyanger need. And the working conditions are more power. [[gas power]] That's what county rapporteur Nils Sandal said. ‘If the question of gas power plants in Forest is put to the fore properly, I think it will be difficult for politicians to say no to this project.’ That's what Reidar Due said. ‘I cannot understand that it is worse to bet on gas power stations in my own country than to carry gas in pipes to the continent, where other countries can use it in the same way.’ It was Reidar Due again. ‘It is more important for the county to obtain gas power for industrial travel in the North Trøndelag than for the centre government to sit down.’ Is the representative of Dale agreeing with these reports that it is important to have industrial travel in the districts, or is it just flakes that the Central Party usually comes with in the field of industrial travel?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e920	The President will ask Mr Johnsen to read Section 40 of the Rules of Procedure relating to quotations and their use in detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e923	The representative Johnsen is well aware that the Centre Party has an active view of promoting industrial travel in the country, and especially in relation to the energy policy that is to take the lead in the country. I don't feel there's any reason to answer the question that was raised about that point, because I don't interpret it as a challenge. Then the representative presented a pinch of announcements from the debate on gas power plants. And it's true, as these statements show, that there has been a lively and strong and very committed debate on this issue, which also shows the breakup that often has between local and national interests. But I think the government is standing firm and good when one argues that we have to focus on the environment. It is the pillar of the Energy Communication where the environment is the pre-dispenser of the energy policy choices we are going to make in the future. When, in addition, the Government will make it possible to generate nearly impurity-free gas power plants, it is a good thing, and there is a line that should be decomposed. It is a line that combines environmental policy and industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e932	In working on the energy communication in the Committee, SV has been involved in the vast majority of proposals that the central government has put forward, and we think they point in a concrete, environmental policy direction. Of course, the SV, which prioritises environmental policy, has a number of other proposals that would have improved the setting if the majority had included them – about water-borne heat, to reduce consumption and to make consumption more efficient. My first question is about energy efficiency and gas power. John Dale and I have visited gas power plants in the Netherlands with an energy efficiency of 90 pst. None of the options listed above, which are intended for Norway, have such a high efficiency. Therefore, SV considered it important for the Storting to say something about what one thinks about this, because it has of course also to do with environmental policies. SV therefore has a proposal – if any, if a gas power plant decision is adopted today, which one seems to have – that one should require them to be as effective as the best in the EEA area. What is the reason why the Centre Party and Centre do not adhere to such an environmental requirement? The last question goes on with state ownership. Natural power, which the state indirectly owns through its companies, has now been training the policy that the central government has pursued when it comes to gas power plants. What consequences does John Dale see that this should have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e941	The centre part and SV are essentially some of the issues of gas power plants. But the question that was raised here gives me the opportunity to get an extra point, and that is, to establish a gas power plant in our time on a profitable basis, must at least provide that the waste heat from such gas plants can be exploited to water-borne heat, and that, so to speak, it is a premise that gas power stations are then located in the populace area where these possibilities can fully come to justice. It is an experience made in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, a strong effort is being made to maintain the profitability of existing gas power stations, and they point out that, to the extent that they are going to move forward, they have to invest in building very large gas power stations, where they can benefit from possible side effects. It looked at the debate on gas power plants in Norway in a certain perspective, I thought. Then the representative of Langeland referred to the forces of nature to gain his support in the political environment. I agree that the procedure used here can reflect a situation in the country that is somewhat more general, because what we see now is that in Norwegian energy supply we have a mix of market and public ownership. And there might be problems here. In any case, it may be thought that such an episode could be involved and stimulate the debate on public ownership. I am very much in favour of having a public ownership, but the debate should focus on how to make the best use of the possibilities of this ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e948	John Dale claimed in a previous reply to a reply that the import of electricity from Denmark is a passing problem. That's completely wrong. The problem is that consumption in Norway is rising every year. At the same time, we do not increase the production of power in Norway. Therefore, for every year that goes, we need to import more electricity. Whether we import it from Denmark, or whether we import it from other countries, is not the most interesting in itself, but the issue is that Norway is becoming more and more dependent on imports. A second question to the Centre Party is this with regard to the development of industry through the use of gas. That's exactly where we agree. It opens up too wide a perspective for industrial development in Norway if we continue to process gas. But it doesn't come of itself. It doesn't count on a mountain down the river, nor does it descend from the sky to get industrial development using gas. Public funds are needed initially to develop infrastructure. And if the Center Party is for this, why aren't you willing to be on proposals that open up to spend money to get to infrastructure around it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e956	The point I tried to make earlier in the line change was that it is not problematic in itself that we have a power exchange in the Nordic region, and that we export and import power. It's a system that we want us to have, and it's absolutely in Norwegian interest that that system works effectively. But what's pointed out as a problem is that it's environmental, that within this system there's a certain portion of coal-fired electricity, and it's then used as an argument in the Norwegian gas-fired debate. My point was that it is this phase-in of coal-fired electricity that is a passing phenomenon in Denmark. We're talking about a gradual winding-up of this. We have to keep up with the fact that the polluting gas power plant will have a life span of between 20 and 30 years. When we are in such a situation, I thought it would be self-evident what we should do in a gas case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e961	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e964	Something's not right here. In order to build a highly impurising gas power plant, we must, if necessary, amend the pollution laws, which Jagland improved a few years ago, and on which Jens Stoltenberg now wants to change. It is best for the environment, says the comrades in the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right. It was also best for the environment when the development of the Upper Otta and Shooting Field was adopted by the same ‘good boys’. Does the Labour Party really think that the best environmental solutions exist in collaboration with the Right and the Progress Party? Is it really the case that SV and a collective environmental movement do not understand what is good climate and environmental policy, but that it is the Progress Party, the Right and the Labour Party that have it? Anyone who wants to see can see that this doesn't hang on to something, as we say in Rogaland. Nobody, nor the Labour Party, believes that climate policy is better off choosing solutions with the Progress Party, the party that thinks it is not a climate problem. The run from the Workers' Party, the Progress Party and the Right in the gas-powered sacs has made sure that environmentally friendly and forward-looking options have been put in the background. The government's attempt to take the climate challenge seriously has been suffocated in gas power cases. Many people may wonder why we care about the climate problems. They're not dangerous, says the Progress Party. In recent years, we have seen a large increase in climate-related disasters. We think 'El Niño', we think 'Mitch' and the many deaths in Venezuela, and in the last days thousands of people are rammed by a devastating and killing flame and storm in Mozambique. It is impossible to say that disasters have caused directly the greenhouse effect, that they have caused a gas power plant or a coal power plant, but one thing is certain: if we do not reduce our emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases monthly, the number and intensity of different extremes in the future will increase. We'll get more drought, we'll get more storm, we'll get more flooding. Therefore, the tragedy in Mozambique should be a reminder that we have a responsibility not only to help now, but to avoid similar tragedy in the future. What would be a debate on energy policy in a new millennium in the light of the new challenges created by the greenhouse effect has been reduced to a debate on gas power plants or not. So big is the screaming lack of visions and thoughts about a forward-looking energy policy. That's what we should have discussed here today. SV has ended in energy message processing if the profile this message was created. In the final phase, SV has now also joined in the exploration, technology development and development of so-called CO2-free technologies, with the exception of a government proposal on the construction and subsidisation of one or more such gas power plants. In this context, it is important to be aware that no party supports SV’s proposal that energy efficiency must be as good as that of the best gas power plants in the EEA region. As you know, energy efficiency is no more than just over 50 pst. on the Kollsnes plant, and the Committee has seen on its own initiative in the Netherlands that there is a 90 pst operation. energy efficiency. Then it is a little surprising that the government party does not support such a requirement for any gas power in Norway. The Ole Brumm politicians in the Labour Party say yes, thank you, both, we want everything. However, it is possible to inject large amounts of fossil energy from highly impurising gas into the Norwegian market, without having consequences for the environmentally friendly alternatives – gas power that has a lifetime of about 10 years. Thirty years? I believe that the decision that will be taken here today looks back on environmental policy and the climate challenge. That's too bad. SV and a group of environmental stirrers look at the working party as well as their friends. Then we know who the Working Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e993	In the setting for the energy message SV and the representative Hallgeir Langeland say as follows: ‘... The Socialist Left Party is convinced that gas power plants are not the right answer to the energy policy challenges we have today and in the years to come and reject the fact that the construction of conventional gas power plants can be produced as an environmental project.’ That gas power plants alone are not quite right to say, but we know that the construction of gas power plants will bring significant environmental benefits. This has been confirmed by consultations within the Committee, where both SINTEF and SFT confirmed this in the submitted material. The same thing says NVE in the concession given to Natural Power. In fact, the NVE believes that CO2 emissions are halved. The question of SV then becomes: Does SV and Langeland research and the conclusions of the scientific community? If he does, on what basis does SV build its doubt? I sincerely hope that it is not just SV's jumping ideology that lies at the root.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1005	My seconds make me aware that I have to take up the suggestions. It's done with it. So to the question from the Labour Party's representative. The working party thinks like that: when the consumption in Norway grows, we have to increase production. SV thinks like that: we have a consumption crisis. Too much energy is used, and energy is used ineffectively. Then we have to do something about it. We shall not produce new, strongly impurising power into the market; we must do anything with the production we have. The Labour Party knows just as well as SV that there is a number of options, and the Labour Party is actually involved in some of the options proposed by the Government. But the problem for the Workers' Party is that they stick together with the Progress Party and the Right to build highly impure gas power stations that will destroy the alternatives. In the past, the Labour Party understood this. When we changed the pollution laws to make stricter demands, the Labour Party understood this. Now I don't understand the Workers' Party, because now it looks like they're looking for government and looking away from pollution laws and everything, and forgetting environmental policies. The representative Pedersen said she didn't know SV again. I have to return it and say that when it concerns the Workers' Party, I think they are completely unknown in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1014	The President assumes that Mr. Mr Langeland took up the proposal No. 10-15 in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1017	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1022	I am not surprised by the double morals that SV has in this case, and I have taken Langeland earlier on the double morals that he manages to perform. However, I'll get to work on first Djupedal's attack on the Right and also say a little bit to Langeland. Indeed, it is the case that the Right has an excellent environmental policy. In fact, the right hand part is the one that has fronted the best environmental solution of heating up to now in this landfill, and I'm now thinking about heat pumps. There is nothing better to use than heat pumps. And if we do, we'll be able to meet the Kyoto agreement. In fact, if we replace all oil-fired plants with heat pumps, we will do more than fulfill the Kyoto agreement. Now I know that the representative of Langeland agrees with this. Therefore, I think it is an premature attack by SV to bring such things as they do, towards the Right. Usually SV is concerned with industrial travel and workplaces, but in this case they talk very little about it. And then my question becomes SV and the representative Langeland: What industry, which industrial workers, is what has asked SV to go as high on the ground in this matter as they do, by refusing to build the fine, beautiful gas power plants that will replace emissions from oil and coal and let us not use nuclear power in Norway? What industry is it that has asked SV to stand on the barricades in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1029	The President believes that there might be reason to think about heat exchange in more than one context. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1034	It's interesting, I think, that Right is indignant on SV because we care about them in environmental policy, but it's not harder than that, Johnsen, President, it's just to see what they're doing in practice. That's what's interesting for SV when it comes to major environmental issues. And now let's think about it. What did Right do when it came to expanding and destroying a lot of nature in shooting-field cases? What, then, did they do? What did they do when it came to expanding Norwegian watercourses, Upper Otta? What did Right do then? All this and the matter today when it comes to building impure gas power plants, tell us where Right is holding. Then, of course, the Right should have a reward for its efforts for heat pumps. But there's something going on with these heat pumps, Jan Johnsen, President, when you're about to build a very gas power plant to compete them out! That's the problem with Johnsen. Industrial issues, President, how can you develop new technologies? In the North Sea, it was actually ready to build a so-called CO2-free gas power plant, but because the Right and others changed the fees, one of the industrial project ended. An end to developing that technology because of a missing incentive. And it's the same right doing here today. They are behind when it comes to environmental policy. They don't bet offensively on the industry that future needs. That's Right's problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1042	For the record, sir. Langeland. The President is sitting here, sir. Johnsen's in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1045	I share the President's concern regarding heat exchange, but the President should consider that Mr. Johnsen's vocabulary consists only of capital letters. As far as SV's energy policy is concerned, I am pleased to say that SV has concluded on most of the government parties' proposals. They are also involved in the key elements of the package submitted to stimulate the construction of CO2-free gas power plants. But they're not on a point where you add up to exempt investment taxes and other taxes for a period of up to five years. And I wonder if the skepticism that Langeland and SV have for this scheme to produce CO2-free technology is due to the misunderstanding that Jan Tore Sanner expressed earlier in a line exchange. Instead of answering the question I asked Sanner, he gave the wrong answer to a question that was not asked. What's the point of the package to which this is added is not to take money from other chapters in the budget and use them to produce clean technology, but it is to renounce parts of future tax and tax revenue that will not come if we don't build on this clean technology and get gas power plants based on it. So my question is whether SV would like to see the government come back with a plan to stimulate the construction of gas power plants with clean technology. In last year's debate there has been a characteristic of SV that they have had a strong and burning desire to get back a workers' party government. I would have liked to hear a little about how that commitment now stands in the light of developments in the gas power debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1054	The last question about the Workers' Party's policy in this area, I tried to document thoroughly in my main post, namely that I thought this from the Labour Party's point of view was a betrayal of environmental policy, and that it is ridiculous to claim that something is environmentally friendly when one is with the Right Party and the Progress Party against the SV and the Environmental Movement. Everyone who wants to see sees that it's spinning, hacking crazy. So what's a little bit of a wound to the center, that we don't support all of the points, is going to happen, for example. of our skepticism to participate in subsidising solutions that are not the best purely environmental policy. SV wants the best environmental solutions, we want to capture the best environmental options, and then we start in my opinion and SV doesn't. Then we focus on the known environmental solutions we have: energy efficiency, on econy, on heat pumps, on bioenergy and on solar – because they don't rely on fossil fuels, that's the starting point. SV, as the representative points out, will be involved in developing this technology, but we do not believe that it will be put into effective use in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1061	No one else has asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1064	The Energy Communication raises many important issues, and it is gratifying that the Government joins in most areas. There is new evidence that the central government does not administer Norwegian policy, but changes Norwegian policy in important areas in line with the ambition of the Adult Declaration. One of the areas in which a change in Norwegian policy is the most important thing that the representative of Langeland said was to get ahead with the work on an emerging and alternative energysources. There it is at the heart of a big bet, and that big bet brings the government up to. But in addition, there is an important gap in gas power, whether we should facilitate the development of clean technology or go for the old, outdated solutions. At this point, the Government has not received any agreement. When I was elected to Stortinget, I rejoiced to participate in shaping Norwegian environmental policy in cooperation with the Workers' Party. This was based on me getting into a committee with Jens Stoltenberg, Gunn Karin Gjul and Olav Akselsen – the central people in the Norwegian environment debate for many years. But instead of the Centre being able to find solutions with the Workers' Party in this Committee on Environmental Issues, we feel that the Workers' Party chooses the Advance Party and in some cases the Right as partners in determining important issues. They did so in the gas power case, in the Upper Otta and in the case of the firing range. What's consistent with all of these things is that these allies are confronted with an overall environmental movement. Norway has been seen as a leading country in environmental policy. One of the former leaders of the Workers' Party shall have its share of the credit for it. Reported by new leaders, the Labour Party is now lowering its ambitions so that Norway can, rightly, be experienced as an environmental sink. What is worrying and disappointing is that when you lower the level of ambition, you add a list so low that the Workers' Party and the Right can get over at the same time. And not enough with that, one also facilitates that the Advance Party can pass the list in the same style as the Workers' Party. Until yesterday, there was a discussion that the list was too low when it came to gas power plants. Yesterday we experienced that the list was removed. Now the last restrictions in the case of gas power plants were to be removed, namely the restriction in relation to the pollution law, which the Workers' Party has been subject to. Thorbjørn Jagland has said very important and true in the last year, among other things. he has had a burning commitment to people's interest in politics and to the credibility of politicians in meeting voters. It has actually been that, when he has been challenged by the pollution law, I have been offended by the fact that someone could suggest that the Workers' Party would not stand by the fact that it was an absolute fact that the pollution law would not be changed when gas power plants were to be granted a concession for emissions. In a letter to his constituents in January this year, Thorbjørn Jagland wrote: ‘In other words, the working party has not turned around in the gas power case. We believe that it is neither necessary nor right to amend the pollution law." There is a central point in today's debate to establish whether it is still as Igland says, that it is not right to amend the pollution law if it proves necessary to grant the desired emission concession to gas power plants. What has happened to the Workers' Party is that they have moved from opportunity to opportunity in the gas power debate. I don't think they give up all credibility on an important environmental issue because they want to serve the environment. I think they're doing it because this is about power. The new parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party argues, as some of his predecessors have done, that in terms of power, not only is most possible, but the necessary instruments must be implemented. It disappoints the Left that there was little interest in environmental issues in previous elections. We wanted to put this on the agenda, but we failed to reach it. We believe and hope that the gas power debate we have now does not result in the building of gas power plants, but that there will be a strong commitment to environmental issues to the next elections, and that it can be an environmental choice. Then this debate and this process can have a happy outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1087	I would first like to make the comment that it seems that there is not only one representative in this room who uses capital letters. So I want to comment on this a little bit with gas power. Brother Yngve Rahm admitted in a previous reply today that Norway will in future be dependent on imports of energy from abroad. A party trap of Kvassheim pronounced for approx. a year ago it was politically immoral to rely on coal power and nuclear power produced abroad, while at the same time declaring himself to be a principal opponent of such power generation. The Per Tore Woie party case was no one, either, when he said this, he was actually Secretary of State to the Prime Minister responsible for energy policy. He also has a background from the environmental movement as a member of the board of Bellona. My question is almost identical to what I asked Brother Yngve Rahm: What kind of morality is it, what kind of moral attitudes is it to export gas to Europe equivalent to 100 gas power plants, when the Government does not find it environmentally sound to use the gas in Norway? Oil and gas extraction and oil and gas revenues are important prerequisites for maintaining our welfare society. What kind of double morals is it, to accept the income from something that is completely environmentally irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1096	I agree with the representative that it is important to facilitate the use of gas in Norway to a greater extent than now. This has been taken into account in the setting, as it is available. In the case of gas power plants, we have two choices. We can either go for the old solutions with technology now available, or we can make it possible for gas power stations to operate with CO2-free technology. Both possibilities may be available at the same time if we wish, and both options may be available at the same time with the same contribution from the public. It may be subsidized in two ways, either in the event of the loss of future tax revenue or of part of tax revenue, as the Government provides, or it may be subsidized as the Workers' Party and the Right will, by freeing up gas power stations in the case of CO2 emissions, and then moving the bill for it to other industries, other enterprises and to the transport sector. Then it is much better to arrive at the desired result by contributing via government withdrawal of tax revenue. What's exciting now is that this new technology seems to be near at hand if we facilitate it through framework conditions. That's also why Per Tore Woie, who has wanted to use the gas, now says that we're in a situation where it's possible to reach the new forward-looking solutions if you want. That's the course he wants to go – not bet on the old-fashioned technology. What else should worry the Labour Party representative much more than that she was able to find out one in the Left who had a different view, is this division in her own party that goes in the middle of the big group and between the youth organisations and the mother party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1109	The Left Government Party is clearly opposed to facilitating the construction of gas power stations in the very near future. It is also clear that the Left Party would rather import contaminated coal power from Denmark. The government also made sure to stop the full expansion of Upper Otta, which was a so-called pollution-free power generation. What is the government really after? Is it desirable that the rural areas in this country should not be able to produce the goods that are needed because they do not want to expand power generation? Or is it that we would rather take care of our Danish friends and coal-fired power stations in Denmark, which is the main argument of the Government? I want to bring the debate to a slightly different level – because even though the debate is about what is involved in gas power plants, it is actually a pretty big message that the government has presented – namely windmills and that part of power generation, because now it is spreading windmills around this country, out on hollows and cutting along the coast, with the visual pollution that this results in, and especially in relation to the small power generation that this represents. My question to the Left is: do you not see the visual pollution that is about to occur along the coast with the highly subsidized wind power development that the Government is in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1118	As far as wind power is concerned, it is obvious that there are great opportunities. And what's positive is that it's already clear that the estimate contained in the Energy Communication to get wind-generated energy equal to 3 TWh is within reach and more than that. It could be implemented through solutions that are adapted in accordance with local concerns in order to protect the environment. It is quite obvious that wind power does not fit everywhere and that the environment should be assessed locally in that context. But it is equally clear that there are great opportunities in the process of being exploited, which can be a good contribution to environmental policy. I also noticed that the progress party representative Nesvik is concerned about the consequences for the districts of what we are doing today. So am I. I am of the clear opinion that the approach taken by the majority to allow gas power stations to benefit from the free release of CO2 until 2008, means that the bill is being increased for someone else. And among the others who have to pay, businesses — including in the districts — are the transport sector, which is not least dependent on the districts. So the logic behind a care for the districts should have been that one was of the opinion that the polluter would pay, and not that one sent the bill to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1125	When I hear the representative Gunnar Kvassheim talk about gas power plants, it reminds me most of all of him who takes a blindfold and complains that everything looks so black. Kvassheim is not prepared to take on board the fact that the new type of gas power plant currently planned represents significant progress in relation to previous technologies, primarily because they have an efficiency of between 50 and 60 p.p., towards previously beyond 30 p.p., they have significantly lower investments and pollute less than both nuclear power plants and new coal power plants. If I have understood Mr Kvassheim's right, the Left believes that it is entirely okay that Norway sells significant amounts of gas that generate CO2 emissions to Europe. It's also okay for the Left that we import electricity produced from highly polluting coal power. So it's okay to import power into Scandinavia from Poland that burns lignite that emits four times as much CO2 as gas power. Indeed, it is also good that Norway buys back electricity produced by Norwegian gas abroad, but producing the same power in Norway would, according to the Left, cause serious environmental consequences. Nor does the government object to Norway extracting coal from Svalbard used for energy production. But using gas that gives less emissions in Norway is wrong. Either this is a double morality, or there's a logic here that no one else understands. I choose to believe that this is the last, and therefore I ask the representative Kvassheim to explain the logic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1137	The representative Burnde had a description of how I was heard in my post. I guess it sounds something like it does at the Young Right National Meeting when one of them decides not to go in for the expansion of gas power plants, or it sounds kind of like when Kåre Willoch expresses his strong commitment to the polluting gas power plants. My advice to the representative Burnde and others in the Big Right Group is that they often lend ear to Willoch. With regard to the alleged paradox that we export large quantities of gas to Europe and at the same time want to develop CO2-free technology in Norway, it is up to us to put the issue completely at the head. In my opinion, it is that the most important part of our gas will be exported to Europe. I am in favour of using a larger part in Norway, but at the same time I want to help us develop technologies that allow gas power plants in Norway and in Europe to produce energy with much less negative impacts on the environment – so I definitely think that there is logic in my reasoning. In addition, Brende is based on a misunderstanding, namely that if we build gas power plants in Norway, it is of great importance for the production of coal power in Denmark. Such a relationship is impossible to document. A representative of the Danish Energy Agency says that it is not possible to establish with certainty that gas power plants in Norway will affect coal power production in Denmark. I think he's right about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1146	SV is at the centre of most of the issues when we are dealing with energy messages today. But there is one point where I feel the Left weakens its environmental profile, that is, this with energy efficiency associated with any gas power plant. SV has a proposal that the energy efficiency of any gas power plant should be as high as the best solutions in Europe. It will say 90 p.m., as for example Kvassheim itself knows, in relation to the ROCA gas power plant in the Netherlands. So my question is, why doesn't the Left follow up this angle? After all, it is a very important matter linked to environmental policy. The second question is what has happened in relation to Natural Power. In 1997, we saw that Hydro was raising the Working Party out of a difficult situation when it came to gas power. This year we see that Natural Power, owned by Hydro, Statkraft and Statoil, once again helps to train the Government's policy through a strong cooperation with the Labour Party and the Right. How does Left evaluate this, and what consequences, if any, do they relate to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1153	In advance of today's debate, there has been a review of the legal aspects of gas power plants and pollution law. In this context, there has been some kind of sponsorship cooperation between the Right and the Workers' Party and the Natural Force. Natural power is owned by Hydro, Statkraft and Statoil. They have produced legal references of which the Right and the Workers' Party are said to have benefited a great deal. These have not been possible for others to access. I think that is a significant problem. When the Government presented an inquiry from the Justice Department, it became the basis for the general debate; it could be verified in public. It could not be the basis on which the Right and Workers' Party had, and which they thought they had a great advantage of. It's worrying that natural forces act like this and say they do because they're interested in this game. And it is worrying that the Workers' Party and the Right do not see that this is objectionable. Statoil said that this could not be handed over to the representative Kvassheim because it was commercial documents. Per-Kristian Foss said to Today's Business that it was party-internal documents. I hope they're not both at the same time. In the wake of this, a debate should be held on the state companies and the way in which they organise themselves on issues like this. Because I have a strong commitment in this area, I chose to focus most on this. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, I also believe that there is a need to focus heavily on the future development of gas power plants in Norway, and then it is clear that some of the proposed projects are definitely not located where we get the best energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1164	For the last three weeks, I've been looking for someone from the centre party who could be willing to discuss gas power, why they're opposed and why they want to bet on imports instead. I have not found that, and I did not hear that there was a theme in Kvassheim's articles. The government has as its policy that they do not want permanent cooperation in the Stortinget, they want to cooperate on a case-by-case basis. The Prime Minister has, at various times, said that it is not who is cooperating with, but what one is working with about which is important. Of course, I respect the fact that the government parties work to make their policies work, but then we demand respect back when we work for what we stand for. One can actually get the impression that there's something a little suspicious when the Labour Party is able to get a plurality of a policy that we've had since 1996. Although we are foresaw in the Labour Party, we did not make our decisions in 1996 to impose a government from the center of defeat. Maybe it's as simple as the Workers' Party thinks it's right to open up for the construction of gas power plants in Norway? I could imagine asking if Kvassheim can't see that the other party also has the right to work and get multiple numbers because what they think is the right policy, without making it something suspicious, as I feel Kvassheim is producing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1175	It is not only respectable that different parties have different views also on the construction of gas power plants, it is also natural. But what I'm disappointed and worried about is that when we start a debate with different starting points, what's going to be fixed sizes, what's the given assumptions, changed as one wins the argument. I have experienced that as the government parties have come on the offensive and cleared up things that were in the debate, the Workers' Party is still moving. When SFT gave his permission, it was ok, said Jens Stoltenberg. When the appeal decision came from the Ministry of the Environment, it was okay. So it's been the way it says in the newspaper today that Thorbjørn Jagland said in a letter to the voters in January: ‘In other words, the working party has not turned around in the gas power case. We believe that it is neither necessary nor right to amend the pollution law." It must be allowed to be fundamentally disappointed that it will not now be possible to resolve the gas-electricity issue without changes to the pollution law. What I am disappointed about is not that we disagree, but that it is not possible to hold a debate where what was fixed sizes when we started becomes fixed sizes when we get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1187	So the chord change is over. The next speaker is Jens Stoltenberg, then Steinar Bastesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1192	Norway is an energy nation. We have significant hydropower production, and we export large amounts of oil and gas. Despite this, during the 1990s we have become dependent on importing significant amounts of electricity. This year, with normal rainfall and temperature, we now have a power loss of about 9 TWh, which is equivalent to the power of about 15 Alta power plants. Only this year, with an unusual amount of rainfall or mild winters, we produce enough power to cover our own consumption. According to the Government’s Energy Communication, the power deficit will increase in the coming years, even if efforts for energy saving and alternative energy are stepped up. The government proposes that this power deficit be covered by increased imports. It sets no limit on how much force it thinks Norway can import. We have a power deficit in Norway, but we don't have a power shortage. The deficit is covered by importing power from other European countries. We are pleased that there is agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre parties on a strong commitment to energy saving and renewable energy sources. We support the Government's proposal to limit consumption, and we support the commitment to new forms of energy such as bioenergy and wind power. But this effort is very close enough to avoid increasing dependence on polluting imports. It is presented by the Government's own message. This is why the Workers' Party opens up so that we can build gas power in Norway. We believe that this is better for the environment, and that also means that we are processing a Norwegian raw material in Norway. In the long term, it would be pointless for us to export large quantities of gas to, among other things. Power generation in a number of European countries, in order to re-import power from the same countries. It is a bad business policy, it is a bad energy policy and it is also a bad environmental policy. Of course, Norwegian gas power will increase CO2 emissions in Norway, but total emissions will be significantly lower. Many professional bodies provide evidence of this, including: SINTEF describes the situation as follows: ‘No to gas power leads paradoxically enough to increased CO2 emissions.’ This is a quote from the documents submitted by SINTEF to the Energy and Environment Committee in its work on the Communication. The fact that Norwegian imports lead to increased emissions in our neighbouring countries has also been seen in practice. In the years that Norway and Sweden imported a lot of power from Denmark, Danish CO2 emissions increased significantly. Yes, in 1996, they increased by nearly 20 pst., or 13 million. tonnes of CO2. In the years in which imports from Denmark have decreased, Danish emissions have also decreased. It's hard to say that it's a mere coincidence. Of course, this is because they produce more coal power when we import a lot from them. Coal and oil power stations represent the reserve power supply capacity in northern Europe. The bigger our imports are, the more part of this capacity will be exploited. Now we're also connecting to Germany and the Netherlands, and we're about to connect to Poland. There is a lot of free coal-fired capacity that is significantly more polluting than the coal-fired capacity we have so far been connected to. So there is no doubt that reduced import dependency in Norway means reduced total greenhouse gas emissions. The planned gas power plants in Norway will use the most advanced and environmentally friendly technology currently available in gas power generation. Then we all want us to succeed in developing the technology even better, so that we get even more environmentally friendly gas power technology that we can put into use. Therefore, we do not disagree with the desire for even more environmentally friendly gas power technology, the disagreement is about how to achieve that goal as quickly as possible. And then the majority of the committee believes that using the most advanced technology we have today increases the chances of us developing that knowledge and expertise that makes us develop even better technology in the future. This has been the case in almost all other areas: we haven't got new technology by sitting still and waiting, we've got new technology by getting started, for example. in the oil industry, and from there, further develop technology to become world leader, with ever-new technological innovations. In addition, we make it clear that gas power stations will be required to purchase allowances once an allowance system is in place. This means substantial costs, which means that it will already be profitable today to invest considerable resources in technology development – much more profitable to do so with gas power stations than if one can import freely without gas power plants. So we think we're getting CO2-free technology, even more environmentally friendly technology, by starting now than by waiting. It is uncertain when we can get so-called CO2-free gas power plants, but what is absolutely certain is that while we wait, the dependence on importing more and more polluting power increases. A majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment has proposed that the Government should take measures to convert the emission permits to the planned gas power plants in the West so that no stricter requirements can be imposed than those currently common in our European neighbouring countries. The majority believe that such transformations can take place within the framework of the current pollution law. The government believes there is doubt that this is possible. In order to avoid an unnecessary debate as to whether or not the emission permits can be modified within the current legislation, the majority have therefore said that if the Government considers that there is a need for legislative change in order to follow the will of the majority of the population, the Government must promote the necessary proposals for adjustments to the pollution law. Such proposals, if any, will, in the view of the Workers' Party, contribute to strengthening the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument. To the extent that today's pollution law means that we can freely and without any restrictions import strong polluting power from our neighbouring countries, but do not open up to using gas with the most environmentally friendly technology available today, to produce power ourselves – yes, there is a weakness in today's pollution law, with which we should do something. Our point is not to weaken the pollution law; our point is in the case of strengthening the law as an environmental policy instrument. Our starting point is that it is still possible to make changes to the emissions permits within the current pollution law. However, if there is still a need to amend the law, it would mean strengthening the pollution law, not a weakening – because it may not be right that it should be fully possible to import coal power from Poland, but not possible to use the most advanced technology to produce significantly cleaner gas power in Norway. The majority believe that building gas power plants and reducing Norway’s import of highly polluting power strengthens Norwegian environmental policy. Any changes to the legislation that may be necessary to achieve this will therefore strengthen the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument. The Labour Party therefore considers that the proposal by the representative Steensnæs promoted on behalf of the centre parties earlier today is superfluous. In addition, it may contribute to a new ambiguity in the interpretation of what is really meant by the proposal, which is a little bit like being a resolution, because it is unclear to whom it is actually addressed. The Labour Party believes that the proposal of the majority in place, which has already been promoted, better ensures that the pollution law is not weakened as an environmental policy instrument and will therefore be in line with the proposals of the Centre Parties. Law and law are important, and we must always stay within the law and never do things that are contrary to the law. But law and law are not an end in itself; the law is an instrument for the political majority, for the democratic bodies, to achieve political objectives. And so it's that a majority of this population thinks it's more environmentally friendly to use gas for power generation than not. It's an honest thing to disagree with that, but then that's what we should discuss, what the disagreement is about, and then we have to try to avoid the debate being about the means to achieve the goals we can politically disagree with. We believe that there are many ways of converting emissions permits, there are several ways in today's pollution law, different ways of dealing with them, in consultation rounds, and it is, of course, also possible to do so through adjustments to today's pollution law. What the Government believes is the best and the right way to change emissions permits, is in and of itself subordinate to the bulk of the population, it is essential that emission permits are modified so that we can put gas into use for power generation, because it is more environmentally friendly and better energy policy than relying on imports, which is the Government's option.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1238	In the debate on gas power, the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party has referred to several national meetings which have established that the party has been involved in the development of gas power plants in Norway. However, it is an undeniable fact that it is the Workers' Party's action paralysis over several years that is the direct reason why we have not got this in place long ago. As the representative of Stoltenberg might remember, I took this up with him in the final debate on the throne and asked him if it was not soon time to throw off this act. I did not receive any specific response at that time, but I am pleased to note that this has finally happened. The progressing party has always believed that CO2 emissions have nothing to do with the pollution law. I note that in the joint proposal from the Workers' Party and the Right, these batches are now opening up to amendments to the pollution law ‘if necessary’. My question to the representative Stoltenberg is therefore: Does this not mean that the Workers' Party is now also in agreement with the Progress Party in the CO2 issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1245	The position we are discussing today shows that there is a fundamental disagreement between the Progress Party and the Labour Party on all essential issues relating to Norwegian climate policy. In fact, the Progress Party does not really fully take on board the fact that greenhouse gas emissions can lead to an environmental problem and they argue against it being considered a pollution problem at all. There we fundamentally disagree. We are committed to implementing the Kyoto Agreement. We have been a driver of that agency for many years, and of course we will help to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions through the mechanisms contained in the Kyoto agreement. And that's where I see that the Progress Party stands for a completely different policy. Then it is true that the Workers' Party has a national meeting decision in which we are in favour of the construction of gas power plants. It's also true that it's taken time to realize it. It's because of a lot of relationships. This is due, first, to the fact that, unlike in 1997, it occurred when, for example: The methanol factory, which also emits significant amounts of CO2, was a proper legal application to subject gas power plants to treatment under the pollution law. The law was not amended, but a new application of the law was chosen, and it is an application of the law that the Workers' Party, of course, supported and stood for in 1997. This has meant that we have had to go rounds of emission permits – which we think are quite fine. But we are opposed to exempting CO2 from treatment under the pollution law. This is because, although we believe that the emission requirements currently laid down should be relaxed, we believe it is important to have the means to set emission requirements in the future. There may be new projects where it may be appropriate to set emission requirements that are different from those we propose today. We believe it is important to have the pollution law to set emission requirements in relation to an allowance system and say that when an allowance system comes, they should be required to buy allowances. So taking CO2 out of the pollution law in relation to gas power plants is not relevant for the Workers' Party. What is relevant is to make any adjustments to enable us to build gas power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1254	Now we need to clarify what has happened in the Workers' Party in terms of the prerequisite for building gas power plants. The Pollution Act has been an important prerequisite for environmental policy, which has had a great deal of upsurge in the Stortinget thanks to the fact that the Workers' Party has cooperated with the centre parties in this vision. And in a few afternoon hours yesterday, the Workers' Party turns around and manages to do a political saltomor speech that is suitable for both amazement and disappointment. Now it says that the pollution law should be amended if necessary, and they say that in order to travel a gas power plant, there is a possible way out. Last time the Workers' Group discussed this matter on 19 January, it said: ‘In the opinion of the Working Party, it is neither necessary nor appropriate to amend the pollution law until an allowance system is established.’ And Jagland says the same thing in his letter of 25 January, which also the representative Kvassheim was in – that it was unnecessary for the Workers' Party to change the pollution law, the Workers' Party is in the same view. The setting - and this has gone fast for the Workers' Party - states that ‘any emission requests for new gas plants are assumed to occur within the framework of the Pollution Act’, whereas the new proposal states that this law can be amended. I now think the representative Stoltenberg needs to clarify what has happened. Has the Workers' Group taken a new decision? When did Stoltenberg come up with the idea that, by amending the pollution law, one would strengthen the environment, when he and Jagland and the Workers' Party group thought it was the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1269	The Pollution Act is a very important instrument in environmental policy. It should remain so, and it should at least contribute to it. But the law is not an end in itself. The objective is to have a law that is so well designed that it is the best possible medium for environmental policy, and therefore the law has been adjusted/modified several times to become an even better instrument, and among others. take into account that the reality in which the law is to operate is changing. So then our starting point – which we also believe is a reasonable interpretation of the notion that comes from the law department – is that it is fully possible to change the emission permits within the current law. So the government doesn't say it's wrong, but they say at least that it can raise doubts about it and open up a discussion about it. And then we say, precisely because a law is not in itself an objective, but an instrument for achieving political goals, that we give the Government the freedom of choice to choose the procedure it thinks is the best. There are different variants within today's legislation, and it is of course possible to modify/adjust one or two paragraphs of the pollution law so that you can be sure that you can grant emission permits to gas power plants, which we believe lead to a significantly better environment than the alternative. What must always be the starting point is that we must reach a goal that we believe is more environmentally friendly than what the Government stands for, and how to achieve that goal is not the crucial thing, the crucial thing is that we achieve the environmental goals we have set ourselves. If that is the case – and I stress if – today's pollution law allows us to import power freely from Poland, but cannot use gas in Norway, then there is an environmental weakness in the pollution law that needs to be amended, because it has not taken on board the fact that we are not facing a national environmental problem but an international and global environmental problem, and in that case the law has to be adapted so that climate problems have to be seen in an international framework, not in a national framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1278	Now I think Jens Stoltenberg is trying to misunderstand the Workers' Party's relationship to the pollution law, because the proposal submitted yesterday cannot be interpreted in any other way than that if no conventional and polluting gas power can be realised within the framework of today's law, yes, the law must be amended – if necessary. It is the basic position of the Workers' Party in this matter. Gaseous pollutants shall be pushed forward – if necessary by amending the law. There can be no other interpretation of the Workers' Party and the Right's proposal from yesterday and what has been said today. Now the Workers' Party has said in many ways that one does not want to change the law, and then the question is: What does Stoltenberg mean, what does the Workers' Party mean? And when the Workers' Party and the Right jointly say that if necessary, one must change the pollution law, one must assume that in this context it must mean a weakening of the law – i.e. a weakening of the law that Stoltenberg has now said that one does not want, he wants to cross-strengthen the law. This is becoming more and more real. Jens Stoltenberg has now announced in his contribution that at the end of the meeting tonight, the Workers' Party will vote against a proposal that he has said from Stortingen's pulpit that he really agrees, yes, he even wants to strengthen the law. And then this becomes more and more revealing. There can no longer be any doubt as to what is the motives of the Workers' Party in this matter. Finally, I would like to ask: if the Labour Party is voting against proposal No. 17 this evening, can it be interpreted in any other way than that the Workers' Party is prepared, if necessary, to weaken the pollution law in order to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1289	The answer to the last question is a clear and unambiguous no. We do not intend to weaken the pollution law, nor do we actually undertake to change it at all. We believe that the proposals we have made can be implemented within the current law. But if that's how the government thinks it's best and necessary to change the law in order to give these emission permits, then we give the government full freedom to do so, and ask it to come back to Stortinget with proposals. In this case, we would consider such proposals to be a strengthening of the pollution law. Because what I've been trying to say through a couple of posts now is that if – as we don't think it is – the pollution law allows us to import coal power from our neighbouring countries without any limitation, but cannot use gas in the most environmentally friendly way currently available in Norway, there is an environmental weakness in the pollution law, and then it is necessary to strengthen the pollution law, as we have done in many other treatments in this room in the case of small and large changes to that law. So the Workers' Party is to the extent that it's about changing the pollution law, to strengthen it, not weaken it. I have said that on a few occasions, and I hope it has now become clear. Then the representative asked what the Workers' Party meant. I can repeat that, too, I: we believe that gas power should be built in Norway because it is more environmentally friendly than what is the Government's alternative, because the government's alternative is imports. And then we all want to get even better technology one day, but we think we're faster at the goal of using the best technology we have today. So one more thing about the pollution law: it's not that the pollution law prohibits the granting of emission permits without imposing requirements on the clean-up of CO2. It is therefore a very short time since the State's pollution control authority granted a comprehensive emission permit to completely new gas treatment plants at Kårstø – 350 000 tonnes of CO2 out, with permission from SFT!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1298	Now I think the Labour Party parliamentary leader is soon in the process of easing enthusiasm for gas power plants. And on the SV side, we are not amazed at the Workers' Party's position on gas power plants – we follow what the Workers' Party decides at its national meetings. What surprises us today, and which amazed us yesterday and earlier, is what the raw drive of the working party adds up to in the gas power case together with the Right. For now, during the reign of Jagland and during the reign of Bondevik, Norwegian policy has worn away with what Bondevik believes to be a virtue, namely that one day and the other since the next, from the Right and the Advance Party on one day, and from the Workers' Party on the next day. That's what makes it very unclear to the voters who is responsible for how things really are going in this country, and that's what keeps you in this government going away in defeat. If we could today invite Stoltenberg to look forward to tomorrow – let's say there will be a government crisis in this matter: then the Workers' Party has run the gas power case with the Right in such a way that Jens Stoltenberg tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and until the elections in 2001 will be in exactly the same situation that Jagland was in before the elections in 1997, and that Bondevik and the central government have been in, that is to say, that it is a virtue to seek a majority in varied matters with an alternating majority in the UK. In this way, the gas power issue impedes a possible and absolutely necessary majority structure in the Storting, which could have been planned for several days and months and years to come, which could have allowed a majority in the Storing to set some political objectives. And the key point of preventing sensible political cooperation between the centre parties, SV and the Workers' Party is environmental policy. Why in the world is the Workers' Party driving in the gas power case so as to prevent a sensible majority formation in Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1307	Of course, I disagree with the representative Halvorsen that the Workers' Party is doing something rough in the gas power case. What the Labour Party is doing is we're voting for what we're for, and especially it's nice to do that when we have a majority for what we're for. It would be nice if we voted against what we are for when we have a majority for it, and only for when we do not have a majority! So this isn't rough, it's democracy! I agree that this matter has become more difficult than it should have been, but I think it is related to the fact that the government has chosen a procedure that has created unnecessary problems. For a minority government, or in particular any government, to be sensitive to what the majority of the population think, and that is so that, especially when important administrative decisions are to be taken – as the appeals of the gas power plant were obvious, because it is about choices in environmental and energy policy – one should be more concerned with examining what the Storting really means. Last June, there were two issues of major importance for gas power plants for treatment in Stortinget, the Energy Communication and a separate Document No. Eight proposals. Despite the fact that these matters were being dealt with and that there were obviously many in Stortinget who wanted us to open up gas power plants, the government nevertheless chose to take an administrative decision without investigating what the Stortinget meant or awaited the treatment of the Stortinget. This is what has made us in a somewhat difficult situation where the government has to change its decision because it was not responsive enough to the Storting and chose to make a decision without waiting for the Storting's judgements and advice. So to the question of gas power makes it impossible to cooperate. Well, what's going on tomorrow and the day after tomorrow I'm not going to wonder at all now, but the Workers' Party has said many times that we want to contribute to the establishment of majority formations and cooperation with other parties. But that cooperation must be based on respect for the fact that we disagree with some individual issues. It's e.g. so that the Workers' Party believes that the cash support is a wrong way to support families with children. We have other and better suggestions. But it should not prevent us from cooperating with the centre parties, and therefore the gas power issue should not prevent us from cooperating with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1318	Of course, in a two-minute reply in a line change, it is not possible to answer all the questions at once, and Jens Stoltenberg left a good deal of the questions I asked him, and I therefore use the opportunity to try me again. It is obvious that the Workers' Party has almost acted in a panic to get this in place. And I pointed out that regardless of whether you agree with what's in the position and what's in the position and what's in the position or not, anyone who makes proposals is obliged to contribute to that being consistent and consistent. And I pointed out that in the proposal for Decision I, it reads as follows: ‘... any emission requests for new gas power plants are assumed to be made within the framework of the pollution law.’;» And the new proposal presented by the Labour Party with the Right states that if necessary it can be changed. I find no good connection and consistency in this, and will ask Jens Stoltenberg to clarify to Stortinget how these seemingly, for us the others at least, contradictions can be solved. I would also like to be allowed to ask if this is how to understand – as the proposal we have made to the Storting today seems unnecessary for the Workers' Party – that if the Government were to clarify a way of building gas power plants that would lead to such a change in the pollution law that it would lead to a deterioration, the Workers' Party would not be involved in such a solution. The Workers' Party will then recognise that it was not possible to lay down such a framework, such as those under the pollution law, with adaptations where appropriate, that this could coincide with important environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1332	I will answer the question, but first I have to be allowed to join Olav Akselsen's slightly stated remark here earlier that now for several weeks we have tried to discuss gas power with the centre parties, but they hardly ever present in the debate on advantages and disadvantages by processing Norwegian gas in Norway. The centre parties are constantly trying to make this a debate on other issues. It started with the fact that the gas power plant was something the Workers' Party invented in January for internal personnel issues in the Workers' Party! Then there was a question of government power, and now it's just a question of law. Can they not at some point accept that the Workers' Party is for gas power plants because we are for gas power – simply? There are no other reasons. All right, let's go to the jukebox. Well, we still believe that it is possible to implement the changes we have proposed in the emissions permits within today's legislation. Then the government – after the setting was submitted – has put forward a consideration that the government does not think says the opposite, but at least raises doubts. And since it is the policy objectives that are most important, we say that if it is necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the proposal, but not least in the comments, then we will open up an amendment to the law. And then we say that it gets the government to evaluate. I feel that is a rather clear approach to this issue. So we are giving an freedom of choice in terms of instruments, but no freedom of choice in terms of where we are going to end: emissions permits that allow the use of gas in Norway. Then again to the question of weakening or strengthening the pollution law. It depends on – and that is the problem with the proposal – what is meant by weakening and strengthening. We believe that opening up gas power plants strengthens Norwegian environmental policy. And so to the extent that it is necessary to amend the pollution law, we believe that it will strengthen the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument, while I believe that the centre parties will believe that it weakens the pollution law as an environmental policy instrument, because they believe that gas power plants are an environmental policy evil. We mean the opposite, and it's a real political disagreement. Let's stick to that, instead of all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1341	President! There was an obvious misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1348	The President assumes that there will be ample opportunity to clarify obvious misunderstandings later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1351	Then I would like to draw the President's attention to the fact that there was a real misunderstanding on the part of the representative of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1358	With a suspicion that the opposite may be the case – Mr. Steensnæs gets the floor! The number is limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1364	I think it is necessary now to state that the centre parties are not against gas power plants, as the representative Stoltenberg now said. We are to build gas power plants, but not with today's technology, which provide these highly polluting gas power stations that we don't want, but with the modern technology that enables us to also hold international climate agreements, as Norway is committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1369	This was no obvious misunderstanding, it was a political disagreement. So we have a political disagreement on the issue of gas power stations, and it is confirmed again. So-called CO2-free gas power technology has been right around the corner for ten years. When I was State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment, Thorbjørn Berntsen and I met companies and technology environments who said it was right around the corner. They got a few million -- we believed it. Now it's been ten years, and being right around the corner for ten years is a long corner. [[Laughter]] I don't know when we round the corner, but what I know, is that for every day and every year we wait, imports are increasing by strong polluting force. In addition, I know that almost all other technology developments happen by using the most advanced technology we have, and then we go from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1376	The President suggests that we are now at least rounding the minute. The president had advertised Steinar Bastesen as the next speaker, but observed that Mr. The baste isn't there. The President assumes that Mr. The bastese then sought refuge in sparse waters. [[Great cheer in the hall]] Øyvind Korsberg is then the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1383	The debate so far has focused a great deal on CO2 and measures to reduce emissions of this so-called greenhouse gas, either here to countries or in other countries, through the construction of gas power stations in Norway, thereby reducing imports of Danish coal power. Some representatives blamed CO2 emissions on hurricanes and other natural disasters. Climate variations, hurricanes and natural disasters are unfortunately natural and completely independent of political decisions in this room. After many years of intensive research, no evidence has yet been found that human emissions of CO2 affect the climate. The observed increase in temperature occurred essentially before 1940, i.e. before the great growth in CO2 emissions from humans. In addition, the increase in temperature has been relatively small in relation to the growth of the atmospheric content of CO2. This suggests that the causal relationship between CO2 emissions and the globe’s temperature is at best complicated and that other factors may also be significant. Here, theories stand against each other, and new research results are constantly coming into the debate. The objections to a simple correlation between CO2 emissions and an increase in the globe’s temperature are based, inter alia, on: lack of insight into the interaction between the atmosphere and the sea, not least the ability of the sea to absorb CO2 plus many, many other conditions. Today, many researchers note estimates of global warming due to CO2 emissions. Although there is some consensus that there may be some climate change that may be enhanced by anthropogenic emissions of CO2, there is also a trend towards a growing understanding that a moderate increase in the temperature of 0.5 to 2 °C will not lead to a global environmental disaster. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that human activity only accounts for approx. 3 pst. of the total global CO2 emissions. The Progress Party is therefore very much in doubt about the need to reduce man-made CO2 emissions, and in particular about the follow-up to the Kyoto Agreement with significant economic costs and reduced living standards for millions of people. It is fully possible that adapting the world to changing climate conditions is both better and more economically sound than trying to limit emissions, with the economic consequences. Recent arguments have been made that the planned gas power plants in the West cannot be built as they will lead to large emissions of CO2 and that this will lead to pollution that will harm the global environment. The question of whether CO2 should also be covered by the concept of gas in the pollution law was, in effect, established by the government of Jagland, which also referred emissions requests to CO2 for treatment in the State pollution control under pollution legislation. This was done despite the fact that CO2 emissions are neither harmful to humans, animals, plants nor any other way of life. This Decision implies that sensible industrial projects such as the construction of gas power plants cannot be carried out. For the purpose of building gas power plants in Norway, natural power or another builder is entirely dependent on having the same framework conditions as competitors in the Nordic and European electricity markets. As you know, natural power has been required to reduce CO2 emissions by 90 pst. until a allowance trading system is in place. To the best of your knowledge, you do not have the same treatment requirements in other countries. This requirement implies that, in the case of construction of such a plant, natural force is subject to so high ad hoc costs that the project cannot be realised in an economically sound manner. Harmonised use of instruments is a prerequisite for achieving profitability in projects, whether at Nordic or European level. It is therefore a reasonable solution to the problems of using Norwegian gas for power generation in Norway to remove CO2 emissions from the pollution law. So the most sensible thing to do now to get ahead of the matter is to change the pollution law. We are of the opinion that emissions of CO2 are not part of the pollution problem and refer to the legislative proposal that the Progress Party has promoted to change the pollution law. The biggest CO2 problem you have today is what the majority of politicians in this house have created.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1411	Let me start by saying something about the whole of the matter that Stortinget is dealing with today, namely the energy message. I am pleased that the long-term conversion of energy production and energy use to which the Government invites in the Energy Communication gets a majority here today. The conversion proposed by the Government is, as the majority of its comments say, ambitious, but it is necessary. It shall include, inter alia: a comprehensive development programme – DKK 5 billion over 10 years – to focus on the new renewable energy sources, which are future energy sources. The government's aim is to contribute to a more environmentally friendly and more versatile energy supply. After the Great Hydropower Age is over, we need more legs in energy policy. We put forward a policy that strongly focuses on energy sources such as wind power, bioenergy, heat pumps and district heating. A very important part of this work must be to cover more of our heat demand, which today includes around 30 TWh, in ways other than through electricity. The government's energy policy strategy is justified by the environmental requirements for a forward-looking energy policy. This is the first time that a globalization message in this way is taking the environment seriously in energy policy, and it is also the first time that such a long-term perspective is being taken into account for the changes to be made. The support given to the Government to change energy production and use provides us with a good basis. The next step by the Government will be to facilitate more restraint in the consumption of energy. It's hard to get away from the fact that there has to be a cornerstone of our future energy policy. One can say, as some have done here today, that energy consumption in Norway is not significantly higher than in other countries. But our power consumption is high above other countries, and that is precisely the power consumption and the electricity we are discussing here first and foremost today in the gas power debate. The government is now working to set concrete targets for how to reduce the growth of power consumption, while reorganising the whole energy saving process. We believe it is necessary to reform an increase in work, and we will then set up a government agency that will be directly subject to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In its Energy Communication, the Government has taken the consequence that the international dimension has become more important in energy policy, both through the international climate agreement and also through the energy sector operating in an international market. Both of these conditions imply active work by political authorities to reflect the environmental costs of the various energy carriers, which will strengthen the competitiveness of the new renewable energy sources in the future. I noticed that Jens Stoltenberg said in his post that he wanted a real debate about gas power. Then he also has to recognize where the different parties actually stand. What we are in the middle of today's debate on gas power is not, as he said, a debate on whether we should use natural gas domestically in Norway. We agree on that. Today's debate on gas power is about the environmental requirements that need to be set aside for an activity that results in as much CO2 emissions as gas power does. I have noticed that both the Labour Party and the Right say that they have an absolute demand for the use of natural gas in Norway to be aligned with our international climate obligations. Let me say it another way, as the Energy Communication says: in the future, the environmental objectives will determine the production potential. The government wants to be prepared for this future through a conversion of energy use and energy production, and that conversion must start now. At the same time, we must be aware that there are long-term choices we are making for our energy policy both here today and in the future. The environmental objectives and long-term requirements cannot only relate to renewable energy sources; they cannot only relate to energy consumption; they must also relate to the introduction of gas power as an energy source in our energy supply. And when we discuss this problem, we should remember that this is no longer about the two gas power plants in the West. It is now five planned gas power stations of a total of more than 20 TWh, which will emit more than 7 million tonnes of CO2. This means an increase in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions of more than 15 pst. When we discuss gas power generation on that scale, it is obvious that at the same time we need to discuss the environmental conditions that need to be set in relation to that production. We all agree that in a long-term perspective, gas power will pay a price for its emissions through an international greenhouse gas emission allowance system. It is climate agreements that will determine how much total emissions can be in each country and, in part, also how much CO2 reductions are in each country. Such agreements are absolutely necessary, because too many can be tempted to do what the majority do in this Chamber today, namely to come into a situation where each country justifies an increase in pollution within its borders by the fact that, overall, it will reduce pollution internationally. That is precisely why we have an agreement on climate change, so that we avoid each country doing it that way. With the elements of national implementation of the Kyoto Agreement, Norway will also have to respond to emissions within its borders. This will not only help with hopeful considerations about cross-border savings. I think we are wise to assume that the patience of other countries will be limited if we choose to adopt such an attitude, in particular because the majority of the population of Kyoto just committed to taking a good part of the reductions at home. Denmark will probably ask where our commitment has been in this way, when they are now aiming at implementing a Kyoto follow-up where the majority of reductions are to be taken domestically. It is not certain that it will be seen as loyal to the Kyoto agreement that Norway, while waiting for an international quota system, is using the possibility of increasing our emissions by many million tonnes of CO2. We are also wise to consider what increased CO2 emissions over 15 pst. will mean for other sectors of the Norwegian community. How much more are the drivers and the industry going to pay for the gas power plants that are now going to enter without paying for them? With its yes to gaseous pollutants without any environmental requirements, the majority of Stortinget today establishes a practice for a few selected persons to be free passengers in the system until an international quota system is in place. Over 60 pst. of all activities in Norway today are subject to the CO2 regulation. On the base, the oil business must pay NOK 300 per person. tonnes of CO2 and the drivers must pay 94 øre per. litres of petrol in the CO2 charge. But gas power plants will release free of charge for eight years to come! Then the Workers' Party can say that there has been a political majority since 1996 to build gas power plants. The answer to that is yes, but not without environmental requirements. In fact, it was in 1997 that the government of Jagland assumed that the pollution law would also apply to CO2 emissions. He didn't mean anything about that? Was it just an attempt to hang skeptical voters in front of the election? So late as in its background note on gas power now in ours, the central government of the Workers' Party says that it will not be right to change the pollution law until an allowance system is in place. The situation today is that during a few hours yesterday, the Workers' Party turned the trill around in this matter. From being with us in the view that the pollution law must cover such emissions, they are now, if necessary, willing to amend the law and therefore also weaken the instruments of climate policy that they themselves have established. It's not like we're from the Government's side that here make politics a thing of the past. After all, it was the Workers' Party that made politics jus in 1997, when they chose to change the pollution law. We have to be serious about that, seasily, when the law is now designed as it is. The government does not refuse to use domestic natural gas. But we say that there has to be an environmental framework around it. In addition, we say that one should now use the situation within, to develop CO2-free gas power plants. It can provide Norway with an important advantage and great opportunities for development, both industrially and environmentally. Through the development of today's technology, which Norway should have very good conditions for using, we can combine good industrial policies with good environmental policies in an excellent way. But then we have to do it now. We cannot wait and hope that a new technology can be developed through polluting gas power plants. Firstly, waiting in itself will increase the cost of retrofitting new technologies. And secondly, it's SFT's opinion that there's only one technology that can be retrofitted in traditional gas power plants. The other two will have a serious competitive handicap. Overall, the message we are discussing today represents a new energy policy, where environmental concerns are taken seriously for the first time and where the basis for a broad and long-term commitment to future energy providers is also laid. It would be a pity if a majority in this room undermined such a new forward-looking effort by insisting on using the technology of the past to build highly polluting gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1452	First of all, I don't know anyone who wants to use the technology of the past to build gas power plants in Norway, where one wants to use the best available. But first of all, I would like to say that the Labour Party and the Centre can find together, as we have done in the configuration, both when it comes to the issue of an increase and to the question of stimulating new renewable energy sources. As far as I can understand, we are also some of the consumers; we are also some that we already have a deficit and that this deficit will increase. The debate and thus the unsemja is about how we should cover this deficit. The working party has tried to argue for our way of covering it up, by building gas power plants in Norway. As far as I understand, the opponents wanted to increase the import, and then I thought one should have been so honest that one said it open. I think one would have stood by admitting that the option of gas power is an ever-increasing import. Since so many people are in favour of it, I think they have good arguments for such a policy, and it might be very nice for us to hear these arguments. In this debate, a few impressions may be that only Norway has plans to build gas power plants. It's by no means the case. From January 1998 to June 1999, 289 gas turbines were sold to Europe, and 13 entirely specific gas power stations are planned around Europe, including: with Norwegian companies as investors. You get the impression that if you're going to build these gas plants in Norway, it's a breach of the Kyoto agreement. My question to the Minister is therefore: is it so that all of these others, England, Ireland, the Netherlands, etc., who are planning to deploy gas power plants, also break the Kyoto agreement's intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1461	My position is that each country, whether Norway, the Netherlands, England or some of the others, must make long-term energy policy choices that are environmentally sustainable. We cannot say that it is for all other countries to do so, while in Norway we should say: no emission requirements for CO2 from gas power plants until we have an international allowance agreement – that is, eight years of free passage. The answer to Akselsen's question is that all countries have to make long-term energy policy choices. They have to do that that imports gas from us, and we have to do that whether we choose to use the gas power or not. Every country has a responsibility for it. That means we have a responsibility. I believe that if Denmark now chooses to reduce its coal power generation, it will not be because we build gas power plants in Norway, but it will be because Denmark introduces a quota system or a CO2 tax that actually reduces coal power production in Denmark. I have noticed that a lot of people here said during the day that we are importing large amounts of polluting coal power. Let me just mention that they only tell half the truth. They use temperature-corrected numbers. It's good enough to use it as a factor and as a trend. But they also have to include the other half of the visa, and that is that we did not import one kilowatt of polluting coal power from Denmark in 1999. We exported on the contrary 2 TWh – that's the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1468	As I said in my post earlier today, the Government's energy report does not take into account the increased demand for power in Norway, and the result is that we know: we need to increase the imports of coal power. In addition, the government of good old-fashioned centre party style is to subsidize energy production in the energy storm power of Norway, which is almost overflowing with energy. Now it seems almost as if the Council of State itself has begun to doubt its own policy. Last week there was a show of increased electricity prices for cabin owners, based on good, old-fashioned envy policy and jante law. Today we are told that the Council of State has a secret selection to force the Norwegian people to save electricity. My question to the Council of State will therefore be: Is this really a future-oriented energy policy worthy of the energy storm power of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1475	I must first be allowed to say that, unlike the representative, Mr Vaksdal, I think that the question of consumption will be important for years to come. I think it must be a cornerstone of future energy policy how we can manage to reduce power consumption. It's sky high above any other country, and we use 30 TWh for heating in Norway today. Almost everything is based on electricity. Obviously, we can do something about it. Without bothering people, we can do something about it by adding up to a conscious strategy related to heat-borne warming. It is not that, as Minister of Energy, I have thought that small cabin owners should be charged more expensive electricity. But we see a development with, first of all, larger and larger cabin areas, and in such a context, I believe that through local energy planning, we should actually facilitate that one does not use as much electricity as some of them would otherwise have done. Among other things, we can do that. do so by meeting the heat demand through waterborne heating. Municipalities have a great deal of responsibility for it. And then I have to say, when a single cabin uses 170,000 kW in a year, it's ten times what we normally use. It must be allowed to put your finger on. So on the issue of energy balance, or power balance, and the sample we've reduced: we've reduced a sample to look at something we call the power balance. It may be that in a few cold days during a winter there is a basis for looking at how to secure the energy supply. There is no unknown problem in a free power market. That's how it'll be in a power market that's quite free, and where the power flows into the different parts. We believe that we have received a good deal of thanks to the issue of the power situation, not least because Statnett and Hydro have concluded a very constructive agreement. That kind of question might sound detailed, it might not sound as important as the gas power issue we are discussing today. But it's a very important part of energy policy, as the Government is concerned about every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1487	I just want to say that the Council of State and I probably have a little bit of different definitions of "housing." The smoking standard mentioned here, I would refer to as ‘a major place of accommodation’. So until what we may not agree on – although I have to distance myself from Mr. Mr Vaksdal's remark that good, old-fashioned central party policy was a lot of subsidies. No, it was very good in the Center Party in the old days. I myself was in the Energy and Industry Committee in the 1980s, led by Reidar Due, a state colleague of the Council of State. There were many good and unanimous settings, including: the following: ‘When gas enters as a new resource, it must be used as a hydropower for industrial development’.» I would like to underline the word 'now'. It was in 1988. And then there are people who still ask why it's urgent like that. I have stopped believing in the Center Party in terms of time forecasts. And why should we believe in them now? Because now they're saying it's right around the corner, the new technology -- right around the corner. And then those who have tried this say, among other things. Hydro: No, there is no such commercial, exploitable technology available before 10 years, and they provide the following additional advice: Start developing on the best technological basis now, because technology is never a status phenomenon. There will be better technology at any time – at any time. Sometimes it takes a little longer, sometimes it goes faster. Some people believe in quantum leaps – I just happened to see Opseth, but it was random! I do remember, Mr President. Olsen! But enough about it. My question to the Council of State is: why does she contest Norsk Hydro's experience in developing new technology? And why does she contest their time estimates of the new technology, if she means a commercial, available technology with new technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1505	I do not dispute that there are divided opinions about when one can realize a new technology. I have noticed that Statoil believes that it will take a very long time. Now you might have Statoil suspect that in this context they also have certain other interests in relation to conventional gas power. But I have also noticed that others say that it will take a considerably shorter time. So I think the debate is probably worth saying here that there are different opinions about it. Nor do I disagree that we should use the possibilities that gas gives us for industrial development. However, there must be an industrial development within a reasonable environmental framework. That is where I believe that each country, no matter what its name is, has a responsibility to make some long-term choices that are energy policy-relevant, which can be industrially developing, but which are also environmentally sustainable. I believe that we should have used the cancers today to see the environmentally friendly opportunities. In my opinion, they are developing gas power plants that provide minimal pollution. It's not right that one can easily retrofit new technology. Statoil can, but for Aker, who is currently out in the VG, it will be a serious competitive handicap if traditional gas power plants are now built because they cannot retrofit their technology. It must be put into service from the start. In addition, with a lifetime of a 30-year gas power plant, introducing new technologies after 10 years will significantly increase the additional cost. It's also something, I think, that we'll hear in ten years' time, if they're going to apply new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1514	Let me start a little bit unusual. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on a very good report. At my discretion, there was some of the wisest thing that has been said here in the hall so far. I think it's nice to see that we have an energy minister who also has the ability to take the environmental perspective into account in energy policy. Some of the things that have been missing in all energy policy discussions in this house for many, many years are just the perspective that goes on in the environment, and that also makes it a big deal in the hall today related to gas power plants. So I think it's very positive, and I think that the perspective that energy and the environment cannot be seen separately, but must be seen together, is the most important perspective you have to have on Norwegian energy policy in the years to come. I am also pleased that it is so strongly emphasised that we have a national responsibility to reach the international agreements contained in the Kyoto mechanism. And the Kyoto mechanism is, hopefully, just the first step in taking the international responsibility of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But that means that it is a very special responsibility, as a significant energy nation, to meet the national obligations that lie with us. So that means that it's not possible for us over time to try to buy out of what are the exception rules of the Kyoto mechanism, namely quota exchange and what else might be of exception. The main objective must be that we have to meet the obligations nationally, and that will include, among other things. the construction of the type of gas power plant that the majority now want, i.e. a step in the wrong direction. However, let me challenge the Council of State at a point that I experience as a significant problem. One of those who has been among the strongest propellants to produce this gas power debate has been a company with the very misleading name Natural Force, which at the top of everything is owned by three state-owned companies. Two of these companies are even the Minister of Energy for the General Assembly, and the third belongs to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Sponheim. How does it feel, from a ministerial point of view, to have a company for which you are a general meeting, which is continually sabotaging what is the government's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1523	Let me first tell the representative, Djupedal, that it is nice to have some positive feedback on the Government's energy message. I think we agree that there must be an environmental framework here – not in ten years or eight years, but from today on we must be concerned with the environmental requirements to be set for our energy production. And I'm simply responding to the fact that today you're willing to open up an introduction of gas power plants, which are no longer just about two gas power plants in the West, but are about five gas power plants, where you're going to dump over 7 million tonnes of CO2 into the Norwegian system before we start distributing quotas. You have to set up free passengers. And then I have to ask myself, when we come to the allocation of allowances, who is going to pay for these free passengers? I have a clue who it might be. I don't think it's unproblematic, the way this has been a communication between the Natural Force and the Workers' Party and the Right. The government has no basis for the owner to go in and have bona fide opinions about what the companies are going to do. But it's clear that it's kind of confusing when you've experienced what you've experienced in the debate lately. What I think is particularly confusing, is enough that in the debate here I experience that the Axis among other things. says that different lawyers have said so and so, and the law department has said so and so. The problem with the government is that we have difficulty assessing what other lawyers have said. We don't get access to those papers, because they're classified. They are only available for the Working Party and the Right. And that's a problem for an open and public debate, and also for the reality debate Jens Stoltenberg said he wanted. That secret cremation seems to me to be difficult to tolerate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1535	We're talking about the energy and power balance by 2020, and then the situation is that we have a power deficit. And as the representative of Olav Akselsen pointed out earlier, we have been exporting force for nine out of ten years, now we are importing for two out of three years. So that's where I don't think there's any inconvenience between us and the council. But the point is that we – at least not in the West – can expect it to rain so much in the years that come, that we will include it in the force balance. So, as the Council says, we're listening to something about temperature and normal year correction. So in the long, long term, we're going to have to import because we have a deficit. Then the answer to the Government is more imports from highly impurising coal power plants, whether it comes through Sweden from Poland, or from Denmark. From the Workers' Party's side, we say that we are now using gas and building gas power plants with the best available technology. So we and Right think that it's the way one should have the same framework conditions in Norway to apply the technology that the other countries have. We haven't said that we should have a different framework than the other country has, but one can therefore meet the power demand with gas, which is better environmental. But the answer to the government is no, we don't, because we want to import more coal power from Denmark or Poland. And I just want to be confirmed by the Council of State that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1542	Let me first say that I have nothing against the majority using the temperature-corrected numbers. I have sent them to Stortinget myself, so it is clear that they would like to use them. But that's only half the story. And when the majority stands up here today and gives the impression that we are now pouring coal power into Norway, I have to say that we have not imported 1 kW of coal power from Denmark in 1999. It'll be some years we'll do it, and it'll be the second years we don't. So I also agree that there is a basis for taking the temperature-regulated numbers seriously. Of course, I don't want to underestimate them in the way that I may feel that the majority is substantiating the actual numbers. Both are important. Now there are some reservations about the temperature-corrected figures, which I have also informed the Storting, but which the majority do not seem interested in. The logic of environmental requirements is the climate agreement. Each country will have to take responsibility for its CO2 emissions. Those who import gas from us on the continent will have to do it, and we'll have to do it. But what we're about to do in advance, obviously, is we're going to set up some free passengers who are going to sneak into the queue first on the day the allowances are to be distributed, and it's going to cost someone else, which today also has emissions. Then I must also say that I have noticed here today that some have tried to make gas exports a moral question. Then I have to ask myself, is it so that the Workers' Party believes that it is a problem that we export gas? We export 70 billion standard cubic meters of gas. Should we not have exported gas? It is clear that we must use natural gas domestically, but then there must be sound environmental requirements and environmental frameworks around it. That's our point here today. In the case of power markets and power cables, which are also mentioned, I cannot believe that the Workers' Party believes that we should go back to a self-sufficiency. They themselves established the Nordic power market in 1996.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1553	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1556	The main focus of this communication is gas and gas power plants, and the debate in the Chamber today is and will be mainly a gas power debate. This is important both for the environment and for the future. It is quite reassuring that we export gas to over 100 gas power stations on the continent. They produce electricity, and we import some of this stream back into Norway. Let's in the future produce this stream ourselves. Gases will also play a major role in industrial development in this country in the future. Therefore, it is incredibly important to get the infrastructure in place as quickly as possible. Of course, a Norwegian energy notification does not only contain opportunities within the gas business. In fact, sitting government has referred to natural gas energy with little enthusiasm in this message, naturally enough. The more the message contains future ideas about alternative renewable energy sources. If the targets are realistic, the future will show, but I agree with the Government in the value of investing in alternative energy sources and investing in an increase in measures, with some concerns about windmills. But what about the hydropower plants? Many love to say that the time of hydropower expansion is over. That's partly true, but we must not forget the great values we've created over 100 years of hydroelectric expansion. The power plants are located there and produce environmentally friendly energy, and it is of great importance that these works are given opportunities for renewal. Renewal and upgrading of old works can give us an increase in hydropower in the order of 5-10 TWh per year. I just want to refer to the decision in the revised 1999 national budget, where the majority of the Stortingen asked the Government to grant temporary exemptions from the investment tax for new hydropower plants for two years. The exemption was to be applied to projects notified in the second half of 1999, with legal implementation through the State budget for 2000. Unfortunately, the Government has not yet implemented Stortinget’s decision, and the pile of applications only grows with Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate. With the upgrading of the works, we could use unused hydropower resources while maintaining competence in this field both on the operational and maintenance side. There is currently a discussion in connection with the Norwegian electricity producers’ framework conditions in relation to non-resident power producers. In order to find answers to these discussions, it would be appropriate to identify the actual conditions of the different works’ framework conditions. This will also be correct in relation to the 154 power stations receiving concession power and concession fees from the power stations. If the framework conditions for the power producers change significantly, this will also have consequences for the power municipalities. The electrification of society is a story of wealth development and innovation. Norway can confirm this, especially through energy consumption in the last ten years, which has only gone a road, and it is upward. Instead of resigning from its previous environmental objectives to stabilise consumption and to be self-sufficient in renewable energy, an environmental government should have settled with the Norwegian electricity culture. Perhaps the message should have taken a proper settlement with the muddy use of both outdoor lights, hot water and panel furnaces. The government believes that an increase in the electricity charge is one of the means of reducing consumption. This is not the case with the Workers' Party, but when the national differences in the transmission tariffs range from 16.3 øre/kWh to 37.5 øre/kWh, there will be some heavy loads in electricity costs if the charges only increase. This affects the districts the most, and we need to get a flattening of the transmission tariffs on a national basis. I hope that the Government will go through different parts of the network business, as it is of great importance that users of the network have proper financial signals in terms of power turnover and power costs by using and being connected to the network. The requirements for transmission system companies must therefore be differentiated according to network level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1584	Recently, the news has been marked by constant disasters such as hurricanes and floods. The world’s leading climate scientists believe that man-made greenhouse gas emissions are a contributing cause. A few, including: represented by the Progress Party at home, believes that greenhouse gas emissions are not an environmental problem. They have also taken the consequences of proposing that greenhouse gas emissions should not be covered by the pollution law. Others take these hazard signals seriously and want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So far, I have assumed that this was the background for the workers' party government in the spring of 1997 to assess the need for gas power plants to have CO2 emission permits under the pollution law in addition to energy concessions under the Energy Act. Because we take the climate noise seriously, negotiated approx. 160 countries ahead of the Kyoto Protocol in December 1997. We know that the Kyoto Protocol will be followed up by stricter requirements after 2012. All countries, including Norway, face major challenges that will require new and more stringent instruments. More stringent requirements will require all sectors of society, coastal and road transport, households, service industries, industry and energy production. Norway will make use of the Kyoto mechanisms when they come into force, while at the same time we have to deal with the demand for them to be a complement to national measures. Conventional gas power plants will be among the largest individual sources of CO2 national emissions and of NOx. It is a great paradox that the opposition will in practice exempt gas power plants for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, while we, as individuals, have to pay for our emissions through, among other things, taxes. fuel and fuel oil. If we allow the planned gas power plants to significantly increase Norwegian CO2 emissions, we must be prepared for other sectors to take greater responsibility for reducing their emissions. The government shares the view of the majority of the population of gas power stations as an interesting industrial effort with a high environmental potential. But then technology needs to be further developed, so that emissions of CO2 and NOx are reduced to a minimum. It is this government party that will stimulate with the proposal in the committee position. Natural power itself has chosen to defer its investment decision, also for reasons other than emissions requirements. Let me also remind you that the pollution authorities are open to review the emission requirements if, in the light of technological developments, the SFT submits a reasoned request for a reassessment. The Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice has raised considerable doubts as to whether or not the majority’s proposals can be followed up under the pollution law. They refer, inter alia, to: that the law of any conversion requires that the benefits to the polluter or others resulting from the relaxation or repeal of the conditions are significantly greater than the damage and disadvantages it would cause to the environment. The opposition claims that the construction of gaseous power plants in Norway leads to a reduction in more polluting power generation, including: in other Nordic countries. No professional community in Norway, whether NVE, SFT or SINTEF, is in favour of such a reasoning, without clear assumptions that are currently not met. In the view of the Legal Department: ‘In this context, it will be important to have legal certainty — and on what basis — for the other emissions to be reduced. The less certain it is that such an emission reduction will actually take place, the more difficult it will be to consider the conditions in paragraph 1. 5 for compliance.’;» We don't have such legal certainty until an allowance system is in place. Some have produced it as if the Government were operating with legal chipspeckery. Now it seems that several have seen the need for such a legal review. All, both government and opposition, have obligations to deal seriously with Norwegian legislation. Environmental considerations are strongly reflected in Norwegian legislation, including: in the pollution law and the Constitution. The Norwegian pollution law was an important new crime at Gro Harlem Brundtland and has since inspired much better environmental legislation in several other countries. The Centre and the Workers' Party have so far agreed to defend and strengthen the law. By 1997 at the latest, the Labour Party Government assessed this in such a way that the law also covered greenhouse gas emissions. This has been loyally followed up by the Bondevik government. As late as a year ago, the Workers' Party would impose strict environmental requirements on gas power plants. A short time ago, the Workers' Party wanted the conversion of the emissions permit not only to change but in practice to eliminate the CO2 requirements, while at the same time avoiding the requirement of the best available technology. Now they are even willing to weaken the legislation itself in order to give green light to highly polluting gas power plants, in a situation where Kyoto obligations call for stronger instruments. It's alarming.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1619	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1622	The debate today should, of course, be about how we are going to solve the ever-increasing power deficit, which has already made us dependent on importing highly polluting coal power. I am quite sure that the government in its work on the energy message has turned every stone to search for the possibility of fulfilling what was previously the declared political objectives of the centre party, namely that the need should be met with renewable energy. The energy message presented shows that the government did not find a response to it. It was not possible to stack on the legs credible alternatives that would meet those objectives. So there's one answer from the government: that we have to solve this problem or meet our needs by continuing to import force. The response of the working party and the majority of the population is that Norwegian gas power will replace the imports we have today, and the imports we will rely on increasingly in the years to come. I disagree with the Minister for the Environment when she now claims that it is not the case that Norwegian trade unions have done well to ensure that this also brings environmental benefits. On the contrary, a number of specialist bodies have demonstrated that the construction of gas power plants will now reduce CO2 emissions in Europe. So no to gas power plants now means we're saying yes to larger emissions while we're waiting. So my question to the Minister for the Environment is: are the environmental challenges, as the Minister for the Environment sees it, primarily national? Can the Minister for the Environment be satisfied that emissions are being reduced in Norway, even if it is proven that our own energy policy would lead to increased emissions in Europe, if it were to go as the Government wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1634	Let me first be allowed to show that Minister of Oil and Energy Marit Arnstad was involved in a number of of these issues in his answer. But, of course, I have to supplement it. The government is convinced that it is possible to have several thoughts in your head at once. By doing so, we believe that there is not one answer to the challenge we are facing. The answer to the challenge we face in terms of power availability is that we have to do more things. We have to get better at using the energy that we have, efficiently. We need to get a real commitment to renewable energy. There is also a background for the Energy Communication Government to propose and endorse a historically high commitment to renewable energy. In addition, the government says that we want to use natural gas in Norway. What is the difference between our view and that of the majority is that we want to set a future-oriented, environmentally friendly framework for that use. As the Minister of Oil and Energy said, a gas power plant has a lifetime of up to 30 years. Few of the technologies currently being worked on can be retrofitted, at least not without significant costs. That is also why the SFT has said to the Committee that although we have to import coal power for up to 10 years, it will be better globally than if we are currently building highly polluting gas power plants that will continue to emit large amounts of CO2 for a long time in the future. It is also the case that these bodies being drawn up as evidence have made two assumptions for their conclusion. One is that this is not eaten up by increased consumption, and the other is that we have a guarantee that this comes instead of another type of force. We don't have that until an international allowance system is in place. And with respect to reporting, what you're presenting as evidence, doesn't hold at all. No one has yet presented guarantees that gas power in Norway will be replaced by coal power elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1645	The Council of State said in its statement that the party as a party was alone in its view of CO2 here to the country. And that's probably true. But we record that beyond the borders of the country there are many who share our views, and that is why the Kyoto agreement is not in force. The government is calling for a huge investment in wind power. The development of wind power will result in enormous natural interventions in the unspoiled nature. A wind farm requires several square kilometres and will also need line tracks that pass through untouched nature. In addition, a wind farm will necessarily be built high up in the terrain, and thus will be a visual sinking. I have registered that more and more nature protection organisations are protesting against these plans, as well as that nature constitutes the very bearer of the tourism industry, and especially in the districts. The left is a party that wants to profile itself as an environmental party, and then I'm surprised when you see how much untouched nature is going to be sacrificed to build wind power. The pre-war principle has been an indispensable requirement for the Council of State and the other political parties in the field of greenhouse gasses. How does the Council of State view this precautionary principle as being respected by the opposition? Does the Council not agree that the proposals presented by the opposition are a step in the right direction from the environmental point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1656	It is not so often that I congratulate the Progress Party on this platform, but when it comes to dealing with the issue here today, I would at least admit that the position of the Progress Party has a certain internal logic, in the sense that if you think that CO2 emissions are not an environmental problem, it should not be regulated by the Pollution Act either. However, I am a little more questioning that one believes that CO2 because it occurs naturally, cannot be an environmental problem. It's like saying that mercury, which also occurs naturally, is not an environmental problem either. And that's enough. Then to wind power. It is clear that the construction of many wind turbines may have an embedded conflict in them. This is also why the Government has proposed that the construction of wind turbines should be part of the regular planning process in the municipalities, so as to ensure a reasonable use of land and ensure that there is minimal interference in nature. When it comes to the concern that wind turbines in Norway should stop the tourist flow, I don't think there is a very high risk of that. At least I'm not familiar with a big problem in Denmark. With regard to whether or not the proposals from the opposition are moving in a more environmentally friendly direction, it should be relatively clear that the Council of State considers that these proposals do not move in a more environmentally friendly direction and do not take sufficient account of the precautionary principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1669	State Council The mountains have strong convictions in their resistance to gas power stations. It requires respect. I also see that the State Council does not reproach the Right because we stand firm at our position. In isolation, of course, the Council of State is right to increase national emissions if we build gas power plants in Norway. But if we see the Nordic region as a whole, we get lower emissions if we build gas power plants here than if we contribute to higher activity in the Danish coal power plants. We saw that in 1996, when Norwegian electricity consumption went up sharply. It did not turn out to be in the Norwegian CO2 account, but it turned out very strongly in the Danish CO2 account. Then the Danish CO2 emissions increased by 14 million. tonnes of CO2. Had we had gas power plants in Norway, the total emissions in the Nordic region would be lower than they were, because we contributed to higher activity in the Danish coal power plants. Does the Council of State consider this point irrelevant? I have a feeling that this debate is staring blindly at the national challenges and not looking at how greenhouse gas emissions will develop in a slightly larger context, in a Nordic or European context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1676	The representative is quite right that my amazement at a potential amendment to the pollution law is not directed to the Right. This is a vision The right has had all the time. It's a vision I deeply disagree with, but it's a neat sight. So over to what was probably the main question, and then probably my counter-question is what kind of guarantee we have that emissions go down elsewhere by building Norwegian gas power plants. Per. Unfortunately, we have no such guarantees today, and it is my opinion that we do not want that until an allowance system is in place. So whether or not the experience of 1996 is irrelevant. I'm sorry to have to say that, but I believe far away that they are irrelevant. And the background for that is an event that took place late in 1997, called the Kyoto Protocol. This protocol requires all countries, at least in the rich part of the world, to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions – not just Norway. As a result, the Danes have submitted a plan for the decommissioning of the most polluting gas power plants, without my knowledge, has been made dependent on the construction of Norwegian gas power plants. It is also worth noting that the Danes have decided to take a very large part of their commitment at home, and will start with the coal-fired power stations. I also want to reiterate an important point from what was SFT's assessment, namely that we will be able to import for up to 10 more years, and yet come out better environmentally, even in a global context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1687	During the processing of the energy message, SV has a number of proposals in addition to those of the Government, which illustrate that SV is on the offensive when it comes to environmental policy. One of these proposals, which is on the upgrading of power plants, is being adopted. It means something like one to two gas power stations, if you get a proper counting on it. But one proposal doesn't support the center party, and it's kind of surprising. Energy efficiency can easily be achieved if gas power plants are built. It is a little incomprehensible to SV that neither the Council of the Environment has so far taken a position on this, so now I want to challenge the Council of the Environment at this point. Should not the central government be in favour of this proposal, which imposes strict requirements for the efficiency of any gas power plant, as stringent requirements as those of one of the best power plants in Europe? The second question is related to the game you've seen from the force of nature and the owners there. The government is the general assembly of the owners of the natural force, so the government is strongly opposed by this company and does not get access to legal opinions from this company – but it gets the Labour Party and the Right. I wonder if the Council of State can do a little bit of something about whether it has consequences or will have consequences for such companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1696	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President suggests that the Storting proceed with the line change until it is completed and then cancel the morning meeting – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1699	Let me first make a confession. I have to admit that in the last few days it has been so fast that I am not quite sure what specific proposal SV here refers to, it may also have something to do with that it is within the scope of another Council of State initially. But I have such confidence in the centre parties in Stortinget that they have submitted all the proposals to a very careful assessment and have done what they think is best, even in an environmental sense. So over to the second question and these different legal assessments that have been going on – some more secret than others. Let me first say that it has been important for the Government to contribute to the transparency and transparency of these issues, because it should be important both for government and for opposition to have a certainty about where you stand in relation to the law in force. In the case of the owners of the natural force, it is companies that are operated in the usual commercial manner. However, the responsible state councils have also made a clear call to the management of these companies that they should take their civil liability seriously and contribute to the transparency and transparency of the documents available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1708	State Council Fjlangenger said in his reply to me earlier, and also in other replies, that we had to take into account the assumptions that had been made from the professional environments mentioned and that have stated what is environmentally beneficial for us, to continue to import coal power or to build gas power plants. One of these assumptions is that a gas power plant built in Norway will operate with the same technology for 30 years to come. I have to ask, is it really credible to base such a assumption? It would be similar if we in the North Sea today were to operate with the same technology that we did 30 years ago, and everyone knows that this is not the case at all – that is not the case at all. So this has to be at best called desktop theory, and in that way, it has to be factored in. My real question is related to the pollution law. Now the State Council has said in their statement that everything indicates that the Workers' Party is now going in to weaken this law, and that it is worrying. Then it is appropriate to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: Is it convenient for the Minister for the Environment that we obviously have a law allowing unlimited imports of coal power, and in that case – which will actually be possible in the future – coal power from Poland, which actually pollutes four times more – four times more – than power produced on Norwegian gas? If our legislation allows for that type of import and at the same time, according to the Minister for the Environment, that there is reason to doubt whether the same law makes it possible to produce gas power in Norway, I would like to hear what the Minister for the Environment has to say about this obvious environmental policy dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1717	Let me first repeat some of the important assumptions underlying the assessments made, among others. by NVE, SFT and SINTEF. Firstly, it is based on the fact that the electricity from Norwegian gas plants is not consumed by increased consumption. Secondly, it is based on a kind of guarantee that gas power plants replace coal-fired power plants, rather than, for example, coal-fired power stations. wind power plants or bioenergy. It is probably like a good image I mentioned before: if you want to replace an old car with a new one, and use environmental arguments for it, you have to have some certainty that what you replace is the old car and not a bike. And so are these gas power plants going to have a lifetime of up to 30 years. There's a difference between the technologies that we're talking about here. Some of them can be retrofitted, and some of them have to be there from the start. It's also taken into account in the calculations that have been made. It is also the case, as the Minister for Oil and Energy said, that although some of these can be retrofitted, there are limits to how late it is to retrofit new technologies during the lifetime of such a gas power plant. When it comes to weakening the law, I insist that it does. The consequence of what the Workers' Party wants to do is to deal with greenhouse gas emissions under the pollution law, but in that way no emission requirements can be imposed. I believe that in practice no regulation is being made. In addition, I believe that when it comes to NOx, the requirement for the best available technology is waived. The Pollution Act does not regulate the Nordic energy market, but we are working for an international quota system that will ensure that the various energy carriers will meet a price. In this respect, we are in a situation in which, for the time being – the Labour Party has said no to the CO2 tax on gas power plants – we do not want a national quota system, but want to use the pollution law, which they have now exhausted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-09.ana.ud54e1728	The cord shift is over. So the morning meeting is over. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
