ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e28	In the context of the research project ‘A value-creating Norway’, Torger Reve de maritime industries describes Norway’s only real global business cluster. That's right. That is why these industries must have internationally competitive frameworks at all stages – only to ensure that their maritime competence is not confused and that not all or part of the food clusters are lost, with a corresponding loss of the value creation potential of these industries. The overall maritime package adopted in the years 1994 to 1996 was a complex concept in which the framework conditions for shipyards, shipping companies and Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships were inserted into the context and balance necessary to derive the values that could be triggered in a comprehensive, highly skilled business cluster. Norwegian seafarers are crucial in this context. EU/EEA legislation allows up to 100 pst. compensation for the tax and social security costs incurred by shipping companies in connection with their own seafarers. The Code is based on the recognition that, in the absence of specific measures to ensure the safety of national seafarers, both fleets and low-cost countries will be deflagrated in the long term. Norway never went as far as the 100 pst-limit for national aid, but left to agree between the parties of 20 pst. of the total costs of shipping companies for Norwegian seafarers. This corresponds to approx. 55 pst. Reimbursement of taxes and social expenditure — well below that of, for example, Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom. 20 pst. reimbursement aid does not close the cost gap between Norwegian seafarers and seafarers from low-cost countries, but together with favourable tax rules for shipping companies, it was accepted in 1996 as sufficient for Norwegian shipping companies to cope with international competition. All Storting’s expectations for increased contracting in Norwegian shipyards, increased home flagging and increased recruitment were met. The good results should indicate that a person stuck to the arrangements adopted but instead chose the bulk of the population to experiment with the tolerance limit for the framework conditions, both in relation to the shipyards, in relation to the stripping tax and in relation to the reimbursement aid. The tax regime adopted for shipping companies has been under constant pressure and the tax burden on industry has doubled over the last few years. At the same time, other European countries have gone against and improved the framework conditions for their shipping. A Norwegian shipping company today has a lot to do with changing flags and moving its head office to, for example, the United Kingdom. The optimism that marked the industry from 1996 to the spring of 1998 is now gone. It gradually disappeared as the reimbursement aid was reduced and the tax pressure increased. The ongoing struggle for the framework conditions creates uncertainty for the future of these industries in Norway. It's not the shipping companies that have failed, it's the state. Severely deteriorated framework conditions have led to an acceleration of flagging and young people who have the theoretical part of their education in place may remain standing without the on-board apprenticeship needed to complete the training course. Millions put into expensive recruitment campaigns and timely maritime education may prove to be lost if the framework conditions do not allow Norwegian crew on board. Today's problems are not caused by greedy shipowners flying out to increase their returns. Shipowners are forced to fly out if they are to be able to get cargoes to the ships at all. Although a paid-up ship is recorded as a million-dollar asset on the shipowner, the ship is not just dead capital, it is a major expenditure item. NOK 100000 per year. day is no unusual cost of having a ship lying unsolicited. The shipping companies depend on being able to keep their entire fleet in cargo, and even with the entire fleet out, the return is not greater than that shipping companies with paid-up ships have to sell shares to pay the tax. The crew costs amount to approx. 60 pst. of the operating costs of a ship. When we know that e.g. Today, Polish teams cost about one third of Norwegian seafarers, it goes without saying that this in the North Sea region gives very difficult competitive conditions to those who try to keep Norwegian crew on board the longest. Similarly, the foreign fleet in distant waters can pick up crews from other low-cost countries. A 20 pst refund aid. does not compare, as I said, the difference in costs between Norwegian crews and low-cost crews. Reimbursement aid was part of a tax package, and overall it was sufficient to allow a minimum crew of Norwegian crew on board. The reduction from 20 pst. to 12 pst. was a dramatic deterioration. In addition, when one then receives Norwegian tax incentives, while other countries go the other way, 12 pst. not in close enough to maintain Norwegian staff and ensure recruitment over time. The budget settlement of the harvest resulted in a levy increase on bunker oil. This means that ships bunkered in Norway pay more in bunkers and tonnage tax than they receive in reimbursement aid for the crew. For many coastal shipping companies, this was the death penalty that set a sentence for the Norwegian flag and Norwegian seafarers. More than 50 ships from the NOR-registered small-ship fleet, with 500-600 Norwegian seafarers' jobs, have been flagged out in the last year and several flags have been notified. The bending loads are about to fly out. First out was the partially state-owned company Navion. Now the company follows Knutsen OAS, with notified deflagration for the first of its ships. Several will probably follow in quick order if nothing is done very quickly. The predominantly owned Statoil does not take national account of the conclusion of a contract and Norwegian bending loaders are in competition with others with much more favourable framework conditions. And the bending loads have been among the ships that have taken on most apprentices. They cannot continue to do so if the Norwegian crew are replaced by non-residents. The training offices, which are to provide apprenticeship places on board, have an almost hopeless task this year. It was hard last year. All the opportunities were taken advantage of, and the Shipowners' Association put a lot of millions in the pot to provide apprentice space for everyone. This year the apprentices are more, and the opportunities for apprenticeship are fewer because more have been out. This is the responsibility of the state, and it is the responsibility of the Workers' Party. In the opposition, the working party has been a driving force both to increase taxes and not only to reduce them, but has even proposed to remove the entire reimbursement aid. But it was in opposition. Now the Workers' Party has government responsibility. And although the Workers' Party does not exactly sound like sweet music in the ears of those who are engaged in maritime industries, my little optimism is linked to the person who is responsible for the maritime nutrition cluster. Grete Knudsen's name has a good sound. She was also the Council of State when competitive framework conditions were adopted in 1996, and she has previously shown that she understands and is interested in maritime industries. I hope she, as the Council of State, immediately takes up the work of restoring the reimbursement support to 20 p.m., and as soon as possible the bending loads are re-entered into the reimbursement support system. Although the Workers' Party was initially opposed to the reliefs in the shipping tax introduced in 1996, they cannot at the moment ignore the fact that, as at the time, a favourable Norwegian scheme has been implemented in the other European shipping nations, while our arrangements have been tightened up. Although we are faced with a budget audit that can be very difficult, we have a responsibility for giving Norwegian industries a competitive framework. The amounts involved in providing adequate reimbursement support are small amounts in relation to the significant values of the maritime industries supplying the country. Now we are at full speed towards the state before 1994, and something has to be done quickly to restore the damage that the industry has suffered in recent years. Norway has always been a maritime nation, and maritime industries are fundamental to life and settlement along the coast. Today’s revenues from oil and gas overshadowing the economic importance of shipping must not lead us to underestimate the long-term value of maintaining our dominant position as a shipping nation. Taking care of our maritime heritage is part of our obligations to future generations. Business is changing all the time. Old industries are disappearing and new ones are emerging, but shipping will always be important, and Norway is at the top of the world. It is a political responsibility to ensure that the maritime industries are provided with long-term framework conditions that allow the global operation of Norwegian teams. The overall framework must be so good that Norwegian maritime environments dare to invest in long-term industrial development that will cause some hundreds of millions of losses during the development period, but which in the long term strengthen competitiveness and provide a knowledge leap in relation to others. The lack of stability that has marked last year's shipping policy does not imply such a commitment. If we are to succeed, we must have a high level of competence at all levels of industry, and the seafarers are key personnel both at sea and in related industries and onshore development projects. Therefore, it is important that maritime transport, through fiscal conditions, which also provide adequate reimbursement support, is secured by its first-preferential skilled, educationally-seeking young people. What will the Council of State do to ensure this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e66	Shipping is half of Norwegian service exports and has a significant impact on Norwegian economy and employment. The Norwegian fleet has maintained its position internationally and remains the third largest in the world. Norway has the highest share of the fleet under its flag among the traditional shipping countries. The maritime businesses are located along our entire coast and are of great importance to the districts. In my opinion, this activity will continue to be an important part of Norwegian business in the future. Maritime transport is an industry of fierce international competition. The market for shipping services has also traditionally been characterised by free competition with few restrictions. The competitive situation has also led to a significant use of labour from countries with low labour costs by international shipping. The Norwegian International Ship Register (NIS) was established in 1987 to improve the competitive situation of ships operating on international voyages under the flag of Norway. This was an important and forward-looking measure, adopted by the Storting on a proposal from the then government. Norwegian shipping is highly dependent on the economic cycle of the various markets. Income can thus vary considerably over time. This means that these companies must live with uncertainty and risk, where there are periods of high income and periods when it is difficult to cover costs. We want to have framework conditions that are as stable as possible over time, with which businesses can live in good times as well as in bad times. In order for Norway to remain an attractive host country for the shipping industry, the regulatory framework conditions in Norway cannot be significantly different from those in other countries. Perhaps to a greater extent than for many other industries, the capital of this industry is mobile across borders. We also know that shipping is subject to very little international taxation. We have to deal with this when designing shipping policy. Our national measures must be kept within the framework of EU legislation, to which we are bound by the EEA Agreement. The main regulatory framework conditions for Norwegian shipping consist of the Norwegian International Ship Register (NIS), which was established in 1987, the Norwegian Seafarer employment refund scheme in 1994 and the new shipping tax in 1996. These contributed to a growth in Norwegian fleet in the last half of the 1990s. Overall, during this period there was also an increase in the number of Norwegian seafarers and apprenticeships in Norwegian ships. In recent years, the majority has chosen to keep the main features of the Norwegian shipping tax. Only a certain adjustment of amounts and other adjustments has been made. With effect from 1 January of this year, an environmental differentiation of tonnage tax was introduced in order to raise the environmental standard for Norwegian ships. Since Norway introduced tonnage taxation for shipping companies in 1996, more and more countries in Europe have introduced or are in the process of implementing a similar system. The Government will take into account the competitive situation in examining the shipowner’s assessment in the context of the next year’s budget. We do not want to propose amendments that would give Norwegian shipping worse conditions than shipping in other countries. The reimbursement scheme was introduced in its current form in 1994 and had a framework of 340 million. kr. From 1996, the scheme was extended to Norwegian International Ship Register (NIS) ships. The number of seafarers under the scheme increased, and the cost came to 520 million. kr on an annual basis. The scheme was so evaluated in 1998 and a new and more targeted legislation was established by the Stortinget. Some groups were removed from the scheme and more focused on direct recruitment and training. To reduce the cost, the rate was reduced from 20 to 12 pst. The scheme helps to ensure a core of employment opportunities for seafarers in the Norwegian maritime environment and to improve the training of seafarers’ youth. Norwegian international shipping cannot be maintained in the long term without a core of practical and theoretical maritime competence in our country. In addition, maritime transport is an important part of the entire infrastructure of coastal communities. The need for measures such as the reimbursement scheme will vary over time, depending on both competition from abroad and the situation in the Norwegian labour market. Recent developments show increased competition for coastal missions and increasing cost pressures in international shipping. In recent times, the shipowners have, to some extent, removed Norwegian crews and are more detained than before with Norwegian recruitment. However, at the same time, the shipping industry has gained a competitive framework. The important thing is that these are stable. Together with the industry, I will now discuss how to develop the technology share of products and services. The same applies to proximity to research and education environments. I would therefore like to first of all appoint a separate advisory group from the maritime cluster environment and from the education, research and technology environments. How industries will cope in a reality of increasing competition is the challenge. Then I am sure that changeability, quality and competence will be central. Then it is also important that the entire Norwegian cluster can go in such a direction. Indeed, the normal instruments of the authorities will be targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e89	The Council of State describes a picture of Norwegian shipping that you can sit and nod to, that it is until she realizes that the industry has competitive framework conditions, because it is not right today. When the Federation of Shipowners has sunk its recruitment campaign, it's because of the fear that you can't get the apprentices out. It was really hard last year, it's getting even harder this year. The number of ships that have the ability to accept apprentices is reduced, and we have to do something about that. We cannot have an uncertainty about education and maritime workplaces that makes young people unable to apply for this education. When the training offices today report that they have no apprenticeship space to nearly half of the students, there is a situation that we in the Stortinget must take very seriously. The bending loads are central vessel groups in relation to the training. For the time being, they have apprentices on board, but flag them out, and that's what they're doing, these apprenticeships are disappearing. And that's a lot of apprenticeship places. I will mention some figures: the reimbursement aid in 1996 was 361 222 000 kroner. The net cost for the company to keep this Norwegian crew on board was NOK 1444 888 000, to be accurate. In 2000, the reimbursement aid has been reduced compared to four years earlier to 330 million. kr. And the total costs of shipping companies for the crews that trigger reimbursement support have risen to NOK 2 420,000,000. This tells us something about an imbalance in the package that was adopted. There was a package where the sailors went in, the shipping companies went in and the state went in, and the state is the only one that has reduced its share of the agreement that was based on. The Council of State Knudsen was involved in drawing up and signing this agreement. That is why I had a hope that the Council of State would now say: Yes, we are going to restore the agreement that existed until the central government started messing with it. When the proposal that reduced the reimbursement aid was presented, all the opinions of the industry and the Ministry were positive to the scheme that was in place, and they underlined that this agreement was very bad. Shocking things are not toying with, and that's what's happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e96	First, I must praise the enthusiasm and interest shown by the representative. But when Inger Stolt-Nielsen referred to Torger Reve, as just, among other things. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, she has submitted an analysis that shows that we have a very strong maritime cluster in Norway, she did not accept that he has also added that they have obtained very good framework conditions, and a good part of the job must also be done by those who have been shown so confident that they have, as I said before, been given both in the cargo and the mast in some areas of the framework conditions. So part of the challenge also needs to be addressed by the individual industry when faced with ever-increasing international demands. If the reimbursement scheme is improved then the only measure is not that sure, and that is exactly what I want to discuss with a maritime advisory group; I think this is exactly what I want to do with, among other things. proximity to research environments is important, perhaps with combination schemes for those who go the practical way, to also get help to take on higher education. There could be a lot of different ways forward. But I said in my first post that I want to take the initiative of such an advisory group because the maritime cluster is very important. At the same time, we also need to see what ordinary means this industry can use. Among other things, we know that for the NOR fleet, one of the major problems is the renewal of the fleet, and not unilaterally that society should participate with certain percentages of wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e105	I will also begin by commending the representative Inger Pride-Nielsen for her commitment to this matter. It's a matter that's important to all of Norway, and it's a matter that's not least important to us who's on the coast. Norwegian shipping has long traditions, and maritime industries have had a lot to say for Norwegian economy and for Norwegian employment. The Norwegian fleet is still one of the world’s largest — it is important not to lose sight of it — and it also has much to say for the Norwegian economy today. There is also reason to recall that a large Norwegian fleet creates ring-fences with supplies of marine equipment, supplies from the shipping industry, shipbrokering, and it provides a basis for many workplaces in the shipping offices — all of this, of course, in addition to work on board ships. In this way, the maritime businesses along the whole coast are also involved in securing activity and prosperity in the district of Norway. There were many ships flying out in the 1980s and 1990s, and this was not a development we wanted. The authorities therefore had to look at new framework conditions for this industry. The reimbursement scheme for Norwegian seafarers and the taxation of the fleet teams we have received have contributed to better framework conditions for the Norwegian shipping industry – we should be able to say a few things about that. However, it is important to bear in mind that the exact reimbursement system was established at a time of unemployment in Norway, and in today’s labour market there is actually a shortage of labour that is the main problem. Like many other industries, shipping becomes subject to tough international competition, and Norwegian industry, including shipping, needs competitive and stable framework conditions to cope with this competition. It's not bad. From the Workers' Party's side, it is a wish that shipping should continue to be an industry based in Norway, and both the framework conditions of the authorities and the industry's own willingness to convert will be important in this context. I would like very much to welcome the dialogue initiated by the Government through the Council of State of Grete Knudsen's Advisory Group. It's a positive contribution. In this context, it will be possible to clarify the situation, and not least, it will allow priority to be given to the measures needed to enable Norwegian maritime industry to compete and maintain its position. Here, too, it is up to the industry to commit itself – what can they do themselves, who can cooperate with to ensure that the industry will also be able to do so in the future – and then we will see what it is necessary for Norwegian authorities to do in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e126	It is important that the Storting again focuses on the maritime industries for the reasons the interpellant denominator. The party of progress strongly warned when the majority of the population chose to reduce the reimbursement scheme from 20 to 12 pst. and excluded some ship groups in the spring of 1998. In the two subsequent budgetary proceedings, for 1999 and 2000, we proposed increasing the level of aid in the reimbursement scheme to 20 pst. of gross wage and salary costs, including Norwegian international ferry companies, bow loaders for the transport of crude oil and training positions in NIS in the scheme. The scheme was introduced in 1994, as mentioned, and both shipping companies and maritime organisations followed up their promises and contributions. Following the establishment of the reimbursement scheme at a safe level and for a wide range of ship groups, this worked satisfactorily with an employment gain of an estimated 3000 Norwegian seafarers. The background to the introduction of the reimbursement scheme was the recognition that Norwegian seafarers had suffered a severe competitive handicap not only in relation to remoter strokes but also in relation to our closest competitors in Western Europe. It is well documented by Econ that, among other things, the authorities of Denmark, the Netherlands and England have sound financial arrangements for their seafarers. And on shipping, we might have the most international and most open labour market available. The ideal would, of course, be whether this was a market free from selective schemes, but the reality is quite different. In the years ahead, there is a lot of evidence that the shipping industry has to compete hard for skilled youth. Therefore, it is important that we do not create uncertainties about the long-term sustainability of the reimbursement scheme. The progress game will have it increased to 20 pst. and include the same groups of vessels as before. And such a system should be fixed for at least a full rise period at a time in order to provide long-term, predictable and sufficiently competitive framework conditions for shipping. So finally: Storing and government must see the seriousness of the situation and contribute so that our country, Norwegian shipping with Norwegian crews and Norwegian officers on the seven seas, will be a leading shipping nation in the future. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to balance some of the differences in compensation of employees between Norwegian seafarers on the one hand and, for example, between Norwegian seafarers on the other. Filipinos, Indians and Poles on the other. This must be clear: it is not possible to imagine Norway as a leading maritime nation in the years to come without a sufficient number of our own that dominate this craft. That is what is happening in today's Maritime Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e139	I listened with great interest to the Council of State's answer to the interpellant's questions, also because there were many expectations and hopes on the part of the interpellant to the Council of State for a positive confirmation of improving the framework conditions for the shipping industry. Now there were little promises in the Council's response, but completely gone were the quite negative attacks that the Workers' Party has had both on the reimbursement system and on the shipping tax, since these schemes were introduced – one in 1994 and the other in 1996. When the shipping policy was changed in this house, it was the centre parties together with the Right and the Advance Party that stood for it, even when Grete Knudsen was the Minister of Shipping last time. But it is true that Grete Knudsen has expressed herself very positively, but she did not get an impact on her view in the previous government she was a member of. I hope what she said here, at least means that it's the end of the negative attacks both on the reimbursement scheme and on the shipping tax. That's something! The new shipping policy has produced results – 3,000 more seafarers on international voyages, 19 p.m. increase in Norwegian-owned ships in the foreign fleet, two out of three Norwegian ships flying the flag of Norway, and 4000 young people in maritime education and training. We are still a significant nation in shipping, and we have the world's best and most competent maritime environment. So to balance and give a necessary and positive description of what is happening in Norwegian shipping is necessary, I think, after some of these posts. However, several changes have taken place since 1996 which have had an impact on the competitiveness of Norwegian shipping. Structural changes have taken place in the same way as in the media, in finance, in telecommunications. Several countries have followed Norway’s example and introduced the favourable tax conditions that Norway alone had, the market has changed for parts of the fleet, but restrictions have also been made as part of sound financial policies, and there may be different views on both the reimbursement scheme and the Norwegian shipping tax. It is clear that when all these contractions work together, Norwegian shipping has been unfortunate, and it has created an uncertainty. My call to the Minister for Maritime Affairs is to confirm that there will be stability in the framework conditions for Norwegian shipping. I think that is the most important signal that can be given from Stortinget today – that she can confirm that both the shipping tax and the reimbursement scheme will last at least at the level it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e152	When the bulk of the population adopted a special tax on shipping in 1996, it was strongly criticised in many disciplines, including: because it was built on the so-called cluster theory — the belief that this was a special cluster with special profitability — and that it was important to take care of the main core areas of this business, namely shipping companies. So now it's confirmed that this cluster exists and that it has better profitability and that theories actually work. But it hasn't been easy, because the trade unions were strongly critical of what you did, but there are also others who have been very critical. I would like to say that I agree with what Steensnæs says in his post. He said a lot of that too I was going to say. One of the problems of making this tax haven and other arrangements work has been a massive pick-up business, a violent aggression in the argument, especially from the management of the Workers' Party, so that very many companies and very many in industry have been afraid that this will not be a permanent tax regime. Because it's a tax regime that requires major reorganisations, which requires a lot when you're going into it, there are also many who have been sitting and waiting and have not wanted to go into it, and we've experienced that because you've been afraid that this regime would only be short-lived, you've chosen to move out business despite having favorable framework conditions. So good framework conditions aren't enough if you don't think they're going to last. Therefore, there was one sentence in what the Council of State said, which was important, namely that it was important with as much equal framework conditions as possible with the rest of the world for this industry. It is also important to note the signal given in the submissions of the Council of State, that there was no critical attitude now, but that the majority did so in 1996 when establishing the special taxation system for shipping and shipping – that it is now almost incorporated into the policies of the Workers' Party. It is important, then, to be confirmed by the Council of State here today that the Workers' Party has not now planned to propose amendments to the tax system which is, as they actually did, a long electoral campaign in 1997, namely that they would eliminate the specific shipping tax. I want to know if it is such that the Council of State brings with it the rest of the Government on the statement that came today, unfortunately it was so that the last time she was a shipping minister she did not have the Government on her positive attitude to shipping. If this signal in this debate is to mean something in the future, it must be such that it represents the entire government's policy, and that we do not get any surprises at the next harvest budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e163	This debate will again show that there is enthusiasm in Stortinget, as it is among the Norwegian people, for shipping. It is an industry that deserves a debate again and again, also a debate that may be a bit detached from the big lines. The centre party wants stability and long-termity in the framework conditions of the maritime industries, and in particular in the case of shipping. Experiments do not apply to the framework conditions for such industries. The fact that reimbursement rates were reduced for a few years ago is not an example of experimentation. It was the result of an evaluation. There were some groups of boats that were taken out, and there were some groups of employees that were taken out. Those who were retained were the groups of employees needed to recruit for the seafarer's profession. It must not be that the seafarers' profession should be an instrument of labour market measures – that when there is little leave, we do not need the seafarers. We have to have greater long-termity in this. We need to provide safe and interesting jobs for those young people who want to stay here, and fortunately, jobs on ships have become advanced jobs. Those who come from there can go into other businesses on land afterwards. The state has done a great deal to build up Norwegian shipping, and in my opinion the reimbursement system has worked well. That structure has occurred as a fissure layer with the industry itself. It was the shipping industry itself that thought they could do just as well without the Norwegians on board, but it is therefore not possible to create Norwegian officers without Norwegian sailors. It was natural to achieve the cooperation that we got. The result has been good. I hope now that shipowners are aware that they do not choose the seafarers once again, that they do not act together with the other maritime industries only when it comes to defending the framework conditions they have been given, or ask for improvements, but that they too, for example, do. indicates that they wish to use Norwegian shipyards for the construction of their ships to a greater extent than they have sometimes done before. Fortunately, we have many examples of success both in the shipping industry and in the related industries, such as shipbuilding. The only thing I see as very negative today is that as a shipping nation, we can't build our own frigates, we're the only shipping country in the world that can't do it. But it is over, and I hope we do not experience such setbacks later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e178	At times, one feels committed to a slightly reverse world, because here, right, well supported by many representatives, goes in the rush to have an industry – and at the top of all one of Norway’s richest and strongest and strongest industries – not only one suction pipe in the state treasury, but obviously many suction pipes in the state treasury. What we're talking about is last year we spent 317 million. kr in the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, which contributes to the financing of compensation of employees by the State for Norwegian seafarers. We're talking at the top of everything about an industry that's done that piece of art, unlike all the other industries in Norway, to get tax exemptions. And the reason for that is to claim that it is a competitive industry, as there are many countries in the world that have similar good support schemes. And that is, of course, true, but it is not possible to find an industry that operates in Norway, for which there is no example of better framework conditions in another country. The favourable Norwegian shipping tax has meant that all countries around the North Sea have now introduced this type of tax in some form. Norway was therefore in the brink of tax dumping around the North Sea, which resulted in improvements in shipping tax in Belgium, the Netherlands, Denmark and now England because Norway was leading the way. And then on top of everything, we're going to have a refund scheme for pay. What is sad, unfortunately, is that what has initially been a proud and powerful and viable industry, and one of the industries that will actually be able to recruit its own crews, appears to be one of Norway's largest sewing industries. What I think is the top of all the most parody, is that you no longer recruit Norwegian seafarers, because the wage costs are said to be too high. Think again about the reasoning: the cost of compensation of employees is too high. I assume that one of the reasons why Norwegian shipping is as good as it is is that it has skilled employees – Norwegian and foreign. And if you think it's important to have Norwegian officers, then of course you have to take the cost of taking them in as sailors and teaching them all the way up. It's not just an expense, it's also an income. Skilled seafarers have quality, quality that brings income back to the company. In many ways, then, the company accounts that the Norwegian shipping industry performs are also a reverse account, because everything that is quality is produced as a cost, and that's not the way it is. Divicious seafarers are, of course, a significant source of income for Norwegian shipping companies, as is the case for all other enterprises with skilled employees. Unfortunately, Norwegian shipping companies are a highly subsidised industry, but should not have been. It may well be allowed to say that in conclusion, as I disappear a little in the minority – in this room that praises Norwegian shipping industry in the clouds. There is reason to draw up Darwin P. Erlanden's words that it is now time for Norwegian shipping industry to merge, stop being a seventeenth industry and instead appear to be a modern, viable industry that looks into the millennium we have now entered, without relying on significant tax subsidies from the Norwegian big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e190	For centuries Norway has been the world leader in shipping and the maritime sector — despite the fact that it is an industry that is exposed to strong international competition. With just under 1 per million of the population in the world, Norwegian shipowners today own almost 10 pst. of the world's fleet. It has provided and provides extensive ring-effects for the other parts of Norwegian business, as well as for housing and income base in very many communities. It is a well-known fact that parts of the Norwegian fleet suffer from a lack of acceptable profitability. This applies not least to the coastal cargo fleet. A fleet with a ship's average age of over 40 years indicates that the return has not been a good enough basis for renewal. Such an old fleet is a little attractive in the recruitment context. In the years ahead, efforts need to be stepped up to stimulate the renewal of the ship's fleet and, above all, to stimulate increased investment in maritime transport in Norwegian transport policy. For a number of reasons, not least environmental policy, it is important that maritime transport should be given the best possible framework conditions. It is therefore important to avoid delays in progress with the national transport plan, where for the first time port policy is part of a common overall transport plan. Nor are the maritime industries being totally protected by the tight budget cuts that were necessary to cool down the economy and bring interest down. But in general terms, we have maintained a good tax and good framework conditions for the maritime industries, with the reimbursement scheme as an important element. It is the clear view of the Left that this policy should be pursued and even improved. Unfortunately, we have experienced years of significant political struggle rounds, with uncertainty about the framework conditions as a consequence. The opposition of the Labour Party to some of the financial instruments has been evident. With the budgetary agreement for the current year, the Left expects the basis to be present to release the annual rematches, with subsequent uncertainty and lack of predictability of the industry. I share Mr Stolt-Nielsen's commitment to the Norwegian maritime industries. But unlike Stolt-Nielsen, I see good opportunities for Norwegian shipping in the future as well. The framework conditions must then remain competitive, and we must be committed to exploiting the potential of Norway in the areas of technology, competence and the strong, holistic shipping environment. We are at the forefront of international competition in finding and developing niches in the market with high standards of competence. Such clusters exist several places along our coast. Not least, we find such complete clusters, for example. on Sunnmøre, which has one of the most innovative and exciting environments in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e203	It is an affordable debate that is going on today. The representative Stolt-Nielsen has raised an issue that is incredibly important for anyone living and living along the coast. It is a regrettable fact that the reimbursement system introduced in 1994 to safeguard the interests of Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian seafarers' jobs is now largely gone. While the reduction in the reimbursement aid to 12 pst. is this supply of the CO2 tax of 26 øre. I am thinking especially of the coastal cargo fleet. There is also another fact that is not mentioned here, and that is that five men working on a NOR-registered boat cost 3.1 million. kr. Five foreign teams cost 1 million. kr – if you register the boat abroad, it costs 1 million. kr to have five men at work. It's obvious what happens then. Vessels are being flagged out. In order to be loaded on Norwegian ports, you must either have NOR registered or abroad registered boat. If the boat is registered in NIS, Norwegian International Ship Register, it may not be loaded into Norwegian ports. The shipowners could be registered in NIS to save costs if allowed, but they do not. Remember, the figures, the tariffs I mentioned, are approved by the ITF, the International Transport Workers' Federation. There's a difference of 3.1 million. NOK 1 million. SEK in wages and salaries for five Norwegian and five foreign seafarers respectively. It's approved by the ITF. It must be a cross of thought for the Council of State, and I ask her to have it with her. The coastal cargo fleet needs the following arrangements in order to have viable conditions in the future: a conditioning system, a proper financing system for new buildings, a better reimbursement system and, of course, a reduction in the CO2 tax. And it's urgent! In addition, it is time for research to be started on high-speed freighters that can relieve road traffic and subsidise it. I could say a lot about subsidies from this pulpit, but I'm not going to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e216	The President has no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e219	What this interpellation is about is that in the last year, more than 50 ships from the small-scale fleet are flying out, and 500-600 Norwegian seafarer's jobs have been lost. It's been very quiet. When the representative Djupedal says that Norwegian shipping industry appears to be a sewing industry, I think there is every reason to take a strong distance from this. I also think that the representative Djupedal would have stood to deal with the real world, and in the real world, ownership and capital are factors that cannot be stopped by any kind of boundaries. In this area, we are best in the world, without comparison to any other area in Norway, we see that here we top up the statistics in the world, and it's about providing this industry with long-term and sustainable framework conditions. It affects 70 000 to 80 000 jobs only in Norway, so it is one of the largest domestic industries we have to deal with. What has actually happened, and which I record as some have forgotten, is that since 1997, when the Bondevik government came to power, the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime industry have been systematically deteriorated. This is contrary to what was promised during the election campaign in 1997. Not only have more groups of vessels been removed from the scheme, but the reimbursement aid has been reduced from 20 to 12 pst. Those who are able to remember as far back as 1998 know that the Bondevik government actually made proposals to remove the whole scheme. But thanks to the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party were hard on, they actually survived the 12 pst. And that's what makes me a little skeptical about what kind of possibilities we have for a majority constellation when we see a few years ahead. This industry deserves stability and deserves framework conditions that make what has been the success factor No. one – Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian ships – may continue to exist. I choose to interpret the Council of State positively when she says she wants to take the initiative of an advisory group to engage in close and good dialogue with the maritime industry. For the terms used here, and the policies that have been in place for the past two and a half years, have systematically weakened this industry's framework conditions, which has caused us today not to see the positive factors, but the negative factors, which we have warned against every two fiscal years. That's why it's very important that you listen to the maritime industry, and that you don't think of it as Syd and Mass. I don't think those who work at Norwegian shipyards or sit in jobs that have the whole world as a market feel that stability characterizes this industry today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e232	First, I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I'm very happy that there are so many who are engaged and talk warmly about the importance of maritime industries. It is only the case that the same people who talk very much about the industries also agree to decide that the framework conditions should be long-term, stable and competitive. It's not useful with party speeches if we don't meet these expectations. Governments have given positive signals of contact, form an advisory group and see what can be done in consultation with industry. That the reimbursement aid is one of the essential elements here, I'm not in doubt about it. Then it was said that the industry itself has to take challenges and responsibilities. That's what the industry has done. There were very positive results in the first few years when the reimbursement aid was 20 pst. and the tax framework was good. The industry delivered results far beyond what Stortinget had expected. It is also said that research and development should now be considered. Yes, that's what I also underlined in my interpellation. If the industry is to dare to participate in research and development projects, they must have framework conditions that are stable over time. That is why I have certainly had a never-ending hope for Grete Knudsen, who has been a committed person in terms of maritime industries before. It turned out that the center parties who were very positive and very cooperative to put in place good framework conditions as long as they were in opposition turned right away. There were election vows that went out on date. The Workers' Party has not promised anything, but I nevertheless hope that the Council of State Knudsen will be able to see through to its government. I hope the Prime Minister knew what he did when he put Grete Knudsen into this particular position. Reimbursement aid is not a percentage of wages and salaries, it is a percentage of total costs. A 20 pst support. ==References====External links== 55 pst. of the framework allowed within the EEA territory. It was reduced, and now we're down to approx. 30 pst. of the national support that can be provided. And when you're talking about subsidisation and suction pipes in the state treasury, you have to remember that these little puzzles are worth 300 million. So kr will trigger tax revenue from direct shipowners to land and to water of more than NOK 6 billion. It's a cost for the acquisition of income. The shipowners can manage – clearly! We have good Norwegian shipowners. The only question is: are they going to manage and develop in Norway, or are they going to do so abroad? Are Norwegian seafarers to be involved in the development, or are they to be re-trained and re-trained to caregivers? That's what many add up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e245	I take part in the further work that there is a solid majority in order that there should still be a tonnage system and a reimbursement scheme for the most international industry, namely the maritime industry. The system that the industry has been given is clearly committed to, as also Stolt-Nielsen stressed. A number of countries that now have or are in the process of imposing tonnage taxes do not have a reimbursement scheme, and some that have a large reimbursement scheme do not have a tonnage tax either. So it's a much more broken picture of the different countries, but now it's changing. The restrictions that were made on proposals from the Bondevik administration and in budgetary settlements with the Workers' Party, I assume that I was made on the basis of the assessment that it was actually thought that it was both sound and correct. It is clear that since Norway introduced the tonnage tax on shipping companies in 1996, several countries have now introduced a similar system. And as I said in my post, the Labour Party government does not want to propose changes that will provide Norwegian shipping with lower tax conditions than the shipping in other countries. When the tonnage system was introduced in Norway by a majority on the Stortinget, it was not right that the workers' party government did not propose relief, but we proposed another system, which did not get a majority here, namely a depreciation system. And just a little line to the representative of Djupedal in the end: it's probably true that the Netherlands was the first to offer relief – it wasn't that Norway came first. The majority in this case was the template that was then introduced in the Netherlands. But here, as you know, the Labour Party government had suggested a different system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e260	So the debate is on case No. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e266	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-02-2.ana.ud1593e282	In Case No: 2–6 not yet rated.
