ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18138	..and gentlemen of Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 58th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, welcome all present, I welcome the members of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, representatives of the OHR, the OSC, the European Union, the Special Representative of the Council of Europe, the Head of Mission in BiH, representatives of the Observer mission in BiH, representatives of the BiH Embassy, who expressed interest in monitoring the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, the UN, representatives of NGOs, the Centre of Civil Initiatives and the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society. Of course, a representative of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council was also invited to discuss the Annual Report of the Council for 2004. I welcome the representatives of the media, so I welcome everyone present here in this Chamber, if I am not someone in particular, members of the Election Commission, presidents and members of the Election Commission, if I haven't mentioned anyone specifically, I ask that you forgive me, therefore the greeting applies to all those present in this Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, at this session we have one previous question. Is Mrs. Komšić here? Yes, it is. Which we're going to do before we move on to a debate on the agenda proposal. From the BiH Election Commission, I was informed, respectively, that instead of Mr Ivo Mire Jović, the mandate of MPs was assigned to Mrs Vlatka Komšić, the next qualified candidate from the HDZ-demist coalition list. I invited Mrs Komšić to the session, she is present and I urge her to join in giving a solemn statement so that she can exercise her rights, her parliamentary rights and obligations. Mrs. Komšić, please. Please stand up. Please, we're approaching a solemn statement, a little attention. I declare that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18139	I pledge to be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18140	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18141	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18142	Full implementation of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18143	fully lead the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18144	to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18145	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18146	Mrs Komšić, on behalf of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, has adopted a personal name, I congratulate you on this very solemn statement and I wish you a lot of success in your work as an MP or representative at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18148	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, you have received a proposal for today's session, but before I realize that according to the Professional Service report, we have a sufficient number, new MPs arrive at any moment, I will not tell you what the current situation is but quorum we have, sufficient number for full work and decision-making of today's House of Representatives session. You've received a call for today's session. Since then, some changes in the agenda have occurred to this day. You have received amendments that have been agreed on at the College and later on at the Extended College of the Parliamentary House of BiH. These are therefore, a new point 5 has been added, which is the request of MP Momčilo Novaković to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Next, point 6 of the Council of Ministers' request for an examination of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Criminal Procedure of BiH, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure. Then, they added contracts between BiH, the Republic of Croatia on common locations at the border crossings, where we received this agreement regarding Kostanica. Then it's 2,4,6,7 contracts. The agenda, appointment and resolution of members of the House's committee have been added. Since we have verified today the mandate of the new MP in Parliament, and the seats on the committees of Mr Ivo Mire Jović have remained vacant, so today it also needs a harmonised agenda point and a proposal for a conclusion as the 3 last item of the agenda on the procedure for the appointment of three members of the BiH Election Commission. You have received this proposal conclusion and we will, of course, open the debate today. I hope to adopt that conclusion and fulfil my legal obligation by the end of this month, we have also selected these three members of the Election Commission instead of these foreign members of the Election Commission, so that the Election Commission of BiH, without interruption of continuity in full capacity, can act and carry out its responsibilities and tasks. Dear colleagues and colleagues, that's what we agreed today as additional points of the agenda. I don't think I'm anything, please, so point 6, that's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ombious Law, because the competent commission didn't finish the job, there was no statement from the Council of Ministers, a new deadline of 30 days was given, and I think that's what we agreed today and it's practically a agenda. We had another request here. It is a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers to address this House and inform us of the current situation and BiH. This morning, the College accepted the request, so the members of the College, the three of us accepted the request, but in the enlarged College, there was no agreement to include that item on the agenda in this way, so that is not the point of the agenda. I informed the Prime Minister's Chairman and received information from him that if he did not have the consent of this College that he did not need to submit such information, then I would not put it as a proposal for a plea after the College's decision and talks with the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Nikola Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18149	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, of course, I gave my consent to the agenda which the chairman has read here but I want to say publicly that I think there are many reasons that today in the framework of this session, no matter what point of the agenda, we hear the address of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, versus the new situation in the Council of Ministers. I don't think today would be Parliament's responsibility if we hadn't personally asked the Council of Ministers for this. We can do whatever we want, hide the incompetence of the BiH executive government to speed up reforms, we can tell citizens that they live better every day, that they don't see it. So we can do whatever we want, but I'm convinced we can't do as long as we want because everything we do is obvious. After Prime Minister Terzić's decision to accept the resignation of Mr Mladen Ivanić, after accepting the resignation of Prime Minister Branko Dokić, after information that there has been no Council of Ministers meeting in the last 20 days, the chairman today should address parlament and say whether he controls the situation in the Council of Ministers and whether he is in a position to schedule meetings and whether he assumes that the Council of Ministers can work with full capacity and propose laws to this Parliament. That's what we should be as MPs to be interested in. I know that there will be different stories, different answers, all right, there will be reforms, we will work with two ministers from the order of the Serbian people, etc. Or this is some kind of deal that I find incomprehensible. 4 So, I think and here I suggest that there is a need today for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to address Parliament and say, why there has been no meeting for 20 days, at a time when we are saying that there are more to blame for BiH being late in meeting the conditions. Will he be without the Council of Ministers for the next 20 days or a month? Is there going to be a Council of Ministers meeting today? So these are the things that I am interested in as an MP in this state parliament. I think we should also call on this House to adopt, to be the item of the agenda in which the chairman would address Parliament. And when that's the point and if it is, then I'll take part in the debate and say what I think about the work of the Council of Ministers. But what I'm very afraid of is that this Council of Ministers has ruled for itself in this way and that, in order for it to be possible, it may happen that Adnan Terzić, at the next session, will come and say that I am also resigning and fortunately, this country has no Council of Ministers but we will choose a new one, I say fortunately this country has no Council of Ministers, because it is better that there is no one like him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18150	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, may Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18151	Madam Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, I have realized that Mr Špirić is actually proposing today that a point be found on the agenda or that address be made, I did not realize what this item of the agenda will be called, but here it means that it will happen or that the address of the Chair of the Council of Ministers will happen to this Parliament. I must say that I, at the Enlarged College, opposed not to speaking to the chairman of the Council of Ministers but against it being a mandatory point of order, given that the Rules of Procedure only allow it to address the Council of Ministers with that request. Since it was not the request of the Council of Ministers but of the Chair of the Council of Ministers, I felt that it could not be a point, a mandatory item of the agenda, but of course in this procedure we can determine whether or not to be a part of the agenda. The second thing that has been written and written in this request is that Mr. Terzić addresses the topic of the current situation in BiH, I believe that the chairman of the Council of Ministers does not have the capacity to elaborate on such a wide range of agendas in front of Parliament, because this could be a broader issue than the chairman of the Council of Ministers can, therefore, in view of this, its obligations and its tasks, and that it was logical that Mr. Terzić asked to address the subject of the functioning of the Council of Ministers, i.e. executive government. I assume that Mr Špirić, in that sense, has proposed a point of the agenda, which will talk about the functioning or, not functioning, however you wish, of the Council of Ministers. If of course this is the point of the agenda, we're going to take this thank Bog, we're going to take part in the debate, but I wanted to explain why I think the chairman made a mistake with this request, or that we couldn't accept it at the Enlarged College. 5 Of course, that I am this way, i.e. the request itself, is very discriminatory with that, and with the fact that the Council of Ministers was not sitting and that of course he could not suggest that it be found on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18152	Dear colleagues and colleagues, before I give my word to Mr. Lagumdzija, as far as this issue is concerned, if your discussions are about this issue, I would ask that this matter be resolved in the following way. So, the College this morning accepted the request of the Council of Ministers, and here, we can also reform that request and say that this is the information of the Chair of the Council of Ministers on the state of the Council of Ministers and of the College that this should be the point of the agenda today, if your discussions are announced on this, we suggest that you accept the position of the College, that is our right and our obligation and ultimately, our responsibility and that we respect, therefore, this requirement for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to address, of course on this topic of state in the Council of Ministers, what is, of course, the capacity of the Council of Ministers chairman and to be the second point, right behind the minutes. If your discussions refer to this, to this matter, to deny ourselves this, the need for discussions now, we will discuss it later after this information is submitted. I would ask you to appreciate this, if your discussions were about this. Do you have any new ideas for the agenda, so let's close the agenda and move on. I'll put this to a vote and vote of course on this. Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18153	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I appreciate the initiative of the chairman of the Council of Ministers and this is a small change in previous behaviour, when there were really huge political and other changes in the country and when we, as parliamentarians, asked for the Council of Ministers to address and it did not always come to that understanding. So I appreciate and welcome the initiative of the Council of Ministers, to address Parliament, about such a delicate political situation that has culminated in the last few days, and I think it is a good practice and we can now gain business wisdom in one way or another, formulate the agenda as it pleases anyone, but I don't mind that Mr. Chairman is addressing us according to the agenda of the Council of Ministers in relation to the situation in BiH, because whatever we call it, a practical debate will be held on the exact same thing that is perfectly clear to all of us. In order not to be inconclusive after that, Mr. Chairman, I am knowing what's going on here, and invited to what's been going on in the last few days, I would like to suggest but to make it clear to me first on business, if I could, at that point in the agenda, as you have now called it, discuss the next thing. Namely, the chairman of the Council of Ministers informed us a few days ago that it was his idea to organise early elections. Now, my question is, I think we should talk about it at Parliament. If we're going to be able to discuss this point on the agenda, then I'm going to discuss my next discussion, my proposal to change the agenda, I'm withdrawing. 6 namely, what I want to say, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to propose for today's agenda item, a agenda item called an initiative to amend the electoral law defining the procedure for organising early elections. We have as SDP a prepared package of amendments and additions to the electoral law that defines the launch of early elections. Namely, the chairman has initiated a story about early elections knowing that the existing law makes it impossible, thus bringing the whole public into a rather unnecessary delusion. So, if the chairman, on this agenda point, I can also talk about amending the Election Law and launching amendments to the Election Law in the function of creating legal and any other assumptions, by defining the procedure that will allow early elections tomorrow. Then I am withdrawing the draft agenda, which, if you do not accept that such an initiative is as a proposal for a conclusion on what the chairman of the Council of Ministers is going to say, I would run for the agenda point in that case, under the name of an initiative to amend the electoral law defining the procedure for organising early elections. That Parliament undertakes to make the next five to seven days come out with an appropriate legal package that defines the procedure. If not, we, as the SDP, will also launch the procedure for amending the Election Law in order to allow early elections, within 7 days. So I'd just like to ask you, before the vote, to tell me if there is any need to give you this item of the agenda or on this subject I can speak to when the chairman speaks to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18154	Thank you. Obviously, I see you're making progress and this is a step in relation to practice so far. You started to ask what could and how it would be in the procedure and I thank you for that. It's a method we need to spend more and more of our lives here in Parliament. I thank you again once again, Mr. Lagumdžija for that. Of course you're right, I've never stopped you from saying what you think you should say, I think it's democratic. As far as your initiatives are concerned, you can put it in parliamentary without debate at the Paralment, which you know is how, for the amendments to the law, you have done so many times. I can't give you an answer to the question right now because I'm not the one who makes the decision about it. That's what Dom's decision is about. When today, if a debate is opened regarding the information of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which all possible conclusions are made, the House will probably plead, you will say what you have to say. I will not be able to prevent or prevent you from presenting any initiative, and that may be the answer to this question of yours, and you decide whether to insist on a special agenda after this, or you will fit into this existing agenda. Right away, yeah. Well, maybe that's the best thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18155	Mr. Chairman, it's good to open communication. It's time, we've been here almost three years. So, I'll provide you with a proposal on the agenda, as I formulated. If this proposal goes through that you gave the chairman to address us, 7 then this proposal I withdraw, but since I don't know what it will look like, I'm giving it to you so you don't procedurally explain to me that I couldn't, if I had passed the train. That's one thing. And another thing, let's get this straight, Mr. Chairman. It's perfectly clear to me and I didn't want to open that discussion right now. It is perfectly clear to me that we can launch amendments and comply with the Law on Elections, the Election Law. However, I would like here as serious people to be something that is a matter of consensus in this House, not an SDP initiative. I said that within 7 days, we will come up with a concrete initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for amendments and amendments to the law unless a joint rational proposal is reached today on how to make it better for this Parliament, so that the parties do not race who first thought of it. So, I just want to make a good political climate here and propose to Parliament that it be Parliament's position and that the Council of Ministers and even the President of the Council of Ministers send us to the parliamentary procedure of amending the laws that will allow early elections. Here's one for you. Is something going to happen in front of the Secretariat?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18156	We're sitting down.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18157	I have to ask that too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18158	It's yours to write and sit and everything else will be settled, don't worry about anything else, this is an orderly Parliament, please don't. Mr. Raguž has his word, please. Mr. Raguž is the vice president, asked for Mr. Gligorić not to be angry, he will be born next.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18159	Okay. I say hello to everyone. As far as this debate is concerned, I think today is a good time to have a debate on the state of the Council of Ministers and get a report from the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And of course, as part of that, let's discuss what's important, about Mr. Terzić's exposure. As for Mr Lagumdžija's initiative, I think that this parallel should once be used by the space we have opened through the establishment of a Joint Commission between the Council of Ministers and Parliament that has begun to work on amendments to the Election Law. It's our post-op commitment and it's ongoing. So it's started to work, and here's the opportunity for this issue to be included in that package of amendments and that it's really complete, not that we take the partial question of the issue to the Election Law as one of the most significant fundamental acts, legal acts in the country. This is my suggestion, Mr Lagumdžija, and as regards the political assessment that you are, of course, always as one skilled and responsible politician and here today, I can say now that it is not enough just to talk about the early elections and the saturation of reforms but about 8 restrictions in this country that are not only through the readiness of political forces, I am now talking about another political position, but also about other more serious problems in this country, so that we open it all together as responsible people. So today we are not exhausting ourselves with an initiative to change the electoral law, but to put it in this joint activity that we are conducting and to open a debate on important issues through the Prime Minister's presentation. And that's how we got rid of each other, and we're serious.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18160	I think we understand each other. We have one like this, the answer to the replica, we have one false allegation, we have a discussion. In order of someone, I think this, trying to fix the wrong quote, would be the first in line, so Mr. Nikola Špirić, the first deputy chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18161	Ladies and gentlemen, I have no, of course, misunderstandings with Mr. Raguž, but let's be clear, then, to be public and citizens. My colleague Lagumdžija is absolutely right. We must put our mandates to the citizens, all of us, to be checked out. I think the election initiative has come from the ruling Council of Ministers. Did he joke, did he mean to do it? I don't know what, but I think it's a perfectly legal initiative from Mr. Lagumdžija to get the law ready for that possibility. Regular amendments to the electoral law, regular changes are a direct response, and we from the parliamentary majority will not hold extraordinary elections. Why should we, when we're comfortable. The people of the churches and we rule. Now, bajrum, I will support Mr Lagumdžija and the party's initiative, was the special point and was part of the debate between Adnan Terzić, it doesn't matter, Mr Lagumdžija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18162	Now, Mr. Špirić, this wasn't an adjustment to the wrong quote. Now the corrections are about to begin as far as I can see. I'm asking you to get serious, let's go in with
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18163	I'll do this briefly and seriously, since Mr. Špirić is
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18164	Just one moment to allow me to give the word formally, at least. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. This is now the answer to an attempt to correct the wrong quote, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18165	Okay, thank you, Mr. Džaferović. So, since Mr Špirić mentioned me, and related to preventing the possibility of organising early elections, I claim that I have not brought any words into question the possibility of early elections and I don't know why he referred to me. And please, here's for correctness, so I have to intervene. So I have to intervene, an initiative for early elections, I said personally, that I expect Prime Minister Terzić to explain it and discuss it. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18166	Thank you very much. We've got Mr. Beriz Belkić, you'll get the word Mr. Lagumdžija, there's Mr. Novaković, he's got Sead Avdić, we've opened up. You disobeyed me and you have what you have. I'm not responsible for this. To tell you the truth, I've asked you to put the agenda in place, to accept the position of the College, and to have a debate, all of what you're talking about could have been within the agenda. You didn't listen to me. Mr. Belkić, I apologize to you for standing up, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18167	I've got a replica and I'm asking the MPs to return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18168	Thank you, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18169	We establish the agenda, we all know, those who speak do not underestimate the other messengers. We know very well what is happening in Parliament. So we know that in the course of the amendments and the additions to the Electoral Law, we know that all MPs are already asked to intervene with suggestions and so on. And we don't mind if someone doesn't know, so let them repeat it. But I'm asking you to get back to the agenda. Mr. Špirić, Mr. Lagumdžija and everyone else in the course of Mr. Adnan Terzić's report, please talk about everything. Don't force us, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18170	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, please, dear colleagues and colleagues, please, please, all of this can be the subject of a serious debate within the agenda table proposed by the College. Please, listen to me, respect this, break up the debate, we'll just outsmart and open up the replicas, you'll replicate each other, fix the wrong allegations, and I'll break down here to sort it out and define it when it's what. Please, I ask you to accept this and vote, that the second item of the agenda be, Mr. Lagumdžija, listen to me and you. Answer him later when the debate begins. Please, what are my business opportunities? Can I stop this? Can I stop this? Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, I can't end this, but I would very much like to interrupt this. I'm asking all my colleagues who care about what I'm talking about right now to appreciate this. Those who think they should keep talking, I'll give them my word, I can't take my word. Gopodine Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18171	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18172	I'm sorry, Mr. Novaković, you have your word immediately after Mr. Lagumdžija, and I've led with him now to the controversy of this direct one, and you're next in line. Mr. Lagumdžija, I beg you, Mr. Novaković, before you, I will give that advantage, you will not give Mr. Lagumdžija, you will, when you are in another position, now I am giving priority. Have a seat. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please. When you give priority, then you give it away, now I give it while I'm here and please respect it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really have no intention of having a debate within the initiative. That is why I believe that I am also replicating Mr Špirić's discussion which has already prejudged the way of voting, which really does not stand, and I would pray that he has in this way opened the debate on this agenda point. So, according to me and this, you take this as my attempt to help, Mr. Lagumdžija has a legitimate initiative to put an end to the agenda, I ask him to suggest it, we'll get to the bottom of it. What will be discussed within the framework and whether or not Mr. Terzić's address will be seen. After all, we can't prejudge the solution before we know if there's going to be any turning. So, here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija, suggest a point, and I'll be very happy to make a statement about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18174	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija, replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18175	Is it me now? I did. Eh, thank you. I thank you once again, Mr. Chairman, it's a good thing you finally gave me no special answer to Mr. Raguž, Belkić and Novaković. I don't have to berize, but I will. Here, yes very much, Martin is my colleague, here whether knowingly or unconsciously tried to make a mistake in what I suggested. I know perfectly well Mr. Raguž and Mr. Belkić that there is one more serious project to amend the election law. It is perfectly clear to me that this, amendments to the electoral law to date from 3 years ago, when we took over from the Council of Europe post-election conditions in which we said we would amend the Election Law. And three full years we haven't done that. And, now, I'm well aware that's what I'm doing right now. However, what I asked for is with full awareness of the work that is going on, because the chairman of the Council of Ministers has deceived the public by asking for early elections and he knows or is unfortunately not aware, however, he does not know when the bigger problem, which of these two cases is that there are no early elections under the existing Election Law. And he opened up a public debate here about early elections and the Election Law doesn't know that, the way he presents it to the public. And that is why I think it is necessary to take both the chairperson and the Council of Ministers and myself seriously, if we are not going to be able to even want a chance, and that is to open up an emergency 11 procedure like any normal country, a legislative possibility that early elections can be made. Whether they're done or not, that's a completely different question. And that's why, if Mr. Novaković hadn't left, I'd be confused, regardless of what the chairman is going to do, whether he's going to talk to us or not, then I'd ask you to put that point that I've profiled to you, to put it on the agenda table, and when he's chairman of the Council of Ministers, I'll address him if he talks again, on this subject, regardless of the agenda point we're going to have or not.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18176	So I would pray, colleagues, that we don't discuss any further, that we move on to a plea. Can you accept, I say again, I appeal to you, please that if you can, I would ask you to move to a plea if you can accept what I'm talking about right now. We're done, so we don't open any more replicas. Mrs. Palavrić, please. Come on, tell me what you have to say, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18177	Thank you very much, finally. I want to replicate Mr. Lagumdžija on, I'll wait until he's done. I want to rephrase to you, Mr. Lagumdžija, what you said. As a post-accession commitment to the Council of Europe, the accession to the Council of Europe was made in April 2002. You represented the head of government in this country, until December of that same year, you remember the actions of December. So you could have changed that election law back then. But what's basic, I want to ask you, come on, don't really look at us, to accept that you don't terrorize us, but you're making fools of us. You're making this parliament a circus, as long as the cameras are here. When the cameras leave, you go too. Stay after the cameras and let's talk seriously about the Electoral Law and everything it takes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18178	So, three years ago, Mr. Chairman, it is well known to the public and to you, that one of the post-war conditions was that, however, it is known to everyone sitting here that this condition should not have been implemented in the time of the 4 months until then. And that's the commitment that this ruling structure has made and it's already on the train for 2.5 years almost 3. And the fact that I'm trying to make a fool out of you doesn't make me think of it. You're what you are, I can't help you or help you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18179	Thank you very much. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18180	Here, uh, I'm glad to chair that earlier parliamentary minority word than I did, even though I've asked for it before. So that is proof that this parliament is democratic and respects the parliamentary minority. I will no longer call them opposition but a parliamentary minority. Mr. Lagumdžija called several times and he had a lot of inaccuracies, and I don't know if I'm going to catch all 12 of them. But one of the wrong ones is this last one, that we haven't, we have already changed the Electoral Law since this parliamentary majority is in this House. You guys check it out, and you'll see it's true. So, we have amended the Election Law and we will change it once more, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and any MP here does not need to know the Electoral Law. That's what the Electoral Commission needs to know. And if Mr. Terzić didn't even know the Electoral Law when he presented some facts, this one can't at all, it can't be a difficult circumstance for him. And if he's serious and what he means seriously, let's leave it to him. Don't question this, Mr. Terzić. I also don't want to be his lawyer. This includes representatives of the Council of Ministers. So, he will probably give them some guidance on how it will work, give us maybe Parliament or not, the Electoral Commission will also look to make some technical changes that bothered the Electoral Commission in conduct and prepare the elections and I see no problem. I don't even see this, or your interest in rushing those early choices. I can't see him. I don't see him, you said before every election we'd see, so we don't see anything. And I, I have no reason to believe you because before every election you said, well, it's over now, so it's not over. I don't see any serious reason for you to do this, but, of course, as many times as you have so far, you have the right to propose an election law quite new, not just that one amendment and ask for it to go according to Article 104 of the article 105 or in the regular procedure. So no one's slowing it down, but don't give the wrong information here. I've listed these here, if I had a stenogram, I'd probably count them three more times this far.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18181	...asked the services to inform the chairman of the Council of Ministers that he would come here to this hall, so we wouldn't have to take a break later, let the services do that, to ask the chairman to come. And the next one came forward, Mr. Tihomir Gligori, a discussion, please, a proposal actually.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Before that, a few introductory sentences. Since we are the legislative body that makes the laws and rules by which we have to or which obliges us and the citizens, I think that in this procedure we still need to clarify something a little bit. I agree with what Mr. Novaković said. Since we have received documents here on the table, where on behalf of Mr. Terzić, the head of the office is speaking to us, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of our home, to be classified as a part of the agenda. Since apparently Mr. terzic has people around him who function either illegally or out of ignorance, we heard this from Mr. Lagumdžija and Zorić that he knows, doesn't know, etc. This is a classic ignorance of procedure and cannot chair the Council of Ministers to seek a point of the agenda because it is defined by Rule 139 e) of the Rules of Procedure of this House and it is ignorance or ignorance, because it is not, I am talking about the other, your discussion comes in favor when you say that he does not know, but at the Election Law and I am raising to his ignorance, general ignorance. 13 So, in this case, the chairman does not represent the collective body, the Council of Ministers, that they have not reached a conclusion or a decision to be a part of the agenda, but it is his personal will and cannot, and we need to clear the dilemma that he can't do so. I respect the procedure and that, the College and I respect your proposal, Mr. Chairman, to do so by the College, but don't amnest Mr. Terzić here out of ignorance because he's out in public and he's looking for ways to address Parliament, he's acting as a Democrats for everything he's done, and you're letting him stay silent. I also have an understanding for the discussion of Professor Špirić, but we must clearly say here that the Paralment or one of us or the College can put that item on the agenda, we will vote on it, but it is not Mr Terzić's initiative, but our will, our decision. The decision by this parliament to come and to settle accounts for the crisis created by the Council of Ministers. Just under that condition, it should be clear and precise and allow Mr. Terzić to speak. So, please, this is either the guilty or the legal dribbles or the democratic locks, and whatever you want to call them, but essentially this must be Parliament's will and that the executive power must understand, that it lays down accounts for this parliament that elected it. And you can't raise Mr. Terzić above this parliament because the way he described it, humiliating this parliament, with the head of the office, you don't even know who, there's more offices and offices. That way, even if he had signed it, it would have been the right thing to do. And, therefore, I propose that we make a statement about the College's proposal, not Mr. Terzić, that we do not replace the thesis and I am glad in the end that I can notice that the Council of Ministers or here most of the people are present, given that it does not work there, then Parliament is also good for them, by the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18183	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Beriz Belić, briefly. Here you go, Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18184	I turned to the faces for a moment and asked to direct the debate on the agenda towards the debate on the agenda. Here you see, let's say now the situation, I would ask you to look at the stenograms of our sessions, look at the content of the debate on the agenda, and see how much time we spend. And we're really going to face facts that are completely irrational and inefficient. Let's just say, Mr. Gligorić, if you followed the session, it's not a proposal to include the Committee of Ministers in the agenda, it's from the College. That's what the chairman said. We're wasting our time, please. Here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18185	Please, now I'm going to move on, I can't do that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18186	I'm not arguing. We're making a statement on the agenda. I'm asking you about the agenda, so discuss within the agenda we'll discuss whatever you want. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18187	Thank you, sir, please, Mr. Gligorić you can't do that. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. I'm closing the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Do you have any new suggestions? New suggestions, please. He'll get his word. Wait, let's see who answered here first. Andrić, Mr. Kunić, wait a minute. Mr. Andrić, please. I'm told Mr. Andrić called before you did. I have this information from two sources, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really, I checked in a long time ago and through this technique and hand, the secretary registered my application. I propose that point 4 of the request of Representative Momčilo Novaković, to consider the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education under the hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 104, we take off today's agenda because the proposal for a law on higher education that we have had has not completed its adoption procedure. As far as we know, this law has been withdrawn from the vital national interest, so the procedure has been stopped, the motion has been sent to the Constitutional Court, the Court of Justice, as far as we know, has been manifested about this law and we can only ask for it, that the Council of Ministers respects the Court's decision under this law and only after the first law is completed can the new law be entered into the parliamentary procedure. So I don't think you can find this as a agenda point today, because it's contrary to our rules of procedure. We can't have two laws the same, at the same time in the parliamentary procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18189	Thank you very much. Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18190	The Honorable Chairman, so I suggested to the College quite a long time ago to arrange for the creation of conditions for the transfer of our sessions. So, for transferring the entire session, not the beginning of the session. If so, that is Parliament's conclusion. If you look, then there are very aggressive discussions of individuals at each session at the beginning, while the cameramen are here. As they shoot and then take a break, you always see the same people standing in front of the cameras. I think, if we want to create a serious Parliament and I think that many here want to create it, we need to seriously think about it. The public service is in office of this parliament and must begin to carry the sessions from the beginning to the end and not only come to a start to point out, express their vanity and the cameramen go away and there are no more discussions. Please, let the College take action in this regard. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18191	Thank you. We can only briefly Mr. Potočnik, Mladen has appeared for a long time, so Mr. Sead Avdić and then it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18192	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this practice of determining the agenda, which lasts from an hour to two hours, I suggest that it be limited to 15 minutes, because this way and this kind of work that we have, the efficiency of this work is the ultimate irresponsibility of us towards the man BiH. And I suggest that 15 minutes be just for the agenda debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18193	I support that, right now, to know what I'm talking about, all the time I've been calling for the application of what you're talking about, but that's a matter of the Rules of Procedure and this committee following the Rules of Procedure let, if it considers it to be an integral part of the Rules of Procedure itself, I also don't think that the agenda should be fixed for more than 15 minutes, and this is a good idea for me. Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18194	Respect for the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen MPs and respected members of the Council of Ministers. We don't need to further elaborate and dramatize the situation, we know it well, and in this context, it's really very clear. Prejudged from the aspect of the next election results is also a missed political investment, which means I remind you, I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to address and give us information on the level and problems related to police reform in BiH. At that time, it was said that certain parties were not informed enough and that it remains for one of the next sessions, which means, I ask that Mr. Prime Minister-President of the Council of Ministers accept this issue and, as a whole, to present the situation in the executive government, i.e. in the Council of Ministers of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18195	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. You heard the College's proposal that the second item of the agenda be the Information of the BiH Council of Ministers' Chairman on the state of the Council of Ministers. She will inevitably touch all other questions. So I suggest we make a statement about this proposal to the College. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 30 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 30 for, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The second item of the agenda, Information from the BiH Council of Ministers on the state of the Council of Ministers 16 We have the following proposal by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija, to include an initiative to amend the electoral law as a special item of the agenda to define the procedure for organising early elections. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 18 against, 4 abstentions, no general parliamentary support. This isn't a suggestion. - You'll get it, don't ever ask me again, please while I'm sitting here because 100 times I'm saying you can always take the list whenever you want, go ahead. You're welcome to take the list, done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18196	....now I tell you in a magnetogram, every time my proposal is put to the vote, I ask for a listing, and for every other proposal I want a listing, as an MP, and I will not ask you, from now on, until the end of my term of office of the voting document because there was not once that we expressed our suspicion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18197	At the request of Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's MPs, I ask that services whenever Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija asks for a listing, delivery of voting lists, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, and to take it off the agenda here. Please do. Let's move on, please, Mr. Filip Andrić has asked that item 4 be removed from the agenda, it is the Law on Higher Education, as proposed by Mr. Novaković. We can't take it down by the Rules of Procedure, it's a statement of procedure. The House should make a decision when it comes to the procedure and in a further way, the decision-making procedure. And so these were suggestions about, of course, when we vote. And I declare the agenda of the 58th session. It's, uh, one. Record of the 57th session, 2. Information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the state of the BiH Council of Ministers, 3. MPs' questions and answers, 4. Request from the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a framework law on higher education, procedure under Article 104, 6. Request of Member Momčilo Novaković to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105, 7. Request by the Council of Ministers for examination of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on an emergency procedure pursuant to Article 105. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina railways (first reading), 17 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH – Proposers of Parliaments Raguž, Ćeman and Bešlagić (first reading), 10. Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, 11. Information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004, 12. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's external debt situation with 31.12.2004, 13. Proposal for a conclusion by the Commission on human rights immigration, refugees and asylum on the results of resolving the performances of the Association of Decertified Officers of the Federation of BH and the Association of Decertified Officers of Republika Srpska, 14. SDP MEPs' initiative on the establishment of the Committee or the Commission for the adoption of the text of the BiH State Anthem, 15. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission to reach an agreement on the identical text (a) of the Law on Convergence, (b) the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, 16. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the establishment of the Office for War Crimes and the Department for Organized Crimes, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Society of BiH, (b) The Treaty on Loan (Regional Road Development Programme) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (c) Note of the Agreement between the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya and the Croatian Republic of Croatia, (f) The Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Exchange of Real Estates and the Republic of Croatia, (c) Note of the Agreement between the Central Bank of Libya and the Republic of Croatia on the link between the Croatian Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Republic of Croatia, (f) The Protocol between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic Appointment of discharge of members of the House Commissions and 18. Proposal for a conclusion on the procedure for the appointment of three members of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the first point of the agenda that is, Ad.1. I'm opening a hearing from the 57th session. Anybody want to talk about the record? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote on the minutes. Vote now. 31 for, no problem, no abstention, enough entity majority. I find that we have completed the first item of the agenda, we have adopted the minutes of the 57th session. Moving to the second point of the agenda that's, Ad.1. Information from the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Adnan Terzić on the state of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18198	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, I asked the College yesterday to put on the agenda a point of information on the state of play in the Council of Ministers. Since I assumed that, as is the custom in this House of Representatives, one of the MPs would ask for such information. I think it's normal for you to be familiar with everything that's going on this way and through this kind of communication. I made the decision yesterday and accepted Mr Ivanić's resignation, which he submitted on 18.12. last year and which he never withdrew. Why? Because of his behaviour when it comes to the selection of SIP deputy directors and assistants, the basic political principle that I have been holding in the last 2.5 years has been violated, and which this council of ministers has generally managed to stick to with a little less or little more problems. And that's that as long as we have our mandates, the High Representative doesn't make decisions for us. I think it is a key principle that should be led by all BiH politicians who accept to perform executive duties. To the truth, the High Representative made a few decisions during our term of office but these were decisions on the express request of three prime ministers, so I, the Prime Minister of the Federation and the RS prime minister, because certain laws were to be amended and the procedures were long enough and we had no time to wait and then we asked him to do it for us. 19 When it comes to the appointment of the director of the SIP, you all know that two years ago, members of the Bureau together with Minister Ivanić in Banja Luka made a schedule of three important functions, Ministry of Defence, OSA and SIP. And those three functions were shared among the three peoples, so the defence ministry belonged to representatives of the Serb people, the OSA to the Bosniak and the SIP to the Croatian. We have under the law implemented all possible procedures and the Minister of Security is taking into account this political agreement, so in which neither the Minister of Security nor I participated, he proposed to the Council of Ministers the necessary appointments. It was April 22nd because on April 23rd, he set a legal deadline for the duties performed by Mr Nović until the end of the procedure under the Council of Ministers' Decision and later the High Representative. Mr. Ivanić voted against such a decision with a request to change, in fact, that the Council of Ministers amend a political agreement made by the presidency and that Mr. Nović is appointed director of the SIP. Understanding such demands, I, as chairman, also opened the space and left almost 2 months to Mr Ivanić to try to change the political agreement with the presidency and to ensure that Mr Nović was proposed by the security minister. Minister Ivanić did not do so, and we came in a position when it became evident that the Council of Ministers could not execute the appointment, and when, in principle, the Council of Ministers cannot satisfy what is its legal and constitutional jurisdiction. It was impossible to maintain an ambience in which no one under the law could run the SIP for two months, but it was a former performer of duty, let's say by looking through both BiH and international community authorities. I was therefore forced to ask the High Representative to carry out the appointment, to use his bona fide powers and to make an apparent stalemate in that part thanks to his bona fide powers. But now the question is, who's responsible for it and the question is, what happens after that appointment? I want to say precisely and openly that if the High Representative had made the appointment of Mr Lukač, I would have again accepted Mr Ivanić's resignation. Why? Because I can't allow myself to be the chairman of a council of ministers where my associates won't take responsibility and wait for the High Representative to do the job for us. If we had acted this way in the last 2.5 years, none of these reforms and laws could be implemented nor BiH would be at the threshold of obtaining consent to start negotiations on signing a Stabilisation and Association Treaty. The key element of the feasibility study was that BiH authorities must take responsibility and that BiH authorities must make decisions rather than the High Representative. So, I have to admit, since December of last year, after the whole situation created by the decisions of the High Representative and the US Embassy and since Mr Ivanić resigned, we have seen a decline in the Council of Ministers' activities. Finally, to insisting on parliamentary majority parties, Minister Ivanić remained working at the Council of Ministers but surely his activity was reduced to the activity of politicians who do not have any obligation, as his party does not participate in the RS government and has the need to control the processes and paces of the Council of Ministers. I as chairman simply couldn't allow it anymore, I don't want to take responsibility for what some of my associates, and especially my deputy, are not ready to accept the fact that we are the ones who need to lead this country. I've accepted his resignation and I don't think it should in principle cause any big debate in Parliament. I know it may be strange and perhaps for the first time in BiH that 20 have happened to have one chairman discharge the duties of someone who does not belong to his party and his people, but I want to say clearly and clearly that this has been done solely for principle reasons because I cannot allow blockades and what is worst I cannot take responsibility for these blockades. For months, I have been asked a question about the functioning of the Council of Ministers whether I will resign. Finally, when I add it all together, why would I who works 12 hours a day, who has never stopped in any of the projects the process, which for 2.5 years has been trying to reconcile our political needs, but also our political problems that we have here, fears, etc. Why should I resign? And I decided that whoever was responsible for the Council of Ministers could not appoint a director of such an important institution, a sanctioner. I say openly, I have not negotiated with either the international community or the political entities in BiH. Mr Ivanić was true, all the time saying that representatives, individual representatives of the international community, were asking him not to vote on the proposed solution. And now we'll see. I suppose those who persuaded him, if they persuaded him, would stand behind him now, but we'll see from the international community to whom it suits the Council of Ministers not to make a decision but to wait and hide behind the High Representative. I suppose this move will probably make the RS a lot more of a reaction than the Federation, but I want to assure you that my move wasn't absolutely politically motivated. My move was to make a presidential move that just couldn't allow us to have a relationship anymore. In this case, Mr Ivanic, who comes from the RS, who is accepted as his resignation, is the only reason he is. So, we currently have in the Council of Ministers several projects standing by because let's say, literally stopped by Mr Ivanic, it's, say, the Lising Act, which is very important for the economy of this country. In the last two months, we have had a major problem with agreeing on a very important document such as the EU Partnership Programme by 2007, where we have clearly and precisely defined the obligations and this document after 2.5 months of withdrawal, we have finally managed to agree on the coordination for economic development and it will be presented to you. These are all things that slow us down on our European path. Brussels is carefully looking not only at what the government is doing but what, as the public also refers to Europe, towards our European path, and I simply think the time has come for those who want to obstruct and want to slow down our European path, to leave the political stage as managers. I suppose the biggest question at this point is what next? I think that as MPs, you should leave me time to see with political entities from the RS in what way we can fill the post of foreign minister and continue to work. I believe that we still have the capacity, and I believe that we still have a clear awareness that we are very close to one great result and that we simply resolutely accept our functions and obligations that carry these functions, we can move on. I must admit that perhaps it can be expected that, because of all this, a debate about the Council of Ministers' trust is being drawn. I'm ready for that debate, too. I am also prepared to have this House vote not to trust this council of ministers and myself, but once again, I would like to convince you that this was a matter of principle and that none of me can expect the High Representative to make decisions for us without handling certain sanctions. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18199	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, for the information submitted. So this was information, Mr. Potočnik Mladen came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18200	Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers for 6 months waiting and accepting resignation, that is outrageous. It's ineffectiveness, irresponsibility, not respect for this country and not understanding what we need to do. Also in the phase of handing out chairs you had the complexity. Now you don't even have the complexity to share a chair. Understand already once that the Bošnjak is equal to Hrvat, Srbin and others and that the state has people to guide and care about. This isn't about the last six months, this is about three years. And that's what you're asking after three years of asking whether this council of ministers should have support or not. Now you're talking to us. When we asked you to address us, to explain your vision of how to get this country out of this state where it is, then we could hardly get you here. This is simply irresponsible from the Council of Ministers and from you and Ivanic and everyone else sitting there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18201	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić. Let Mrs. Đurković prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Chairman of Terzić, I saw your oral address both as sad and sad, because you talked about it or because of a staff policy that you did not solve that is the basic reason for the move you made towards the foreign minister. At the same time, you have confessed before this parliament, before the means of information as Professor Kunić says, while they are still there, that the Institute of Competition is a simple farce. It is known that and who is elected from politics when elections are won and what is the Law on Administrative or State Service or other services and that professionals should be accepted and you have admitted that the competition means nothing to you, that the criteria prescribed there are not valid in front of the Bahate policy, a policy that is reversible in the sense that the more it gets a chair and that with the ultimate goal of controlling the intelligence and security structure, as unfortunately, the Party of Democratic Action has in all areas in BiH. You have admitted this sad truth regrettable, that it is more important for you to have any personnel solution of even boldness to admit it publicly, that you have arranged and arranged it. Then why the competition? Who are you kidding? Who are you cheating on in this country? What does the competition mean then? If so, it must be what Mr. Potočnik was saying, that and that. I would really like you to finally be after so many long years, as you lead the Council of Ministers, and you know that I told you well-meaningly, that it's not for you, that you answer some questions. I said something about you, your cabinet, when you spoke to us and when you signed the head of the office in the sense that you might have a team that advises you with ignorance, illegality, so you showed it 22 and through the act you sent us today to classify your information as chairman, which of course you have no right to do according to the Rules of Procedure. Next, you have to say, do you know or do you not know, because the executive and legislative authorities operate under rules and procedures. Next, if we're going to this constitutional and legal terminology, if we're going to respect the Constitution and the law, we need to distinguish what the resignation is, what the shift is, what the resolution is in the final. The resignation that has been in particular by Mr Ivanić, who has been dating for 7 months, is something that cannot be the reason for his resolution. It's a matter of principle. You can be angry with him, to human policy, to all other things, you can, but I'm speaking with legal logic now and based on the Constitution and the facts. You can't even change it, so you've escaped to this other extreme, to withdraw means, this resignation is the reason for its resolution, but it's again talking about you, so you're misusing, an institute of resignations prescribed as a means to blackmail or to tend when you as an individual evaluate it to deal with people, perhaps because of the opposite professional opinion in the Council of Ministers. That really speaks of you, and I'd like you to answer me if you had such intentions, because these are simply facts. You know that under the Council of Ministers and Ministries Act, if you're getting into it, and your resignation is no argument, you have to go to replace it, then it's a complex problem, it says there. Because both homes, both predstavnički houses and the House of Nations must be declared, so that a minister cannot be easily replaced. The minister is a big deal in one country. And of course, when we choose you, we know the procedure, it all ends in this home. But when you change, we go to another home to get the problem together, get serious, get everybody responsible, so that the only way to solve it is to solve it. Speaking of which, I'd like you to answer my question, have you already appointed any deputies to continue their operational duties? Did you thus disrupt the national here, the disturbance within the Council of Ministers, since the Council of Ministers is a policy and there is an electoral will of citizens when, when people come to the head of the country, ministers come and go, when they lose power. They can, unlike Sredoje Nović, have to be a professional, there can be no politics. Have you now violated this national balance since it is clearly stated in the Council of Ministers under the Law on Council of Ministers and Ministrys, in which way you can vote within the Council of Ministers and since you do not have at least 3 ministers, you have come to the problem. This problem that is for you, we here from the opposition point to it, but it's not worth it, nobody's listening to it in this country. You've got a hell of a machine and you've got everything in front of you. But are you, in this way, personally because you bear the greatest responsibility, actually the generator of the crisis and you transfer the skillful responsibility to the minister of one, come on, Minister Dokić has some other situation, but which also in this context, when we look at it, is the problem of functioning the Council of Minsitarians and does he have your responsibility in all of this? Because if you say so and you say here somewhere that you are not politically motivated, and that it was your professional job to replace Minister Ivanić. I ask you and it would be fair to answer because relationships rest on both professional and human relationships, is there a professional human relationship there? I heard Mr. Ivanić's statement that at 2:15 he grew up from you, I was with the means of information and I saw that you received Mr. Berens together I think, and together you stand side by side while there is a human logic, that at least there was a need to say anything to that man, at least in a hint. You didn't have to say until the end, not to find out from the means of notifying that your deputy has been removed. He's your deputy. The minister's a big deal, assistant, deputy minister. And you didn't have the courage to say to your 23 closest associate I want to relieve you for that and that. I'd tell him that. Is this really the cowardice that Minister Ivanic was talking about? I agree with him in this case. Otherwise I agree with him on a lot of things I don't agree with. All this says if you were dishonest, you as a deputy and first man, you within a small collective body, are you honest with the citizens, according to the institutions, are you speaking in this way about your professional code, and the character of how it is done in that council of ministers if everything can be brought down in 5 minutes or after one decision, that he was elected to the competition by the best professional and which is the worst confirmed by OHR, which shows that Ivanić, although he had his own initiatives or was principled in that sense, was right. And to finish, you talk a lot and you call the OHR. How difficult it was for you to address OHR. Here in this case, let them handle it. I would have supported you as a man and as a professional and an MP, if you had asked for it constantly and persistently. However, the laws that come here alone in Parliament have told you to pass the executive power, not to be read there, to be well translated from English and you yourself have admitted that you are not leaving the OHR and that in this way OHR is running a practical executive power in this country, and that you have personally been only good cooperative, that I do not use the harsh word associate, that anything and not just what hurt you, when it comes to the appointment of Mr Nović. I would love to and support you if you or all of us would take on these powers together and say as serious and responsible people for the fate of this country and take it into our own hands, but I don't think you're getting up to do it the way you yourself have orally explained and shown your impotence. In this way, I believe that you are a crisis generator in the Council of Ministers, and that you cannot get out of this crisis and that for who knows what time you deceived the public when you said you wanted an emergency election because the early elections can solve problems and give two reasons not to waste time, whether or not you were honest then because you know that there is no opportunity in the existing law to do so, but you need to change and supplement the law. I would like you to make your full contribution in this direction, and together with these citizens, to come up with such an initiative and to make such a working conclusion in this House that will speed up this procedure of amending and supplementing the Election Law. And of course, I'd like to say in all this, that the political parties from the RS have made it perfectly clear whether they spoke to you in the meantime, so you've had the courage to address yourself today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18203	Thank you. All I'd ask is for the discussions to be shorter. I think you can tell in a much shorter time what you're thinking. Chairman, Terzić asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18204	So, as usual, it is very difficult to answer all the questions that, in the single address, MP Gligorić can ask this, can be asked. That's why I came out right away to answer him. 24 So, first of all, if we're talking about the national balance, Mr Gligorić, at the Council of Ministers, he's long been broken. And you never asked how it could have been damaged. It has been marred by the situation and the rest of the peoples, they have no fear of having 4 Serbian-led ministers, 2 Bosniak-run ministers and 3 Croatian-led ministers, with a chairman, so 3,3.4. I can imagine what would have happened in this country and what kind of activity you would have started if Bog had not given it to 4 Bošnjak and three Srbin. So it's not a big problem for us, and for me as chairman, it was absolutely no problem for me to run the Council of Ministers where we don't have national equality like the Constitution and the law said. It is true that by leaving Minister Dokić his post is assumed by the deputy who is Bošnjak. It is true that by accepting Mr Ivanić's resignation, his post is taken by a secretary who is also Bošnjak because we do not have a deputy minister. So, in these few days, we're going to have a broken balance, but the akonam balance didn't bother us when we had more representatives of the Serb people, and I don't see why it would bother us now. So we have a legal obligation to attend the Council of Ministers' meetings two from every nation. A Council of Ministers meeting cannot be started. And I wouldn't be looking in those number ministers of any conspiracy theory. I haven't negotiated with political entities and I say responsibly, I haven't negotiated with RS political entities to make this move, nor do I have the consent of anyone. I did this move, although it seems amazing to you, just because I couldn't lead the Council of Ministers without breaking the basic principle, and my basic principle from beginning to end was that we had to make decisions, not the High Representative. And not to make me look like a hero, but to our children. The practice of going to the High Representative and praying for decisions is the practice of uninventional people. I'm not uninventive. I am ready every reform project history and lead to the end and I participate and answer for it. I think the rest of what you've been saying belongs to some categories that I don't owe as chair to explain, but I would also ask you not to call and call on RS political entities to go your way in trying to question whether the interests of the Serbian people are at stake or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18205	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Jelina Đurković. Let Jelina be prepared, excuse me, and let Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18206	Ladies and gentlemen, here's the opportunity for us to hear Mr. Chairman's exhibit, to deal with a very principled man. His main principle as he said, is that we make decisions, not someone from the OHR. So that's what 2.5 years from now should have been adorned by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers. However, I ask this, if Mr. Chairman is so principled, why in the decision of the High Representative in which he says he is forming the Defence Reform Commission is the first sentence, taking the initiative from Mr. Terzić. Why Mr. Terzić left 25 with the initiative to, that OHR is leading the police reform, and then what came out could just be smudged and spilled. So it's, it's not like principle. The other thing is, it is not in principle to invite the High Representative to appoint a head of the institution and agency if the Council of Ministers cannot agree. Third thing, why can't the Council of Ministers work, why can't, aren't they unreasonable people out there. Does that mean you're running some kind of exclusivity? Exclusive policies. So if you do and what is an exclusive policy. If, therefore, someone disagrees with the Chairman's policy, then it is simply not constructive, nor principled, etc. Furthermore, the chairman says he has accepted the resignation, which is notsens. It's a stalemate. It was submitted to a completely different occasion and after a non-mental session, it was no longer current. If that were the case, Mr. Terzić would not have asked Mr. Dokić to resign again and do it again. So there can't be two arches according to the same resignations. Furthermore, what Mr Terzić probably wanted to bypass, it is this parliament because it knows what they are called and how they are resolved by ministers. Secondly, in yesterday's signing of Mr. Terzić's resignation, he was immediately appointed as acting deputy. According to OHR rules, the person who resigns has a technical mandate until the moment it is appointed next. Therefore, they are all small but small illogical. I wouldn't say even tiny. So this is where it cools between the exclusive and the one between power and powerlessness. I'd say this is about powerlessness. Secondly, it seems to me that a long time ago, there's a time for our chairman to actually act a little bit like a high representative, to do a little imitation of him, to do a little imitation of him. I, if you remember when we were in that room, so we refused something, some proposal from Mr. Chairman, he came and said, and did, and when I suggest you won't accept it, and when he orders you, High Representative, you do it right away, and then I'm the one who's uncomfortable with the knockout of the table. So, it seems to me that that's when it started to be a little bit of an impression of those above us and we're going to act a little bit like them, so let's see who's going to squeeze, to kind of do it differently. Furthermore, it is said here that Mr Ivanic is holding the process. I don't believe that's the case. Look, instead of telling a man in principle, I'm replacing you and going to explain it to you and me at Parliament, we're talking here today and there's no man, which is also unprincipled. Very unprincipled. Who's holding the process? We need to hear it here. So, not just from man to man, but to cross his mind. Next, if it's a brake, and if a man wants to stop it, why does Mr. Chairman stop a process? Why is it holding back this parliament's demand to form a commission for the death of Srbin, Bošnjak, Jevrej and Hrvat in Sarajevo. For a year and a half, I have information that he's been doing it. Who's holding that? And why is it stopping? Who are the brakes? That's what this paralment needs to discuss. So I think this was very unprincipled not to tell the man, not to tell him and first, it had to be done on the Council of Ministers and not like this until 2:15 quite fine, you're going to get on a plane now and I'm going to do what I'm going to do. So I don't believe that this is the 26th capacity of the chairman's council of ministers. And, actually, I can't support it. Of course. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18207	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed answered the words. Get Ivo Lozančić ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow MPs and gentlemen from the Council of Ministers, I would like very briefly, more with a question. Mr. Terzić, I think your move that you've made has another background than the one you brought out here. Your principle, which you have potentiated and highlighted twice, in a certain way, has been denied yourself. And I wouldn't talk about it. I ask the question is, in this particular case, a stumbling block and a chapel that exploded, the quality and similarity of the SIP executive, or is that some other vanity? If the quality and similarity were set, and the procedure that was guided and the relations that created the path to do so was escalated into these changes, I would support you and would always have my support as a parliamentarian and if a man. If it's some other vanity, and it's being seen in a certain way or other reasons, which aren't standing, then something here feels unspoken and I would ask you to tell the real truth in front of this Parliament. Gentlemen, I've been in a position of such, such and such, that and that person has imposed a certain line, has suggested this under the supposed signs, that we should have a choice of unquality, unsuitable, man by this and that basis, and I couldn't accept it as chairman, and I did what I did. If that's it, that's it. And I would support you. If it isn't, then something's wrong and I feel the void I'm asking you to fill in on my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18209	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Have Mr. Sead Avdić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18210	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I expected to say right away in the introduction, that by the start of the session we will have received and written your address in order to better monitor the little points and the problems from which you have asked for today's address, so that we can either help you or in some way this one, try as Parliament, as a legislative authority, to try to reach certain solutions with our own conclusions. I expected much more in the introduction that you would point out to us in the introduction and the degree of reforms achieved and the pain of this three years to do something more and also 27 I expected in the finality of your conversion that you would more emphasize how to put into office of the Council of Ministers, which is your vision, how it will function and whether it will work at all. It is known from the media that you have come into one weakness and that you have appealed to repacking, as you have said, I think it is the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers and everywhere in the countries in the phase and work to be the reconstruction of the Council of Ministers and we have not been reconstructed and it is expected that there will be a re-construction because calling for extraordinary elections is not possible at this time when, while we prepare everything, changes to the Election Law, rules and prepared, it will probably be 8-9 and maybe a year, and then again, it is regular elections. I am more interested in what your vision is, how to put into office of the Council of Ministers to move the parliamentary majority, to be satisfied, to make it work, because it is obviously not serious to seek in a quick time extraordinary elections and it is also not so much to accept the resignation after 6-7 months that it stands. You'd have to say I'm deciding whether you decided to switch, whether you decided to make a reconstruction, whether you decided to renew the cycle of parliamentary majority talks, whether you were offering maybe some other parliamentary majority without one of the two MPs without which you could achieve a parliamentary majority and get quality personnel. You also did not explain to us why the High Representative, what motivated him if he went to professionalism, not to be a professional in the order of the Croatian people, this should have been my question under parliamentary questions for Minister Bariš Čolak. What do you think you do as a ministry, that in some way this one, you suggest to the High Representative that this is a country of three constituent equal nations that have in some way made a timetable of leadership and that in important segments such as the SIP. Here, I expect that you will give an emphasis on your view of a possible settlement, that is, how to put the Council of Ministers in office because it is not seriously expected that we can hold extraordinary elections and it is even more unserious to expect that in this current position we meet the conditions of stabilisation and accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18211	Thank you. Mr. Sead Avdić has his word, let Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18212	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, I would first like to try to give an answer simply to these contradictions, i.e. the deepest crisis if it can be said in the Council of Ministers for the past 2.5 years. A crisis that culminated with this, I would say, after seven months of converted resignation, that really concerns the common man and simply concerns the aspect of what has been waiting so far and in what sense the resignation was present at the Council of Ministers. But let me answer these two questions first. So the first fundamental question is why is the crisis in the Council of Ministers and this is just an example of how the Council of Ministers is in its own blockade and cannot simply continue on the path of European integration and reforms that are necessary in BiH's legislative system. The first reason is, these multiethnic states cannot function on national as an exclusive political principle. Isn't that 28 today's discussion and everything that's been said to you so far just didn't prove it. It can't work. You can't say in the civil service, this nation will be this, this nation will be that. Well, you can't, people. So who can say that? That's one. So one multiethnic society can't function on this unsustainable political philosophy. Two, how when you sat down and set up the Council of Ministers, you did not remember to write a document that would be called an agreement on the establishment of a paraliamentary majority in the House of Representatives, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the 2002-2006 term. It wasn't made. So there's no document. The second document accompanying the document is the programme, a political programme or platform on which the parliamentary majority will operate for 4 years. That BiH citizens know what to expect from this authority. And no wonder this is happening to us. It's absolutely not weird. There's nothing, there's nothing, there's nothing, there's nothing, there's no letter, there's no parliamentary majority agreement, there's no simple political platform on which this parliamentary majority works, and it's no accident what's going on. Given the fact that I can finish my colleague Zorić, we can discuss this in the corner of this building.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18213	Just keep going, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18214	...substantial political issues and in this context
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18215	Please just keep going,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18216	No problem, sure. If I have to do it again,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18217	Continue Discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18218	You can't have a civil servant in pre-negotiation and division of the authorities and pubs of the chair, say this one will be this one, this one will be that one. He can't. If you do not understand, it is sad for both this parliament and this state of BiH. So you can't say. Please interpret the Constitution and interpret the Law on State Service and interpret what professionalism means, criteria of professionalism and professionalism, and everything else, so we'll get to it, it's not a problem. Which means it's not by accident for me, what's happening, and it's quite simply expected. On the other hand, emotions, Mr. Chairman, are not a good ally or politics or politicians. And when a man brings emotion, simply such a radical attitude, then objectively we have these sessions that are just opening a simple question of where is the professor, or Dr Ivanić and where are the others, so we will now start to discuss etc. And in this context only one difficult one opens, deepens the crisis, simply the one that is recorded in the Council of Ministers. Which means, I've asked you to give one mosaic a way of functioning the Council of Ministers. In that mosaic, as decisions were made, as they came to the law, 29 which was crucial for police reform to stop, you didn't want to say anything about it and I don't know why or how. This is one of the key fundamental problems that cannot be excluded from this mosaic problem, including Dr Ivanić and all others, which means that if you can say so, Dr Ivanić was doing his job well, building a country according to the scale of his party, and normally that man advocates, there are no dilemmas. And he doesn't need much to be taken away from him. So Dr Ivanić did his part of the job, which means you had to recognize it and simply solve problems in a different way. Under four, are these parties in a party relationship or not? Or are they in an enemy relationship? Either they're opposing each other, so they're enemies to each other or they're in a partner relationship? Can I rule this country? Can I rule? Can I rule? I'd really like to hear it. It means they're giving an answer. Can I run the state of BiH? He's gone, he's been given a good chair to open these questions, to lead the situation to absurdity, and I congratulate him, that he had the courage. What do you think one chairman makes such a risky decision without the consent of his party, one chairing calls for early elections without the consent of his party, I ask you to respect it. Without the consent of their party, so here's what the newspapers say. The papers say. So that possible, possibly, yes. Which means that it's just good that we've striped the situation and that we can speak freely about these issues. I see an exit in the next situation. Two exits are equally preferred to the opposition if so, and which is also close to me, amendments to the Election Law, new elections, etc. and there is no dilemma, a formal legal clean solution and a simple change of government of BiH. Whether it will show a change of government and what political configuration, campaign, etc. Taking into account the stalemate in implementing reforms and everything else, this first proposal, whether new elections and how to amend the Electoral Law should be assessed objectively. I am closer to another interim solution, I ask you, one other temporary solution, by the 2006 elections, I propose that, if parties can, together, agree on a programme of measures on the European path of BiH and form an emergency expert government, not a government according to the party or nation criteria, but an expert government of BiH by the 2006 elections, and this could be one of the possible answers to get out of this crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18219	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, let Petar Kunić prepare himself. Well, I mean, are you kidding or were you really looking for a replica? Mr. Vinko Zorić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18220	Well, I, uh, told my colleague Marija Perkanović this quietly, it doesn't have to mean if Avdić doesn't know anything, he doesn't exist. And this, Avdić was distracted by it and he reacted so that he mentioned me in the approach and I also resent Mr Avdić, so from the moment he mentioned me, he talked normally, until then, in my opinion, he spoke emotionally, and at that very moment he called for emotions to be rejected. So he's contradictory to himself because he often uses emotions when he talks to us here in Parliament. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18221	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18222	Just two words
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18223	You've already spoken two words, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18224	...really fellow Zorić, in this dramatic state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the difficulties in which we are, can a man really speak in a cold voice, without emotional or simple, relations to the reality of BiH discuss, if, every honor, I cannot, I have emotions and I am discussing emotionally, simply because I know that my children remain here in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18225	Thank you very much, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has a word to prepare Mr. Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18226	You got it, huh?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18227	I don't say it twice, it's enough once, it's enough for you once.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18228	Well, you just called me and I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18229	You know who's being repeated twice, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18230	Mr. Chairman, Mr. First and Second Deputy, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, I want to begin by commending the Council of Ministers for what I did before he was here, that in such a dramatic situation, he himself wishes to address us, because it was usually different. We asked them to come to us, even lock us up, and, well, he didn't come. Here, he came today. And I really think that's very good. I'll share both emotions and racio with two, so less, I'll say a little bit depending on what it would be natural for a man to say everything now. I think with this commendation that he got from the chairman, there's a little bit of a grudge going on, I don't even think it's decent, let alone normal, giving us information about this by going out for a pay phone without one paper, without calling anything that's a document. And that's exactly why the breast-feeding information we got, objectively didn't answer that question that's 31 points of the agenda. You just wouldn't answer the question that the agenda point is the broader, the state of the country that we've changed to what we have now. What concerns me is, I asked you earlier, Mr. Chairman, how many people there are and here I was waiting, I'm the seventh speaker. I didn't want to answer earlier, I expected that people of the parliamentary majority would say something, be obvious, tell us if they exist as a parliamentary majority. It's a capital issue right now. It's not Ivanić's question, Ivanic here is just a reason for everything we're talking about today, but I'll say something about it. I think the decision is politically absolutely logical and correct, what the chairman of the Council of Ministers did. In fact, the Council of Ministers doesn't function objectively, we found out, even the President of the Council of Ministers told us that a drop in the Council of Ministers' activities is visible, and I congratulate him on seeing it, after all this time. And that's why one decision like this is logical, and I hope that she will offer us a little wider discussion about all of this, not just to end up with whether Ivanic is where he is, and why he is where he is. It is also logical because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is objectively not working, the foreign minister objectively does not correspond to the function he had and he is doing it badly and that is why it is logical. However, this decision, unfortunately, is slightly unfounded and is legally not consistent, and unfortunately we have to take care of it because we still have to respect the Constitution, the laws and all the legal acts in such a delicate situation. The next logic we heard here, the chairman of the Council of Ministers could have replaced Mr. Čolak because Čolak proposed the man Pedi didn't choose. Well, following that logic, he could have replaced the reverse man if he was. I'm not saying it would make sense, but it would make sense to this logic that was brought to us by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. What worries me is when I heard here with three functions, I quote, the division between three peoples. I'm not talking about constitutional, I'm talking about equality, but if we share such functions between three peoples, an independent competition institute, etc., then it should be said, that in this contest one of the conditions is to be a Hrvat, and that's fine, so that only Hrvat can report, so that the best Hrvat can be chosen, too much. But the division of functions between the three nations is something I fear is a termology that is not like the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I think the decision also has a legal question. I mean, look what it's all about. Today, while we are talking here, Minister Ivanić presents himself as foreign minister, and we heard from the Council of Ministers that he is no longer. So now we've come to an international scandal today in Cordoba, Spain, I guess you asked him where he was going. And the man went and he represented us there at the ministerial meeting as the foreign minister of this country and he's doing it at the OSC summit if I'm not mistaken. It's practically a scandal that we've unnecessarily afforded ourselves here, not to say that then it's condescending for this chairman to return the minister from there, to tell him you're not a minister anymore, to return to send a diplomatic note there at the airport waiting for him ambassador, tell him, please here's your ticket back, etc. I mean, that would all be normal. Unfortunately, it's not normal for this guy to go there when he's already told him you're not a minister anymore, but my Bog. He was appointed, we heard here the secretary of the ministry, acting as minister. It does not exist in the Council of Ministers' Law, it does not know that in the Council of Ministers' Law. Why did the deputy minister, a few days ago, go to Brussels and stop being the deputy minister? If she were there, everything would be easier for us, the chairman of the Council of Ministers would be more likely to have 32 opportunities if she were practically this one, the acting minister, and everything would be much simpler. Now we've entered a legal void that's quite unnecessary. I think what's the problem today and we need to talk about it today, the reasons for this are much deeper and we need to talk about the causes. We adopted the minutes today, Mr. Chairman, there from the Council of Ministers we had an obligation from last session of Parliament to give us a plan to implement the VAT, the third item of the agenda, look at the minutes, to give us the Social Programme Action Plan for the introduction of the VAT, and we didn't get that. We have long concluded in this House that they should give us information about this import of garbage imported uncontrollably and which smugglers here are suffering, this market and we haven't gotten it. On May 19th, we had an announcement by the Commission of the CTF, the launch of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, the chairman of the Council of Ministers told us half a year ago that he would resign unless it was positive, it was not positive, there is no resignation, there is only his replacement of the foreign minister. So, the state of the country is such that, and I think we should help the chairman of the Council of Ministers to carry out a thorough reconstruction. One thorough reconstruction and that you from the parliamentary majority do not have to speak here today if you are not ready, to re-constitute and see if you exist as a parliamentary majority, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers finely resign as chairman of the Council of Ministers and then get a new mandate, to carry out a thorough reconstruction of the Council of Ministers if that is your definition. Because, look, we are now objectively 9 ministers, 4 who have been elected here, 4 are no longer assuming that Mladen is not now, although today it is, but that's what it is. So in every country when one third is breached when one third of the ministers is changed, they resign from the chairman of the Council of Ministers to which the head of state again gives a mandate if that is okay and he re-shapes the Council of Ministers. Well, let Adnan Terzić reshape the Council of Ministers or whoever you agree with. So, I think the problem is that there's been a lot of damage. Amongst today's council of ministers is the opposite of the Council of Ministers Act, Article 6. The Council of Ministers says that among the members of the Council of Ministers including a member of the Council of Ministers referred to in Article 24, the Secretary-General said it must be of the order of the others. As far as I know, no one is that. And that's what the Council of Ministers Act says. The current composition of the Council of Ministers, therefore, is contrary to the Council of Ministers' Act of National Balance. Article 18 has also been marred, which says when deciding that unless a consensus is reached on that SIP director, is that within 7 days they need to make a decision that includes what it includes. Much more time has passed than seven days and the whole procedure has been made the opposite and is not in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law. I think that what is worrying is also why more is the reason for a re-election of whether you have a parliamentary majority, whether it exists and that you form the Council of Ministers' right because the OHR announced 10 days ago, the High Representative announced that he would call a press conference at which part of the powers he would hand over to the institutions of the state. He didn't call that press conference, which is where you can tell that man has no one to hand it to. So, there's no one to hand it over to, and that's why this one, you should see that you get it back and see if you want to take it or not. 33 Also, I think it's encouraging but it's really encouraging, I congratulate on the courage of the chairman of the Council of Ministers who told us that he didn't have the consent of anyone to do this. It's really for congratulation, for courage, and it's encouraging. Encouraging because it means that when consulted, it may get most of it and it will be able to perform a thorough reconstruction or we will enter into some new quality from this chaos, which is also needed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers and us. Now I'd like to suggest a few conclusions, Mr. Chairman. We need to find out today, and here you need to see whether there is a parliamentary majority in this country or not. I believe Ivanić is responsible and that you should have replaced him, Mr. Chairman. I'm not arguing at all. You should have replaced him a long time ago, you should have replaced him in the last 10 days because of a few equative things he didn't do as a foreign minister. He was visited by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Španija here. And after that, the two of them came out. And the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Španija, told him it was a shameful lie, as said by a local police officer who said, to remind you that a terrorist attack in Sarajevo was the most disgusting and brutal terrorist attack in modern Europe, an attack in Madrid, a terrorist attack. And a local police officer came out and said that terrorism was stored here in Bosnia and Herzegovina in Madrid. The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Španija came and said it was incorrect in front of our foreign minister. Our foreign minister was supposed to be a statesman immediately afterwards insisting on the replacement of that small local criminal who claims to be a police officer because he made an international fuss, with everything else coming his way. But that's all the foreign minister needed to do. The foreign minister was supposed to be manifested by the conduct of a shameful, shameful, tragic crime committed over that young man's fist. He was supposed to do so as foreign minister, the more he came from another people than those masquerade people. That's why he was supposed to be removed. And let's do it. But you need Mr. Chairman to resign now and ask for an inquiry among your coalition partners whether you exist as a parliamentary majority, to seek a radical reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. If you get a mandate, go on, if you don't get it, see which one of you gets it. If you don't get up, you're going to be doing what you're doing in your technical mandate until the next election, and then it's going to be this technical government, then name the experts, this outfit praises these three or four, these experts, and you name it all in the technical mandate fine-tuning end. Ivanić should have been removed because he went there to fake his introduction, if you told him not to pour your trust anymore, etc. I therefore propose two conclusions. The first conclusion, the Parliamentary Assembly calls on the Council of Ministers to resign. An explanation of why. It's clear to me that we can do this by Article 116. The Rules of Procedure launch procedure and now we can have a club of MPs collect signatures and then you in 30 days have to be obvious. But it's not about that at all. Let's see, a man today needs to see if he has any support here. If most say do not resign, nothing, continue with this council of ministers and continue to negotiate between yourselves where you are and what you are. So, in conclusion, we call on him whether he does it or not, about that. Then you guys make a deal later. Unless we have a majority that needs to change this. 34 So the conclusion number one is we invite the chairman of the Council of Ministers and then I have no objection to giving him a new mandate, but I do not believe that you will find someone who will do this better than he does, although this is all a disaster. Conclusion number two. The Council of Ministers is required to prepare amendments and additions to the Electoral Law within 7 days to define the procedure for organising early elections. These are two conclusions that can be considered, which can make us all serious, because the situation in the country is much, much more serious than whether or not the false minister falsely presents himself in one country. The problems of this country are much, much greater. And here is Mladen Ivanić, the man whom we will thank for bringing us into a position to get rid of all this, so perhaps so amnesty for these shameful failures of his just lately, that I don't speak those before. Well, I thank Mr. Chairman, I am fascinated by your silence as I speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18231	They say sometimes silence is the best answer, and you know when and who. Mr. Petar Kunić, let Mr. Nikola Špirić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18232	Thank you, Presiding.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18233	You'll be in line, you're in writing. The secretary writes, "Here you go."
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18234	I would have noticed some of the facts that have dominated this Parliament all along, and also in the Council of Ministers, of course, that these two institutions are very connected, respectively, given their activities. In fact, whenever it came to the appointment of a person to a place, there was a confrontation in the Council of Ministers. And that is the basic dimension in the work of the Council of Minstars. Whenever it comes to appointing, especially when these services are, Intelligence, SIP, Police, etc. And then I ask myself the question, who is it that lobbys for individuals to keep their staffs anyway? It speaks of the state of BiH. It's about a crime that's huge. Maybe if I were to go further, maybe I'd keep going and now I'm going to keep quiet about the connection of certain structures to that crime. That's very symptomatic. It is likely that someone will answer this question which will deal with the analysis and work of Parliament and the situation in this society. Mr. Terzić, therefore, the chairman of the Council of Ministers says he has asked the High Representative to appoint or appoint a SIP director. First of all, I can't get an answer from any foreigner, from any lawyer, from any expert to answer me, can the High Representative permanently appoint a director of the SIP? He can't. The High Representative may appoint only a provisional or provisional decision, i.e. the Bosnian Declaration. And that decision, and that decision, 35 please, and that decision is required to be submitted to the Council of Ministers or to the President for confirmation. Is that what the High Representative does? Does the High Representative follow the Bosnian Declaration? No, I don't. Highest, I repeat here that the High Representative has no right to pass laws. He makes them under a firm decision, but they're laws. He has no right, as it would say in the Bosnian Declaration that he is obliged to make the decision, the law is submitted to Parliament after a while for confirmation. That doesn't say. And what do BiH lawyers do? Dake, is it in anyone's interest that it lasts, when he needs to ask the High Representative to appoint, when he doesn't need to protest such a decision. So, as long as we're homoduples, this is how it's gonna be for us, we don't have a principle anywhere. We're nowhere consistent and principled. Why isn't this Bonaan declaration applied as it says? Why don't we study why foreign experts don't sit down and see what's in the Bonn Declaration? No one's going to, but it's happening again, the High Representative has an unlimited, no gentlemen dear. There are no unlimited rights and it can't be, so what would be in this world if an individual had unlimited rights, that no one could control it, so what is it, then where do we live? Another thing I wanted to point out for the President of the Council of Minstar, according to article 6 of Mr Lagumdžija, he mentioned, but he interpreted it in his own context and I will do it in my own. The Council of Ministers Act states in Article 6 that during the entire term of office, therefore continuity, esdiscontinuity must be the representation of constituent peoples in the Council of Ministers during the entire term of office. Therefore, the President of the Council of Ministers has violated Article 6. The Council of Ministers Act because, as far as I've heard it, I haven't heard it today, you've appointed to the Council of Ministers people who aren't from this people where the ministers went. Therefore, it is the task of this Parliament and I ask it to reach its conclusion, to repeal that decision because it does not comply with Article 6. The Council of Ministers Act. That's what I'm contesting. I'm not disputing your resignation. That's your right, but I'm contesting you can't name persons from other constituent peoples if it says here that during the entire term there must be a representation of the constituent peoples in the Council of Ministers. Also, deputies cannot permanently replace but, said deputy ministers only replace them in the event of their absence and prevention. So, by resigning the minister, the second minister must be elected immediately, and I think this is the best solution proposed by Mr Lagumdžija, the resignation of the Council of Ministers, and may the prime minister be re-elected and the new Council of Ministers appointed. I think it's acceptable and it's the only solution. There's been a lot of talk here about civil servants, national representation, so gentlemen, it's all in the laws. It says in the Law of Expensive Service, simply that representation must be. And, gentlemen, one more indiscipline, and we will not leave the crisis, I say to you until we adapt our heads to new relationships. We can't represent each other in the entity and the other here. We need to be consistent. If we insist that it must be in the entity, then it must also be in Parliament. But it has to be on a local level and everywhere. So if we accept one principle and make it a legal norm, then we choose to respect the legal norm there. Just by respecting the legal norm, this is a fundamental reform. It is not the reform of the abolition of entities and their competences, but the reform is to accept legal norms, to adopt the rules of play as they are in European countries. I think we're misreading the reform. 36 And, what I would like to say in the end, I think that the major conflict in the Council of Ministers came on the route and what comes here, and what comes here, I sense things, because some things I can assume based on anti-constitutional action. Some things are going anti-constitutional. I'd invite everyone. We have a constitution, let's respect the constitution while he's in effect. I am not here to protect Mr Ivanić, but I cannot accept the fact that he represents a blockade for economic reform and a European path, knowing Mr Ivanić's mentality and character, I think he was the least interference on the road. I can't help but tell the truth, no matter what I was in that party, I left, etc. And I can't accept these qualifications and grades. And, finally, I would ask you all to leave this little insulting rhetoric, criminals, local criminals, here's Mr. Lagumdžija now said, so I hear some other things, if we have no evidence of that, let's not develop such a spirit, such an atmosphere in Parlamnt. That's not good. It's not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18235	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word, let Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18236	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I've been thinking all along about whether it makes any sense today to conduct this debate. I thought this debate we're seeing today would be on the trail of finding a solution to the situation we're in. But here's to not be different from my colleagues who discussed it, I'm going to try to make a little comment and say what I think. That I do not know the relations in Parliament, when Mr. Lagumdžija praises Adnan Terzić and says that his basic quality is courage, and he is most often not an ally of reason, then I do not see which direction he wants to praise Mr. Terzić. But then there's an old people who always have to stick to it when there's a crisis, so I'm not free, no regrets after singing. So, what happened happened. The prime minister says he hasn't consulted with anyone, and I think that, here's to trust Mr. Adnan Terzić, but I think the days ahead will show whether there was a consultation or not. And it is the right of the Prime Minister to consult and not consult. No one can take that right from him. This isn't about ladies and gentlemen, according to my assessment of the Council of Ministers crisis that was made yesterday by the chairman's move. He is a real virtuoso that for three years he has managed to lead this council of ministers because the principles on which it works are the principles of the crisis. Constant crises. This is where he talks, and I think that's what Mr. Terzić said, when he said we're in Banja Luka, they actually, not he agreed to split functions. And you know, Sejo Avdić said it well when it was divided between the people, then it was a division of the people, and when it was divided into BiH, then the government was divided into Bosnia and Herzegovina. This authority is designed to rule the divided Bosnia and Herzegovina and is persistently trying to explain to citizens that it wants a unique, indivisible integral, etc. And so there's a conflict of morality which one speaks to the citizens, is essentially a concept that works and does a whole other thing. 37 I think Mr Ivanić's resignation has just shed a glass of sound and I, as Professor Kunić says, am not here to defend Ivanić, although I do not want to be the man who wants to blame him for something that is not guilty and I do not think that this was the reason for Mr Terzić to elect or not the SIP director's election and that the visok Representative had to do so. But this says there's a crisis, a government crisis, a Council of Ministers crisis. I don't suppose that crisis was produced by Mladen Ivanić. But the damage has been done, and there's Dr. Lagumdžija, absolutely right that Mladen's out there today. I think it would be better if he were here today in Parliament listening to this debate. If we're going to make a fuss, the question is, who's going to pay for the trip to Mladen Ivanić in Spain? Will that be paid by taxpayers? Whether it will be paid by the Council of Ministers because it is almost certainly not in office today as foreign minister in Spain. Not to mention the political consequences, but it all had to be taken into account by the prime minister when he made a move on the political consequences of what today's country is a man who was changed or accepted his resignation. These are serious consequences for Bosnia and Herzegovina, to the side that will return the collegiate relations where they were, or never have been, and will return to where they have never been. People will contact and everything is fine, but the consequences are done. I think the story that for the past six months, it has been the assessment of the Council of Ministers' chairman's council that the work of the Council of Ministers has fallen, and we feel it best in Parliament. But where was the honesty when Nikola Špirić sincerely asked, so not when everyone thought that criticism should be directed towards Adnan Terzić to inform this parliament. At that time, it was said to the public that Nikola Špirić is an exhibitionist who is more than willing to fall to the Council of Ministers. No, I don't. I would be the luckiest of the opposition if we had the best Council of Ministers to carry his mandate by 2006 until new elections. So, at that time, it was presented to the public that everything was ideal until 10 days ago, the evaluation of the Council of Ministers' Presidency on the picture of Bosnia and Herzegovina spoken in Boegorada was fantastic and brilliant, only to God the international community and the citizens of the country we represent do not trust us. And it's in itself a story about the work of the Council of Ministers. But what's symptomatic of me is that the chairman has skillfully spoken and opened a picture for political thinking a little more lucid than we're prepared for here. He said the PDP is not participating in the Republika Srpska government. He can't even be helped in the government at the Council of Ministers. So it's not the Mladen Disturbation. But here the question arises whether Adnan Terzić is an SDS man and will this bring SDS to the state parliament? Because if he was bothered by the PDP there, it's fantastic that he cleaned it up here, let's not get angry with his colleagues from the SDS, they got a good ally, but I think when the backs of the international community are turned, they have now a good ally as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and that's what we're not going to hear today, but it's going to show up in a few days. But that's what I expected from the chairman of the Council of Ministers to say where the exit is. So the moves were made. It's impossible to get them back. No one can return, no one can force the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and no matter what I think the temperature shouldn't be raised, because there's a possibility that the milk will leak, that no one has any of it. So, but the move was made. What's the solution? And he said I'd talk to the leaders of the RS party. I think that's the way to talk about whether it's gonna fill or not. But now ask the question of what position is Bosnia and Herzegovina in? There is no Council of Ministers meeting for 20 days. There isn't. It wasn't a session. I am prepared to believe that this call now, regardless of appointments, will not be held by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I guess it's gonna be hard to fill out, just because of this story and the thinking he's talking about, the 38 he's going to dominate. So, that it will be difficult to fill and we have an objective situation that has been brought without a way out, unless it will be filled in in two days and if it is meant to work on that background, the filling should be clearly and aloud said – that it will be done, but then the words of this that there were no agreements are without me. The Prime Minister won't be angry that I said Terzić as an SDS man. But I think the situation is going that way. In that direction, as he was brought here from the SDS into a stalemate situation, because today the prime minister told the paper that he had caught them, he must not stop. So they were introduced into a track in which, as children, when they go to school, they have to go in order as they're told. Yeah, to hold hands. Now that'll show time. Is Mladen Ivanić being replaced because he is not in Republika Srpska's government, it has now clouded my affairs somehow. So he's being transferred there can't help what I want. So give me a stir here and strengthen the SDS to make the reforms go faster. If that's the way around Bosnia and Herzegovina's path towards Euro-Atlantic integration, I'm ready, no matter what I'm from the opposition to support it. But how will the attitudes of those who observe our work be? Then I think she's hypocritical to the SDS. We do everything we can to strengthen people. They're running away from it because they know it's a big responsibility. And here we don't even let them give up pieces of power. I congratulate people, because they will receive four ministers at the Council of Ministers at the time of the biggest noise, international and domestic. If that doesn't happen, whether it will be before the elections or an emergency, I don't know, but then the chairman will come into office again to address Parliament very soon. Of course I don't want to. I don't want the Council of Ministers crisis to last in the interest of these citizens. But there will be no other way out than to come here and say everything is in your hands, or resignations, or not resignations, or shifts, or the election of a new Council of Ministers. Almost certainly the idea initiated by Dr. The Lagumdžija of the Council of Ministers' initiative on early elections is the only one that is too high in this situation. Let's all offer our seats to the citizens for verification. Both MPs and government and all, and to have a new majority come, perhaps the same. The total majority of four years to speed up the standing processes. It is much better for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina than to bathe in mud for the next year and a half. So much better, much more rational. Now I don't know why we're afraid of it. Voting on the agenda point Dr. Lagumji is showing that the parliamentary majority is not ready for it. But if the citizens want to tolerate it, I don't have anything against it either. But I don't think that the objective situation in which Bosnia and Herzegovina is located is good, not only for the sake of these moves by the Council of Ministers and the work of the Council of Ministers, but it's not good at all, and I think it would be good, no matter what I see, the international community is rebelling, so I see the OHR's position is impossible until spring. No, anything's possible. It is possible to amend the law by 15, it is possible to call the elections in 90 days and it is possible to find 10 million for funding. It is much less than the numbers of robberies processed by Bosnia and Herzegovina's judiciary. In front of the public's eyes, there's also a need for Trebinje from the Elektroprivreda to get out 60 million, to get the criminals out. 60 million! And you might think it's being invested in this country. I think the price we're going to pay through the new elections, asking for a better majority isn't a big price and I'm absolutely in that position, even if I've never been an MP. But here I am ready to give my term of office for verification. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you very much. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18237	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić. Let Mrs Dušanka Majkić prepare herself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Listening to the discussions of my predecessors and their concerns that at the moment Minister Ivanic obviously harms the reputation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the world, it might not be bad for a man to tell them that he has been changed, so if he knew, he might not have done so. I didn't want to talk about it. This whole thing looks like, it reminds me of a little HNK play from Mostar where Momo and Mujo are fighting. This one wants RS, this one wants BiH. Hold on to that one, the more the more the more and the more the fighting ends up going into a fight. By the time they got into a fight, Mate grabbed her head. They ask Mat why you care if they fight? He says shut up, whenever they fight, I get the head. Therefore, I would only like to congratulate the chairman of the Council of Ministers on the very resourcefulness of solving the problem in the Council of Ministers and the High Representative for a very wise and fair decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18239	Thank you. Mrs. Dušanka Majkić. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18240	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, the Honorable Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18241	A little attention. We'll take a break. Please, let's listen to the debaters. A little attention, let's hear what our colleagues are saying. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18242	It's been a long time since we've had a chance to see this kind of gathering coming from the Council of Ministers, and that means it's an interesting topic, because probably today and who knows when we're going to see these people again today. I listened very carefully to the speaker's speech and I didn't hear any of what I think I should have heard as an MP. And I don't think that's the usual way for the president of the Council of Ministers to address MPs. I think that way should be much more formal, much more, with more analysis and suggestions. After all this, all I know is that this is primarily proof of his infirmity. He showed, I'm sorry he's not here and he's shown his inconsistency. The resignation he made in one time and one occasion he used in another time and for another occasion. 40 Finally, a rational question that I asked myself – did the High Representative's decision confirm that the insistence on Mr Ivanić's proposal and the OHR's confirmation that his proposal was ultimately okay and that he was right, was that the result of which he should have been removed? Unfortunately, it is not the first time that this country has suffered from the mistakes of its politicians, and it is likely to happen in the future, but at this point in making such a decision, Mr Terzić has not taken enough care to follow large reforms in this country and that this country should be removed from poverty from the bottom of the European scale and that any lagging on that path means an unwavering stay where, where we want to go as soon as possible. And maybe this opportunity is, since we don't see you often in this House, or you or your ministers, maybe this is an opportunity to say one more thing. I think this parliament deserves much better co-operation with the Council of Ministers. I think to you personally, and also to think that the countless issues that have left this house, which have been asked by MPs, who have not received the answer, many initiatives, the demands that have left the various House of Representatives committees have been left unresponsive and obviously that communication is not quite good at this relationship and that there is absolutely nothing. I think at the end of the day when a man comes in a position not to be able to make a quality and smart decision, maybe it's more honest, I can't go on like this. That's why I have no idea, no vision, and no one. Some citizen said the other day, thank God there is an institution of the High Representative for everything that politicians in Bosnia and Herzegovina forget, there is one who will make those decisions later. I wonder if the speed of your decision is appropriate to the gravity of the situation that this decision has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18243	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Have Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18244	I thank Mr. Chairman, the honourable members of the Council of Ministers, fellow MPs, I must say that I have not heard so many words of praise at the expense of the SDS as just before by fellow Špirić which should give us some indication that it is time to turn our backs on the wall. Namely, I will take this discussion and take this as a compliment to the successfully-led SDS policy. I heard that Mr. Terzić was in function of the SDS a few months ago that Mr. Eždaun is in function of the SDS and whenever someone is in function of the SDS is in the SDS. I hope we don't do it this time, 'cause I don't think we can get any more of this. But well, it's not the subject of this debate today, so I'm sorry that it's been mentioned so many times in general, so here's why I had to say a few words. What I was interested in, and now I'm interested, and that's why I was against having this on the agenda today -- what's the point of putting this point on the agenda? It seems to me that the request as well as Mr. Terzić's decision is excitable, or maybe it's just me. Perhaps the goal is to put and insist that this is on the agenda of Parliament's support 41 decisions by Mr Terzić. If that's the point, then the SDS Club won't be in on it. So we don't think that today we should be giving any kind of support to anyone. It also raises many questions, questions after Mr. Terzić's decision. Question why decide who will replace Mr Dokić when Article 7. The Council of Ministers law makes it perfectly clear that the deputy minister is replacing the minister in the event of his prevention. So, according to automation, this thing is legally settled and there's no reason for a new decision. The new decision has led to exactly the national balance. It's completely unnecessary. The question arises as to why the secretary of the foreign ministry did not appoint as acting minister and deputy minister when we lost the deputy minister, but instead appointed as acting minister. I guess we lost the Minister's prisoner first, so it would be our turn to appoint the Deputy Minister's office first. Who knows who in this hierarchy would then be appointed acting minister? The question arises whether the Presidency, led by this mode of work, will meet and respect Mr Terzić's request for resolution. It was once rejected, but when it's done like this it can put it back on the agenda and accept it. It'd all be normal if this was normal. Of course, I don't think this is normal, so it probably wouldn't be normal. I won't repeat now how this situation occurred who requested the High Representative's intervention, what he did, etc. etc., which is why Mladen Ivanić was removed. I must say that Mladen Ivanić would never get this much support as he got today, so maybe this shift is in his favor. We can make these different findings the way Mr. Špirić did, and we can also be happy that this happened. Viewed formally, Mr Ivanić was removed because he did not allow political interference in police structures. In fact, one of the conditions, often mentioned in police reform, was the lack of political interference in police reform. So it's the waist. The waist said what she said. I'm just asking you to don't think how I am, how I am for Sredo Novic, director of the SIP. So, I'm talking about the High Representative being on a request, or a request, however you want to use something that's a question of whether it's his right, as Mr. Kunić said, but he took advantage of it, so he named the man who again showed that Mr. Ivanić was right when he stood up for that man. So he was right and because he was right he was changed. We could do a series more from these different findings, but there's no need except for the fact that we have to say what we're on right now. So at this point, it is evident that such a move, first of all, has led to a stalemate and will lead to a stalemate in the reform of either choice or no choice. Both in one version and in another. One for the election, one against the election. It is known how this attitude will take place, but in every variant there has been a halt in the reforms, so if you want to further implement already advanced processes, i.e. long-accepted laws. Part of the responsibility, or most of the responsibility for this process, will have to be taken over by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. And when I mentioned, although I have no intention of really mentioning anyone in particular, I must say that Mr. Terzić's debate is not correct in the section relating to the national balance, because we are not talking about the national balance from the position of the people's fear of the number of ministers, we are talking about the national balance from the constitutional position. So from the position of the Constitution, you really shouldn't look at the national balance in any other light. I'm not gonna tell you how we got to the imbalance 3.3.4. We know exactly what the price of that imbalance was. 42 What we must mention is that as a participant of the Neum negotiations, I have had the opportunity to attend one conclusion that was then reached, which is, the parties, that I am not reading everything else now, the parties believe that such principles create conditions for the Council of Ministers to continue the work, including the representatives of the PDP. Thus, this attitude does not indicate much, i.e. it does not give much to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Law when making such a decision. I allow that he could have been a political stance, but in any case, this stance meant that Mr Ivanić's resignations were no longer available, or at least he could have meant summed up the way he was written here. I must say, at this point, I don't see a solution as simple as some colleagues here. I don't even see the election as a simple solution. I think, and I am convinced that this is a very complicated solution, given everything that needs to be done, firstly to make choices and secondly everything that will happen before the elections, which is therefore a complete stalemate and in such reforms as they are. What did he show, in fact, was the chairman of the Council of Ministers when he made this decision? I think he showed something that Mr. Radović here said, which doesn't contribute to high-ranking politicians, which is too much of an emotional presence at one point. I'm convinced it's a hasty decision, I'm convinced it's the under-sighted consequences of this decision, and I'm afraid that this decision and everything that's going to happen in the coming period will give the most headaches to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18245	Thank you. Chairman Terzić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18246	So that I asked for anything from the MPs, no support, no rejection, I just filed information on why I did yesterday what I did. And I absolutely don't expect you to plead today. I agree that each of the MPs has the right to submit a conclusion as Mr Lagumdžija did, and I absolutely agree that you are voting on those conclusions. Maybe this second conclusion isn't exactly in agreement with the first one, is if we have the conclusion that I'm resigning and disbanding the Council of Ministers. How, then, can we give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to make changes and amendments to the Electoral Law, and that is why we have a parliamentary commission, which we have jointly made at the request of the Council of Europe and with the recommendation of the Election Commission between this House and the Council of Ministers, which should propose comprehensive amendments and additions to the Electoral Law. So I absolutely didn't ask for anything except to inform you of what I did yesterday. I don't think there's anything to do with this kind of analysis. This council of ministers, and let's say this parliamentary majority had success because three Prime Ministers Mikerević, Hadžipašić and Terzić worked together, which was the process, which we were dealing with economic reforms and the moment Mr Mikerević resigned, then there was a significant disturbance in that relationship and speed. When, unfortunately, Minister Dokić had to resign, due to the process being conducted, probably mounted, but still the trial at the Court, I simply no longer have any need as chairman of the Council of Ministers to work with Mr 43 Ivanić. And I showed that by accepting my resignation. I can't get any quality with it, especially because it makes me want something that you're now trying to show visionaryly that by insisting on some principles, it puts me in a position to ask the High Representative to make decisions instead of us. Mladen Ivanić, along with the presidency, agreed to split the position. He arranged to split the position. And at that moment he knew that Sredoje Nović was not a Hrvat. He took part in that deal and then he did what he did. Blocked the process. So let's not talk about things that don't stand. And I'm pulling again, and I'm sorry. I may not be precise enough. I would have done the same if the High Representative had chosen another. The principle is broken. The principle that I want my council of ministers to make decisions, not to ask the High Representative. That's why I don't think we should wear ourselves out in debates and find conclusions. I suppose it would be normal for this House of Representatives, if you will not vote on the conclusions proposed by Mr Lagumdžija, which I must admit that with my own place I would vote, er, if you will not set things up like that, give me reasonable time to try with the parties from Republika Srpska to find a replacement for Mr Ivanić and Mr Dokić and to continue the work. If that doesn't work I'll let you know, I'll come back with new information. We cannot tie Mr Ivanić's resignation and offer a request for my resolution to the presidency. My request was rejected by the Bureau by its document, by its conclusion. Mladen Ivanić's resignation was not withdrawn and I never refused, and I must admit I kept it in the drawer. And now I've used it. Why? So that I do not come to the position that by law I must check my resolution at both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly. And be careful, I don't know which one of you will be chairing tomorrow. But if you can't decide what you're going to do, then you're looking for a chance to at least say no to who. I said yesterday that I would no longer work with Mladen Ivanić. And there's no need to look for a theory or conspiracy, or impotence, etc. etc. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18247	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž. We have, Martina, I apologize, we have two replicas. Yeah. Jelina and Filip. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18248	So here's the deal. If he can't work as chairman, then he resigns. Oh, that's one thing. Secondly, Mr Ivanić did not ask for the OHR to interfere with our decisions, but rather the chairman who insists that he does not want the OHR to interfere with him and is running and asking the OHR to settle things for him. So these are contradictions. Perfect contradictions. That's one thing. Secondly, we will not accept, for me this is an illegal decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers which he brought down yesterday to replace Minister Ivanić and I do not see why we continue to discuss it. It's just an illegal decision. We heard from the lawyers here, and now I'm even more solid about not having to discuss it. So not about Ivanic's resignation, I think we should discuss Terzic's resignation. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18249	Okay. Philippe, go ahead. Filip Andrić, replica. Short. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18250	I don't want to respect all principles. However, in the principle of the prime minister there is no logic. If he replaced Mr Ivanić because he blocked his appointment of the director of the SIP, why didn't you do it before the appointment. So they removed the problem, replaced the minister and executed the appointment. This is how you asked the High Representative to appoint you the one proposed by Mr Ivanic, and then you replaced Ivanic. Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18251	Okay. Here comes Prime Minister Terzić again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18252	Because I've tried every way I can, you've asked a question, so I'd like you to listen to me when I answer. It means because in every way possible I've tried to get the Council of Ministers in a position to make a decision. Why did I ask the High Representative? Because I couldn't afford to have an absolutely illegal covered matter in such an important area. Two months ago, no one had the right to run the SIP. I just had to. The night before the High Representative will make the decision, Mr. Čolak and I were with Mladen Ivanić and warned him that we were making a disastrous thing and that it was the three of us who run the Council of Ministers and that we should do it. The Mladen said no. And it is not hasty, but when the High Representative made a decision that I think is a shame that he is making, then I took advantage of the resignation of Mladen Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18253	Thank you. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let's see now. Let's have a discussion. Mr. Mladen Discussion. What now? The answer to the replica, right? What are replicas, what? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18254	I don't know if we understand each other. It's a shame at all that you asked the High Representative without trying to solve the problem yourself. In the same way, you could have solved the problem without asking the High Representative to execute the appointment. So when you came to the position that because of Mr Ivanić you couldn't name the director of the SIP, you could have taken the move you took yesterday. To replace Mr Ivanić, solve the problem, appoint the director of the SIP and let the High Representative let 45 prepare for the transfer of powers to the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, not to regain even stronger powers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18255	Thank you. Sir. What now? Discussion. Is the discussion to Križanović. Write down the discussion. What about you? Please. You've been discussing, there's nothing to register. What are you looking for now? Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18256	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18257	Tell me what you want. I'm asking you what you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18258	You'll find out when I get back. Call me. You'll call me sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18259	What do you want? If you want the replica, I'll give you my word right now. Mr. Lagumdžija you must tell me what you want. You've been discussing it. The first time a man shows up, it's supposed to be a discussion. You had a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18260	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18261	I need to know. That's right. You can see it's not a painful investigation, just say the word, no need at all. No need. Mr. Raguž Martin, second time comes out man, discussion. You'll get a replica right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18262	No, this is the first time
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18263	The next time you go out for a pay phone, he didn't say anything. You know. Please, Mr. Lagumdžija, let's get serious. Please, you'll get the word, just tell me why you're looking for the word. And you can qualify me any way you want, but this is how it's gonna be for you while I run this house, because that's how it is for the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Raguž. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18264	I've been told by many that I'm impatient, but I've changed. For the first time I've spoken to Zlatko, and I respect the president, and I ask for a word when he announces me. So, I personally welcome, I would say the correctness of the Council of Ministers' Presidents to inform us a little bit about this and I really think that this is a way of communication that we all need to practice together. But obviously beyond that title as we've defined, that's the state of the Council of Ministers, this goes a little bit wider. Well, since it's wider and it's deeper on all sides, a few words should be said because of the overall correctness. The first thing we can generally welcome once again this willingness to take responsibility for the OHR. But there have been many occasions and concrete appointment decisions, and in particular some legislative projects where there was really room for us to make a step towards the international community, to narrow down its space and together to speed up these reforms and the future of Bosnia and Herzegovina. And now I could count a lot of things here. I won't. Another thing, at that time, until those occasions were used for what happened to us. Today is the third time the defacto crisis of the Council of Ministers. So there's a parallel hypertrophy of our institutions. At least there, I won't say now responsible, or I don't want to focus at all on the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, but on all of us in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are shared responsibilities. And that's where Parliament is at the top. Why am I saying this? We may have had a few months after the constitution to request early elections, then, remember. So we had the signatures of a few 14 MPs for the Council of Ministers' shift. So we had a request from the chairman of the Council of Ministers for Resolution. So we had the resignation of Mladen Ivanić once. This thing with Mladen Ivanić is taking a really long time. With all due respect to Mladen Ivanić. It's taking a long time, and I'm afraid that in this whole spectrum of these issues that I've raised, we haven't come to the essence of the problem yet. And the bottom line is whether we have an assessment where we are and as a parliamentary majority, and the opposition has the same responsibility, because we signed that statement together on the European road, where we came from. And what Nikola says is that in front of the voters, we all put a mandate at our disposal. Have we realized what we announced? If we're not who's responsible for it. Are we all responsible? Whether they are individual parties, whether they are individual ministers, whether they are individual representatives. And that would be a serious story. I personally believe, I once said this to Mr. Terzić here, perhaps we got it all wrong, but I think that we can understand the Council of Ministers as an institution, not him personally as president, without the instruments adequate to overcome this crisis right now. It is not the responsibility of Adnan Terzić, it is the responsibility of all of us. And an even greater responsibility of the Office of the High Representative because we had the announcement by Mr. Eždaun in promoting him in Parliament that, in parallel with his arrival, he would reduce the role of the international community, and the growth of roles and responsibility of domestic institutions, it happened exactly the opposite. A lot of arguments can be cited for that. So in this situation we can only say that all relevant parameters with all the efforts taken by the Council, entity governments, parliaments etc. They say we are the only ones in the country who currently have no partnership for peace, nor are we in a position to sign a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's the facts. It is the state of our European path and the future of this country. And secondly, it means other relevant factors, economic, social, financial, and 47 not to say these infrastructures and everyone else says they're just thick at the bottom of the scale. And it's not my judgment, it's the judgment of relevant institutions and organizations dealing with comparative analysis. Well, I think we as responsible people need all of us, first I here as a member of the College and everyone else to look at what's causing it. Is it possible that only the fact that we should, as Mr. Novaković says, remove the policy from the police, which I personally support. But let's get her out of here in this proposal to prepare police reform. Where the point is, the point is. And look at me, we're going to move in a very specific and sensitive case in a very sensitive position, with all due respect to the laws and expertise that needs to be realized in a simple dimension and still not to comment. So here's the thing, gentlemen, is that we've come into a crisis of responsibility. It's my determination to address this situation, not the crisis that has led to the strengthening of reforms and which I can address the extraordinary elections. No election unless there is a procedure a little more serious in this country will solve the situation and ensure this accelerated path and more quality reforms. I will therefore remind you of the resolution brought by the European Parliament a month and a half ago. I will read to you only one judgment, it is the responsibility of European parliamentarians to the situation in the region, and it is focused on one point or more on Bosnia and Herzegovina and I think it would be a time if we were to overstep parliamentary majority and early elections to really face here and to be really principled so let's say it's our orientation, let's take a step to address these serious problems and open up space and the Council of Ministers and other governments and levels until it happens that they can do quality work. The resolution says that 10 years after Dayton's signing critical political problems in this country remain unresolved. Be careful, it is the political document of the highest legislative body in Europe, that the country is seriously divided, seriously, and political stability is at stake and that new policy initiatives based on respect and consensus are necessary. That would be one fair answer in this situation and help the Council of Ministers take responsibility for these new political initiatives. I agree that these reforms have come to the wall, and I have spoken before, if you remember, and today I remain in the position that these reforms will end up on such foundations as the Motmkin village. Unfortunately, it's a great price for our people and for this country. And let's look at that criterion for a parliamentary majority, so you'll see how things are going to work much better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18265	Replica. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18266	Mr. Chairman, in order to clarify what I'm talking about, Mr. Prime Minister's chairman is at the beginning of me, we have spoken and determined that the conclusions I have proposed are in dissension. I want to make it clear to him that it would be good for you to give him the text as well as two conclusions, so he will see that they are not in dissension, and it is seen from what he himself mentioned, and he is insinuating the parliamentary commission and the obligations of the Council of Europe. In fact, Mr. Chairman, you weren't at first, when we were establishing the agenda of this second, it only refers to 48 to that in fact to the legal norm, which is now an emergency, which is the possibility, at all, the possibility of calling an emergency election, because you initiated it, and I guess you know that the existing law, although some have claimed that you don't actually know that. I believe that you know very well that the existing law does not speak, does not know the institution of emergency elections and that is precisely the reason for you to introduce that institution properly into the law. How would that be even possible if one day you really wanted an emergency election. That's one thing. And second, Mr. Chairman, I think the whole debate is going the wrong way. Here is not the question of Adnan Terzić or Mladen Ivanić, we have completely replaced the thesis here. It's not about Mladen Ivanić at all. It's about the state of the Council of Ministers, it's about a broken-down Council of Ministers institution that says it itself, sees that it can't carry out reforms and that's what it's about. The fact that Mladen was supposed to be replaced, and what he's being replaced by a creamy one, which some would say, which has been replaced in a completely mind-blowing way, is just the more reason that we're actually going back to the right topic. And the real theme is to see how an institution called the Council of Ministers will be reconstructed, how it will be placed on its right feet so that it can implement reforms and how it can be done in accordance with the country's Constitution and laws. So I would therefore ask Mr. Chairman not to hold the debate, and therefore I call on the Council of Ministers to not lead the debate straight to him or Mladen. It has nothing to do with him or the Mladen. I mean, clear as day. Or the two of them together. But that's a whole other topic. A man goes to prepare those changes and supplement the law, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18267	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić and we have Mr. Joza Križanović and we will conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18268	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here is Mr. Lagumdžija, not listening to all the discussions, of course appreciated this character and content of our discussions which is good, of course. He used the replica to discuss it one more time. So I am speaking on behalf of the Party for BiH Parliament Club and we have indeed been very concerned about the knowledge and news we have heard, primarily because of the state and functioning of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so in this case, the Council of Ministers. Of course, the business these institutions are dealing with. In this case, the Council of Ministers should therefore be the engine, that is, the force leading these reforms that have been talked about today. Personal solutions are for us at this point in the second plan, respecting respect for procedures, modes of shift, powers etc. That's what we can discuss. We're not prone to these arrangements, ala Neum, etc. And we showed it by not coming to Neum. Here's the result of that kind of deal. As far as the Party for BiH is concerned, it has begun to conduct a total analysis, hence the overall analysis and consequences, primarily again with the aspect of the state's interest, nature for the benefit of both citizens and peoples, but rather from the point of view of narrow and day-to-day political needs. We want to say another dimension at this point. 49 So, we have received another in a series of clear evidence that there is a built-in error in the bodies, therefore called dysfunction, that constitutional solutions to the structure of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institution, in this case the Council of Ministers practically bear there, this feller, this error which produces certain situations. You see this, the chairman of the Council of Ministers said that in Banja Luka, members of the Council of Ministers shared three functions among the three peoples. So executive power, executive operating power and presidency and Mladen Ivanić, I don't know what the combination is, do you understand me, but I am that expression, these are parts, these are the structures of the Council of Ministers. So the Council of Ministers is a small home to the people looks like. Furthermore, the chairman says for the first time, it happened in the Council of Ministers to chair the shift of a man from the Council of Ministers who is not from his people. You understand. So that's the first time that's happened. Like it's a sensation, an event, which is normally everywhere in the world where the criteria work, not work, etc. So, to conclude, our position is that, unfortunately, there is no Mr. Terzić, he should first answer us whether he has an exit strategy from the situation he produced by his decision, which would be logical to know what the next step is. He suggested something, he called as if, to support him to speak to the Republika Srpska parties. We think that this moment, or already should have opened a parliamentary dialogue, not only what Mr. Lozančić was talking about, not only the party in the position, but also the opposition, of course, those who have interests and estimates that they should participate in this. And after that dialogue and political parties' views, we will be able to resolve something eventually. At this point, we are not convinced that some solutions are offered, at this time of the vote, etc. I can solve the situation. Here, these are about our views as many of them as possible in such a short time in this emerging situation, after the information we received from the debate, many things we didn't know were possible to spark.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18269	I thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Novaković had a replica. Wait, is it a replica? No, isn't it a replica? Then wait until he has a hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18270	Wait a minute, I'm sorry. Look what it's all about. I wanted to suggest, or I guess there's going to be a break, if not, then I'm going to ask, that the proposals for the conclusions before the break are made so that we can take a break, assuming that it's a very sensitive topic, so that we can read the full conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18271	All right, thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Discussion. Here you go. And then we don't have any more charges to argue with. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18272	I thank Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, since many colleagues have already spoken, I will indeed be very brief. I would like to say that the essence of this House's request to be included today in the agenda of the Council of Ministers' Presidency on the problems of the Council of Ministers' functioning in the context of the resignation of a number of ministers and announced resignations, and therefore this is the topic of the problem of the functioning of the most executive government in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Of course, this inevitably implies certain references to the state of the country that was also there. However, I would like to say that this crisis, that this crisis is actually nothing new, that we have so far had a very, very many crises in the functioning of a particularly executive government at all levels from the municipalities to the Council of Ministers. And the result, of course, of this functioning, of these crises, we have the condition that we have, the way we have it. We're far from the Partnership for Peace, we're far from signing a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we have the economic situation, and we have the social status that we have. However, here I would still like to propose with one good intention: - it should not be possible today to complete this session in an undefined way. The cilje were to show full responsibility and seriousness to a very serious problem, which is the functioning of the executive government in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers, and to show willingness to help the Council of Ministers get out of this situation at this time. And so I ask my colleagues, especially from parliamentary heights, not to part ways today, without sending one message to the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina that this is a crisis, but that this parliament is able to help the Council of Ministers to establish and start working. The worst, worst message could be that today, after this session and these discussions, nothing happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18273	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since there are no more requests for discussion, I am concluding the debate, so I am closing the debate. We had a hint here from the president of the SDS Club for a break, which I understood. Please nice we're here by now, please notify it just so. Some of us got in writing, some of us didn't get in writing, but were told at the pay phone, got the following suggestions, so according to chronology, I'll go. The first proposals were delivered by Mr Lagumdžija. The proposal therefore concludes 1. That the House of Representatives calls on the Council of Ministers to resign and 51 2. The Council of Ministers will prepare within a reasonable period of 7 days, to request that changes be prepared and supplemented by an electoral law that would define the procedure for organising early elections. If I read the text correctly. And then we got, so these are the two conclusions. This can be multiplied, divided by MPs, because it's written, of course. Dr. Crescent. Kunić suggested the conclusion, as written here, that - the chairman of the Council of Ministers repeal the decision to appoint the secretary of the ministry, replace the minister, because it is contrary to Article 6. The Council of Ministers Act. So that's the proposal. And let it be multiplied and divided among the messengers. Then we have more suggestions that have been presented here in oral form. If I understood the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers for Speakers, he suggested, or suggested that, firstly, he said that he did not expect anything from Parliament or ask for it. So you don't have a suggestion of conclusions. All right. I'm sorry, but then I made a mistake. I give up. And so we have a proposal that stems from Mr. Beriz Belkić's debate, which is -- that today there are not enough elements to declare and formulate these serious conclusions, that he suggests that the predstavnički of Representatives actually suggest that the political parties they make, which are participating here in Parliament to carry out mutual talks and to propose certain solutions which would naturally be the subject of debate here in Parliament again. If I understand you well, Mr. Belkić, that's your suggestion. And that's all I recorded. Okay, please. Mr. Jozo Križanović suggests that we put this all on, please, today. What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18274	I propose that today's parliamentary majority be manifested towards this problem and that it support the Council of Ministers and ask the Council of Ministers to complete the Council of Ministers in the shortest time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18275	Okay. And that's the suggestion. Write that down, then, and we'll talk about it. Please write down the proposal. Wait a minute. Keep going. Mrs. Jelina Đurković. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18276	When it comes to Mr Kunić, the conclusion is to repeal the decision to appoint a secretary as acting foreign minister. I mean, that's one thing. And the second cannot, therefore, be complemented by the annulment of the decision to appoint deputies according to the legal interpretation of OHR Minister Dokić should remain in the technical mandate until the election of a new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18277	What do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18278	I suggest we cancel out that part, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18279	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18280	A decision by the deputy minister to perform the duty of the minister of civil, how, traffic and communication. So Dokić remains in the technical mandate according to OHR's legal opinion. It's a supplement. And secondly, I suggest that we actually vote to change the chairman's council of ministers, because he obviously doesn't rule the situation. It just doesn't have the capacity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18281	That's what Mr Lagumdžija suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18282	To rule the one, the one institution, the one that needs to rule.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18284	The Rules of Procedure know the possibility of what is said here, which is that a club of MPs or a number of MPs launch an initiative for the shift and there is a business procedure that lasts for 20 to 30 days and we did not ask for that. My conclusion was to call today on the chairman of the Council of Ministers to resign which he does not commit, except in normal countries and that we are practically reading ourselves today through this conclusion who is in fact the one who supports it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18285	Okay. We understood each other. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18286	There's a huge difference between these two. You know that well.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18287	I understand what you're proposing and I know what the procedure is. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18288	Thank you. What I was going to say. I think you're quite correct about this conclusion, but there's something else I'd like to say that's anti-legislative, and it's done in this House. There's no acting officer. Do you have the law to have an employee somewhere?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18289	We've closed the debate, Mr. Kunić. Do you have any conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18290	Don't say that. I'm talking about law enforcement now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18291	Let's talk about the conclusions. We were talking about a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18292	These are important things. There are no officers anywhere. Please, there's no institute. I'm asking you to clear this up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18293	Please. All right. So here's the deal. You've heard all the suggestions here. I'm taking a 60-minute break now. After a break, let him have lunch for this time. The clock of time is a break. Have lunch at that time, consult and we'll be here at 2:30. Please. You'll get what's written. What's not written can't even be written. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. [[PAUZA]] Break time's up 10 minutes ago. So the debate is closed. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs, we therefore had several concrete proposals during the debate that I tried to repeat before the debate was concluded and before going on a break, but there were several discussions that did not actually offer any conclusions in this situation, believing that we were still unable to reach some, I would say more concrete conclusions on this topic. 54 There was also one proposal by Mr. Beriz Belkić in front of the Party for BiH and here on the trail of this proposal and on the trail of these proposals that are necessary to carry out some additional consultations, I believe that at this moment it would be best to open this political dialogue of the political parties that form the structure of this Parliament and I think that it would most correctly be, if the House of Representatives today ended this debate in such a way that the information of the Council of Ministers would be taken into account and entrusted, as the second conclusion of the Council of Ministers' Presidency to carry out consultations, so consultations with political parties positioned here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives to overcome the current situation in the Council of Ministers, and then informed this House of Representatives. And here I suggest we end this debate this way. I'd like to ask my colleagues, if that's possible, to withdraw the suggestions of these conclusions. If it is not possible then of course I will put the proposals of these conclusions to the vote. But first of all, I'd like to put to the vote a proposal of this conclusion that doesn't really define anything concrete. It therefore opens up all the possibilities of this which you spoke of, and its essence is therefore consultation with political parties and overcoming the situation that we now have in the Council of Ministers. I've already got a few speakers reporting for word. Mr. Gligorić answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18294	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, regarding your first proposal proposed by Mr. Belkić, in the sense that Parliament concludes that a parallel one party debate is being opened in order to find a solution. I would like because of the integrity of this body that we should not be as a legislative body, it is known what is the primary competence of this Parliament to engage and to make this Parliament a political forum that will address the crisis in the Council of Ministers. I think it is not correct, it is not professional, I think that we are dragging Parliament into something that represents an exclusive party policy or something that represents a policy that should do what is a party's duty and I think that Parliament, asking for Parliament to enter into the role of party activities that are known to be being led, I would still pray that this proposal would not be correct in terms of how power is being formed, how institutions are formed, and in this way we should leave it to the law, and not that we take over the role of political parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina, without distinction whether it is a position and opposition. We can't fall into that trap. That's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18295	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Just because I know what the Council of Ministers Act predicts, I have also suggested this and this is on the trail of what is written in the Council of Ministers Act, and of course you can read the Law again and see if I am right or wrong. 55 Next, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18296	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've paused and called for clubs to consult on the conclusions that have been shared. I would therefore ask, do not deny you the right to suggest new conclusions, especially as chairman. I would only ask you to make clear of the conclusions on the order in which they are proposed, so I would ask you, therefore I am not withdrawing, on the contrary, that it is important that the House declares itself and determines the conclusions that have been shared, and it would be good for us to declare these conclusions which are before us that you give us this conclusion in writing, thus saying that the parties that are positioned in Parliament should be consulted, so that in itself there are two interpretations. The parties that are even positioned and exist in Parliament and the second conclusion is those who are in place. So in order to remove these minor inconsistencies, he would just ask that your two conclusions be made to give us that we can read them nicely, to make them known, as you have rightly forced us to write our conclusions for you. And so, I agree that we'll get to the bottom of it, but it's fine with the way things are going around the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18297	Okay. We'll glasati first on the proposal of the chairman, Mr Lagumdžija. I'm trying to unite this discussion and I haven't said anything that's contrary to any conclusion here that's been made. It is simply a matter of time left for dialogue and of course this applies, this proposal concerns all parliamentary parties positioned in Parliament here. All parliamentary parties. Mr. Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18298	First, I must say that the conclusion of Mr Belkić, which we do not have in front of us, is also logical for me, and I cannot accept Mr Gligorić's reasons for why this political party, which is why the House of Representatives cannot suggest to political parties that they consult. After all, any Council of Ministers, whether this or the future will be the result of some political agreements and some congregational majority. That's one thing. Secondly, I think it is the chairman, if I can interpret what I heard put the opposite of the conclusion proposed by Mr. Belkić with some other conclusions here, and I don't think so. I don't think that conclusion excludes any of the conclusions that are given here. So whether there will be political agreements or not is not contrary to some conclusions here and therefore should not be seen in this regard. So he can be just one of the conclusions that doesn't rule out most, I have to tell these other conclusions that are ahead of us. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18299	Thank you. Mr. Križanovi, then Mr. Avdić, then Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18300	I would just like to remind us, if I'm correct, that today's debate on this item of the agenda was intended to express both the dissatisfaction and concern about the functioning of the Council of Ministers. And if we would end this only by receiving information, oral information from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and we are determined by the problem that the parliamentary majority, i.e. the parties that make up the parliamentary majority, agree to overcome it, without any obligations and deadlines, I think these two three hours that we have discussed on this subject are lost time. And that's why I'd suggest joining the vote anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18301	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mr. Špirić prepare himself. After that, Mr. Nizaj Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18302	Well, I can only say we're sitting 24 hours after the press conference and the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here will be brave from this home through one session that lasted three hours on this agenda point, this is how the agenda ends. Which means I fully support and I am on the trail of the proposal, that is, the conclusion proposed by my colleague Belkić, in order to consider these other conclusions relevant which came from the discussion, but in this way I would model. It means that we vote today on Mr Belkić's proposal and give 15 days to the Council of Ministers' chairman to harmonize and allow for the continuity of the Council of Ministers' activities. In the event of the opposite and further blockade of the Council of Ministers, these conclusions shall be activated immediately at the first next session and voted on all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18303	Thank you. Mr. Špirić, after that, Mr. Duraković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18304	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, we are the only one who will repeat this country in Europe and in the world that will allow the Council of Ministers' crisis to rise in the crisis of Parliament. But that's what he's saying today about us. Don't say anything about the Council of Ministers, not ugly or good. 57 This conclusion that is offered is the same as when a patient with a temperature of 40 says you should go to a doctor. But that's all a fool has to say. I think this is a smarter Council of Ministers that doesn't deserve such a barren conclusion. So I just don't know the name of a man with a fever of 40, and we say you have to go to a doctor. I guess he knows that much. I guess they know we need to open a dialogue and talk. So Parliament doesn't tell them. It's their constant task. What is this Parliament's conclusion? Whose interest is he in? And I don't know where the break came from, and I mean it's really becoming, I have to say that there are MPs, dear people to me, and I'd like to know what their attitude is than to give me God. I'm listening to Sead Avdić's discussion in the morning and now he realizes after the break that this is good and I can't be surprised and he won't mind Sejo. Because this one, I'm asking you really not to mind me, because your discussion, I've quoted it, and that's why I'm sorry. She's 180 degrees different from what you're proposing right now. So, I'm just asking that the conclusions go, but it's still order. I will have my own position on every conclusion and, of course, the majority of those who have the parliamentary majority will get the parliamentary majority. I will respect him because I respect this home. And we'll all tell ourselves what we're thinking after this debate, but don't just repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18305	Please, I'll say it first. So, Mr. Špirić, if we're talking about a 40-degree patient, then we need to think carefully about what kind of therapy and what to do. I'm afraid you don't know the poison. That's the problem and not to make the problem complete. That's what I'm running from, and I don't think that comparison stands for you. Please, nice. We still have Mr. Duraković, he answered his word. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18306	Here's to reminding you that my friend Špirić said that the nonsens or that the crisis of the Council of Ministers came from the crisis of Parliament. On the contrary, I think it's the other way around and it's radically the other way around. This parliament has been in crisis ever since the beginning. I have spoken of it many times, but in a crisis it is only by the fact that it has agreed that the government, the real power of execution, has been removed from this parliament, although it is by definition the Supreme Legislative Authority of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Unfortunately, the government has been pumped out of this parliament and is located in the headquarters of the ruling political parties. They have been in crisis since the beginning and then Parliament itself is in crisis, and then the Council of Ministers is in crisis. Because the Council of Ministers can allow itself to behave in one way or another, to stall, to draw cheap compromise moves, to work one way or another, because it has the approval of its political commanders who are in the form of lobbys or headquarters of ruling political parties. And that's the fundamental problem of this society and this country. That's what I mean to anyone who looks at them analytically, absolutely clear. When a colleague Gligorić says – so we cannot enter a position to count ourselves here by party, etc. Let me, in rare cases, agree with Novaković, so this parliament is made up of representatives of different political parties and, of course, in the 58th spirit of what Mr Belkić has proposed, should we give the possibility if we want to get out of the Council of Ministers' crisis, to give the prime minister or chairman of the Council to Mr Terzić to carry out a political consultation with all parties, I would say neither to the positional nor to the other parties that make up this parliament. And ultimately, all Srbin must come from the SDA, SDS or Hrvat of HDZ or Bošnjak from the SDA. We have other parties here. So open up a maneuvering space to overcome the obvious crisis by a political consultation that would be desirable and would be on our way to overcoming this situation where we are. In so much support Joza Križanović's proposal, the first point, by the way, that I think it's a small 7-day deadline. Maybe give 15 days and then finally put it on the agenda and not include other proposals for Parliament to declare on the agenda for the proposal, as presented by Mr Belkić. I think we'd do half the work, and then the proposals go as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18307	Thank you very much. So that's absolutely what I was thinking when I was talking about. So the basis is Mr. Belkić's proposal and he's just as defined by me as you said. It is not only the parliamentary majority, but the political parties positioned in this parliament, and every political party that has received the mandate has been positioned. So all the political parties in this House. And that's quite clear. Mr. Sead Avdić has a short need for replication and Mr. Gligorić, so let's go to a statement. And Mrs. Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18308	I'm just asking that this parliament not turn into one naked without a scened struggle for power. I don't want to. I'm trying to simply enable this country to function until the 2006 October election. Are we really capable of fellow Špirić 24 hours after a shocking statement by the chairman of the Council of Ministers to replace the foreign minister, take all relevant facts into account and vote in favour of the Council of Ministers and to remain without a simple Council of Ministers and without a chairman, etc. etc. Is it really an expression of the seriousness of the cold heads of this House, or is it really an expression of simple desires and struggles for power and early elections? Which means, don't let us be convinced about this, let's try to be extremely serious and simply, I repeat once again, how not to vote on my fellow Beriz' conclusion, and I remain on this simply for 15 days, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers, parliamentary parties that make up the parliamentary majority do not establish the continuity of the Council of Ministers' functioning that, according to all these conclusions, one vote at a time is taxed. It doesn't have a dilemma at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18309	Okay. Thank you. Sir, don't, Nikola. You'll get your word. Mr. Špirić now, then Gligorić, then Mr. Lagumdžija. No problem. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18310	Short of course. I have no intention that my discussion is not on the line of battle for power. I don't mind any conclusions or MPs that, any conclusion. I'm begging you, I just think it's incorrect. We can't lose the Council of Ministers, Sejo, under any law. It's due in a technical mandate to work. He's not the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so he loses his flock and goes home, and he doesn't care about the hat. The responsibility is to work until a new one is chosen. And I didn't even advocate resigning. Well, I have to, so please, someone who wants to obey the law, but you're already dreaming while someone like invites that Parliament to work you think right away he'll disappoint so it won't work. Such is the state of you, among other things, that you change attitudes. One afternoon, one afternoon, the other.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18311	Okay. Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18312	Thank you very much. The wrong allegation is that, all of you, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Novaković, including Mr. Duraković, were involved when you said it was defined by law and that political parties were elected by the Council of Ministers, etc. go into their coordination, etc. That's true. But this is where Parliament needs to be fooled in another way. So that's the legal part, the public part that every democratic country does, and you're here using Parliament to make secret arrangements, and I've already accused Mr. Chairman of when I discussed it today, so he didn't want to say it, and I know that it is on stage, and now, on a small door, I need to give this Parliament legitimacy to their secret arrangements and cover them. I don't want to participate in that farce and it's nice to hear people from the opposition and Party for BiH and Mr. Duraković and you're all talking nice, but in the end it remains that nothing happens, and in the end it will wait for us to chair always, intelligently, it's not a problem, let the opposition be told, it goes everything, and it ultimately defines a conclusion that doesn't really mean anything and cheating on this parliament. If you'd like gentlemen to attend to your bow tie, or through your eyes, or through the door anyway. I don't want any part of it. This is one big scam. It means in this House that at the small door of secret agreements they should be legalised by Parliament as a binding conclusion. Oh, no, you don't. Therefore, these are the dirty jobs that have risen and completely Professor Špirić is right from the Council of Ministers to raise you here and it is known that one intelligence officer has made this plan and these secret arrangements to do something. I just want to say that I can't be part of that scam. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18313	Okay. You don't have to. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18314	Mr. Chairman, since I respect the suggestions... and his discussions before the break and the suggestions after the break, this proposal of 15 days later means that whoever suggested the conclusion agrees. So I would ask you to behave exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and not make a procedural thing different than it is. We can declare this request in 15 days, but I insist that you make your statement today on these conclusions whenever you want, after whichever vote you want, although I think it would be normal for it to go in the order proposed, which is more than the conclusion that counterpart Križanović has proposed is consistently following these conclusions that I wrote, because we have reached a conclusion by Mr Križanović who is practically interesting if any of our conclusions fail, so we are now pushing you to the stairs below. So I would ask you to make sure that, according to the Rules of Procedure, we make sure that the conclusions we had, and now that it became perfectly clear that this game was agreed between Mr. Terzić and the SDS, that. That's what you'll see after this vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18315	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate, and I apologize, ma'am, I apologize. I called you back. Here you go, Mrs. Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18316	Thank you. I cannot, Mr. Chairman, accept your conclusion, simply because if we were to say we would like to know the presentation of Mr. Chairman's Council of Ministers, it would mean that we would accept all the illogicalness and illegality that Mr. Chairman has done only yesterday. Therefore, I cannot accept it. And here we've also heard that there's been a bypass and illegal decision-making and so-called move. Byaith, imagine you accepted your resignation. That's a fairy tale. That's rude. You know. It's simply to avoid discussing the minister's resolution here. When that happens, it'll have to happen. So, the resolved minister must come here, his resolution must come here. And that's why I just can't say that, and when this resignation breaks out as something that's illegally used. That's one thing. Second. This isn't about fighting for power. This is about fighting for legality. If we don't take care that we have to be, that we have to take care of the law, and what I say, we have to be transparent, is a word I don't like, but here's why we all recognize it with its meaning, so I'm going to use it. And then those conclusions just lead to support for the parallelism of decision-making. So one's here, and the other one's out there on the green sofa or something. etc. So I can't accept that. So I suggest that, in the order that we have defined our conclusions, we declare them. Thank you. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18317	I thank Mrs. Đurković. So, respected colleagues and colleagues, essentially, did you ask for a word? Here you go. Mr. Terzić, chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18318	I don't want to complicate it, just to tell Mrs. Đurković. Mladen Ivanić resigned to me. It's not this Parliament. Therefore, this parliament cannot be determined according to the resignations of Mladen Ivanić. Maybe he was wrong. But this Parliament can't. Mladen Ivanić is, Mladen Ivanić is accepted as resignation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18319	Okay. You're right, Mrs. Đurković. Replica. Here you go. I thank Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18320	The resignation was made in a moment, actually seven months ago quite another occasion. The resignation was orally withdrawn, and now this is, not to say what kind of attitude. So it can't last, it can't last forever. Then finally this resignation, which was offered to the Presidency, would also be de facto. But I don't see why it would be current. She was valid at one point. The story of that resignation is over, and there's no more talk of resignation. You can only relieve the minister and here at Parliament to confirm that. Let's get this straight sometime. I can't agree with everyone, that's not the answer for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18321	I thank Mrs. Đurković. Mr. Novaković is back again, and here we come back for the word. We're just opening up, as it's called, we can drive a train like this by morning, it's no problem at all, but we've got work to do, 17 more points. We didn't even start a session planned. Please. I don't know what's more important to you, sir, this sir what's his name. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18322	I'm just trying to chair the sooner we finish this agenda. I beg you, I have no conclusion in mind that the resignation of Mladen Ivanić is withdrawn. I don't have that conclusion. If anyone has one, I wish I had one, if I knew what I was going to vote on. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18323	No, there isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18324	I'm begging you. So, I have the conclusion that Mrs. Jeline concludes that the chairman annuls the decision that the deputy minister of communication replaces the minister. I have the conclusion, two conclusions from Mr Lagumdžija and I have two conclusions from Mr Križanović and I have one conclusion from Mr Kunić. These are the conclusions I have ahead of me. If we're going to make any other conclusions, of course I have this oral one, as Mr. Belkić said. And if anyone else has any, I'm asking to have them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18325	That's it. Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, but please briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18326	I'll take a minute. The guilty allegation is that Mr. Chairman came out now and said about his resignation and colleague Jelina when she spoke about the new situation, I think Parliament should know how the new minister is elected, and until then it should only take note that the ministers means Mr. Dokić and Mr. Ivanić are doing their duty until the next two ministers and points are elected. It's just to be accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18327	Okay. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please kindly, therefore, the proposal of Mr Belkić's conclusion, which I have tried to specify which Dr. Duraković, therefore, in his discussion, which is, therefore, that we know what we will vote on so now that, please, this is already 100 times said, that is one sentence. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requests that the Council of Ministers be consulted by political parties from the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina to overcome the current situation in the Council of Ministers. And that's the suggestion of a conclusion and we're just talking about what it's called. I ask you to prepare yourself and vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote, vote now. - 22 for, 9 against, 3 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted this conclusion. Let's move on to conclusions. Yes, you can. Don't ask me that again. You can do it. You're looking over there from the service. 63 Please make a good conclusion, please, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's number one conclusion. The conclusion of the 1st Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija reads: - The House of Representatives calls on the Council of Ministers to resign. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 15 for, 17 against. Conclusion, five abstentions. Don't, Mr. Lagumdžija. The conclusion didn't get the required majority. You can take the listing. What's his name? Let's go to Mr. Lagumdžija's second conclusion. The Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing within 7 days amendments and supplementing the electoral law, which would define procedures for organising early elections. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 7 for, 22 against, 8 abstentions. The conclusion did not receive the necessary support. Let's go to Dr. Webbs's proposal. Kunića, at the proposal of Dr. Kunic. So the chairman of the Council of Ministers annuls the decision to appoint the ministry's secretary, the deputy, to replace the minister of military affairs, because it is contrary to Article 6. The Council of Ministers Act. Here you go. What's the supplement now? We went to the vote. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18328	There was a later proposal, but I don't think it's clear enough. So, in accepting his resignation, the minister continues to work until the election of the new minister, as there is no acting or deputy minister. The deputy minister cannot carry out the minister's duties and it stands in the law until the new one is elected. So it remains old until the technical term until the election of a new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18329	It's a suggestion of your conclusion, supplemental.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18330	Please. It's in accordance with the law. You have an interpretation So, you suggest that a decision be repealed on the appointment of the secretary of the ministry as acting minister and 64 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18332	And the minister, whose resignation was accepted, continues to perform his duty until the appointment of a new minister. The rest is legal. Please, what the man is proposing now. You vote later. Read again what you suggest the conclusion. Don't let me define that for you. Please stand up Kunić, so suggest. Please read the text of the complete conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18333	I speak from my head, I don't read from this one. So, at the time of the resignation of the minister, the minister, or by accepting his resignation, remains on duty until the election of the new minister. It's not supposed to be a conclusion, it's a normal thing, but here it should seem a conclusion. And the chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot appoint a deputy secretary, nor can the deputy replace the minister, under the Council of Ministers Act. I ask that the Council of Ministers be applied and that all decisions taken that are contrary to the Council of Ministers be annulled. Here, that's clear now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18334	That's your conclusion, too. Okay. I'm putting in a proposal for this, do you understand what you're voting on right now? Watch this. Well, of course it's not clear. That's the joke. Please nice, please nice, please. Please. Mr. Kunić, I would ask you to accurately dictate the text of your conclusion that we will vote to know about. What you say now is what we'll vote on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18335	So, that the President of the Council of Ministers, when accepting the resignation of ministers, adheres to the Council of Ministers Act. So that it adheres to the Council of Ministers Act, that ministers remain in office until the election of a new minister and that it annuls all decisions on the appointment of the secretary as acting ministers. There's no acting officer. Is that clear now?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18336	Here you go. Mr. Belkić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18337	...means in one area, or one situation that we're trying to figure out how to interpret the law and to give instructions, etc. If we have noticed and determined, and there seems to be no doubt that a mistake has been made in the appointment of Secretary V.D., I would suggest that Parliament invites the Chairman of the Council of Ministers to all that is beyond the Council of Ministers' Law to warn you to withdraw and put out of force, and the rest of the actions you do in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law. And nothing more or less. No more or less. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18338	Kunić suggested the conclusion, let's make it clear that people do not open the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18339	Mrs. Palavrić. Wait, you'll get it. Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18340	Look, first of all, I didn't break the Council of Ministers Act. Secondly, I don't think it's a good idea for this home to make me have, to work with people who are in the technical mandate. I need a quick and efficient Council of Ministers. One reason, since we don't have a deputy to communicate so quickly and efficiently, I've accepted my resignation. You can't make me drag someone into a technical term for the next few months. Last year, I resolved the foreign trade and economic relations minister's duties to Ms. Mila Gagić at her request. And in that same solution, I wrote, based on the Council of Ministers' Act, to hand over duty to the deputy minister. And no one has ever made a problem about it, is because the deputy minister was Mr. Tošić and he belonged to a nation. It could be. And so it's been published in the Official Journal and no one's ever had a problem with that. I agree that you are voting on this conclusion as Mr. Kunić said, but as he wrote it, but not now you are questioning whether I did it by law or not. So I followed Mr. Kunić's discussion closely, and I agree that there may be room for Parliament to give its opinion. But I'm also undermining that you're leaving people to work in a hostage mandate and we're continuing our mind-savings again. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18341	Mr. Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18342	I'm sorry we got into a situation where in our conclusions exactly because we don't have them precise. Then we interpret each other and vary from one conclusion to another. To reach a conclusion that he says - the president of the Council of Ministers must act in accordance with the law is a completely pointless conclusion. So it would really be a little bit much to conclude that a man has to work by law. Also, why can't I vote for Mr. Kunić's conclusion? Because the first part of the conclusion I accept and the difference is Mr. Terzić, we're serious people, we've done similar jobs in life, at least in this building. Namely, you when you appointed the Deputy Minister to replace Dr. Gagić, then it was again in line with the Council of Ministers' conclusion because she was the deputy minister. But now this is a completely different situation, because you now unfortunately don't have, or fortunately, it doesn't matter, but you suddenly don't have a date now, and then you can't do the same chronology. 66 What is evident is that it has been done, and better for you to withdraw it than for us to call you here, I would accept Mr Kunić's conclusion that the chairman of the Council of Ministers annuls the decision to appoint the secretary of the ministry for V.D. Minister, because it simply doesn't comply with the law, yes. The mistake was made. You'd better say you made a mistake and we'll move on. And then you keep doing everything by the law. If you accept that. The problem here is that one day a civil servant was brought into a position to be appointed V.D. practically a minister which is not in accordance with either Article 7 or Article 14. The Council of Ministers Act you called for.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18343	Okay. We understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18344	Pull it, it's better.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18345	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić, wait a minute. Please, you can't see who answered. I can see better from here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18346	I ask you to consider the conclusions, the suggestions for conclusions that are ahead of us. Many of them ask us to actually reach a verdict, and we do not have enough arguments, starting with whether the High Representative could permanently appoint the director of the SIP, starting with whether the prime minister could accept the resignation seven months after it was submitted, starting with whether he could determine that v.d. The secretary of the ministry becomes V.D. The minister and begin with the fact that the deputy minister should be appointed to replace the minister. So in all these cases, I ask you to draw a conclusion that will oblige the Council of Ministers, or the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, to provide an argument for which something is in accordance with the relevant law, or regulation, or not, and that everything that is not in accordance with the positive right of the Prime Minister's chairman in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18347	Go ahead. Thank you, Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18348	It's very simple. This is the conclusion that needs to be made and he solves everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18349	Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18350	The decision to appoint a V.D. shall be annulled. Ministers. And then you solve Article 6, that national representation, etc. But former ministers remain until the election of new ministers. Therefore, this 67 conclusion annuls all appointment decisions V.D. Ministers, solve and Article 6. He's, uh, more like it's immaterial. So, just this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18351	It's now a definitive conclusion text.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18352	It is definitive, therefore, repealing the decision to appoint V.D. Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18353	Which one?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18354	Who are appointed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18356	Thank you very much. Wrong quote. Mr. Terzić said, I'd like him to hear this, at the pay phone -- I've done everything legally. This Parliament has established, at least for one part, that you have not acted according to the law. I think this proposal was made by Professor... Kunić solves the problem, and I think he is quite clear, that you should annul your decision where you made for two deputies to perform, or that secretary to be ministers, that ministers under the Council of Ministers' Law remain to work until the killing of new ones, or if someone should already give an interpretation, then this parliament that passed the law should be given, rather than chairing the interpretation of the law because it has already broken. On many occasions, we've observed it. And I think he's a professor. Kunić has made it perfectly clear now and we will return to the legal frameworks and there is no right for anyone to suspend any provision and the whole law on the Council of Ministers and Ministries. We have to be principled people. There's no political interest. This is a Parliament that must respect the laws.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18357	Thank you. Mr. Terzić is looking for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18358	So, Mr. Gligorić, it's really very difficult in one dignified way to accept everything you're capable of falsely expressing. Who has determined that the chairman has made an illegal shop in our solution? WHO have established in the decisions that I have signed? You say this Parliament has determined that at least a few illegal acts have been made. Who? It's a purely casual decision of yours to just mess up the situation. 68 So I've come up with solutions under the Council of Ministers Act. The Council of Ministers law does not say that the secretary cannot, that the minister cannot hand over his duty to the secretary. He doesn't say. And he doesn't say he can. So I didn't break the law, I used the legal vacuum. I need the following – so I need the following, I don't need the gentlemen, if you need to vote, I don't need the performers and in the technical mandate, I don't need ministers in the technical mandate, I'm sorry. I don't need that. It's for the next time I've had my mind out. It's my retrieval of the individual parties of the current parliamentary majority to sit down and honor the conclusion you said. To go see them and talk. When they have the technical mandate of ministers, why would they sit with me? And you will, if you support these conclusions, allow it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18359	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18360	It is not true that the solutions are written against the Council of Ministers Act.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18361	Okay. All right. Thank you. Mr. Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18362	I'm begging you and I'm thinking that we really need to bring this discussion to an end, but I've called to rephrase the chairman. I've heard what he needs already. Please, gentlemen, you don't do what the chairman needs to do here. So here is a much more complex question than that, and the Council of Ministers is no one else's nor the chairman. more than anyone. So please, I suggest that the proposal that Mr. Kunić has, as well as everyone else, be put to the vote, pass not passed, we move on and finish the agenda. Does anyone like that? That's another question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18363	Okay. All right, thank you. Mr. Kunić. Here you go. You'll get Gligorić's word again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18364	I'm really sorry. In the meantime, I have received the legal opinion of the OHR on the issue which confirms this position of mine. You can take it and read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18365	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18366	It's a long time to read. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18367	Just for a minute, Mr. Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18368	Thank you. When it comes to the OHR with which you have good relations and you should have and respect everything they say, they told ministers under the resignation to say and the minister in resignation should remain in office until his successor's confirmation by the House of Representatives. Yes, and I say, you've been saying this the whole time, three times you've lost my minister's advice. The council of ministers is Bosnia and Herzegovina, not yours. Second, when we talk about technicals, I apologize, as if it were the end of the world. Well, there are technical governments, Mr. Chairman. You don't want a government like that. Well, tomorrow, they'll vote you in a month of mistrust and you'll all be in a technical term, all of you. And you can't leave it. So today if we vote no confidence in you means you have to work in a technical mandate, you can't leave the chair seat. You have to work. Therefore, it is a technical mandate. Whether it's one man, two, or the entire Council of Ministers, or a government in a democratic country. That's a fact, you have to appreciate that. You can't give such a flat rate in terms of technical mandate, and tomorrow you'll be like a collective body in a technical mandate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18369	Okay. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18370	And please, here I am now asking that all the decisions that she has made, which were made by the chairman of the delivery to the MPs, and to assign to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, given the interpretation of the provisions that she has the right to make in the matter of the Constitution and the law that we have made, because this Parliament has only the right to interpret the law that has been passed, not the executive authority, and thus to determine in the commission whether the gentleman has sinned when he says that he is not and of course I who say he is. Let the official committee of this House determine that. And then it'll be fair, right, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18371	Thank you. All right, thank you. Please, we're moving on to a plea. Mr. Kunić defined his conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18372	I allow, I'm not a lawyer, but to undo a part of my solution, I don't know how it can. So, I again underline how the House of Representatives can sign, cancel under what law, on what legal act can the House of Representatives undo the solution I have made? So, I'm going back to what Mr. Kunić suggested in writing. To call me House of Representatives to see if I had the right to swear to the secretary. That's fine. And this is all that's left of it, let alone undo my decision with something that I have signed 70. If you're right, fine, but I don't think you do. I even think Zlatko knows you don't, but he won't tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18373	Thank you. So like this, I think that, please, therefore, the House of Representatives cannot, of course, have no right to annul these individual acts brought by the Council of Ministers, chaired by the Council of Ministers, in particular it does not have the right to do so. So, what's it called, ad hoc, until it's what it's called, it's what it's called, and it's what it's called, and it's what it's called, and it's how it's seen things are and it's how they are. However, I am leading the session here, I am obliged to warn, I was going to say this anyway, and that the chairman did not report before putting it to the vote, but the MP insists that something be put to the vote, here he is looking for a word again, so let's see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18374	I agree with Mr. Terzić that the House of Representatives can't formally annul your individual act. It's a second procedure. But you are responsible to this House politically. I think this Parliament has given you the confidence to run the executive power and it would be very unfortunate for me if you didn't withdraw a decision that was clearly illegal. Say I'm withdrawing the decision and there's no problem. So don't, we won't be here, you have political responsibility to Parliament, and Parliament has the political authority to act on you. You just pull it back. It's not a defeat of some of yours I don't know which, if you've made a mistake in applying the law. I think that's a fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18375	Okay. Thank you very much. Here I am now putting Mr. Kunić's proposal to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 15 for, 14 against, 3. 12, so there's no entity majority from the Federation. We don't have any colleagues here, Raguž, so we'll leave this, so we'll plead at another session around this conclusion, because we don't have a college. We're moving on to a plea, so the conclusion isn't passed. We're going to, we have more conclusions from Mr. Joza Križanović. So conclusion one. Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly representative voices concern with the general situation in the country and the crisis in the BiH Council of Ministers, caused by the acceptance and announced resignations of the Council of Ministers. 71 Are we going individually or will you be in Mr. Križanović's package? It's a separate one. Here's the proposal for this first conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 17 for, 16 for 10, 7. The entity therefore has both a general and an entity parliamentary majority. Mr. Križanović's conclusion was adopted. And the conclusion of the 2nd is that, therefore, if the House of Representatives exercises confidence in the chairman of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it obliges the Council of Ministers to complete the Council of Ministers in co-operation with this House within 7 days. This is contrary to what we've adopted as a conclusion, but here I am putting it to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please. We'll add you. We'll add anything he doesn't have. Who else isn't registered to raise your hand? Let's repeat the vote at SDP's request. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. - 11 for, 16 against. The conclusion was not accepted. This way we've exhausted this agenda point. We're going to the third item of the agenda, so that's Ad.3. Parliamentary questions and answers For this session, I would like to thank the Council of Ministers, the chairman. Let's move on. For this session, the questions were answered by lawmakers: Momčilo Novaković and Muhamed Moranjkić. Placed at the 11th session of Dom on 9th April 2003; Tihomir Gligorić was asked at the 12th session of April 22nd; Ljiljana Milićević asked the question at the 41st session of 14th July 2004; Muhamed Moranjkić, Seade Palavrić and Ivo Lozančić were asked at the 48th session of 22.12.2004; Milorad Živković, issue from 50th; Petar Kunić and Ivo Lozančić at the 53rd session; Mirsad Ćeman from 55nd session and Vinko Zorić from 57th session of this house. Any comments on the answers you received? Mr. Živković, Mr. Moranjkić and Mrs. Palavrić. Polahko, one at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18376	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, frankly speaking, I have no comment on my question, but I want to address my fellow Members who have just given support to this council of ministers who have just come out of here if ever if we are here for the next 72 years I will never be here unless there is one of the Council of Ministers... questions and answers. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18377	Thank you. Next, who wants a comment? Who answered that? Give the secretary a hand. Mrs. Palavrić. There she is now, the lady is one. Here you go. So Moranjkić, Novaković
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18378	So, I got, among other things, a response from the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and I have to say that I am not satisfied with the position that the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has expressed in response that for them it is actually a guarantee of impartiality and professionality that judges and prosecutors foreigners receive direct salaries from their governments. I ask that this reaction be re-delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18379	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić. Here you go. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself, then Ćeman and Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18380	Thank you, Chairman. You said nicely that I received two answers to the question from the 48th session of 22.12.2004. I am partially pleased, but the Council of Ministers has skillfully avoided saying and what and what help we are not meant for by the international community have been denied and why. And who is and why in this country is to blame and responsible for what has the international community punished us with this measure, and what are the consequences of these penalties? And the second question -- on the question from the 11th session, uh, before 40th and the change session was given since 9.4.2003, so from over 2 years and tomorrow 2 plus 2 months ago, it's more than a shame and I don't know which more words to use nicely. The answer is no longer current, and all those problems and forgotten already, put somewhere adamant. Act in the trash. So this is all a joke now. I am satisfied, under the alleged signs and the Council of Ministers' affair with Mr. Terzić. Just keep it that way, I think this will be the real work of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18381	Thank you very much. Mr. Novaković. Here you go. Mr. Ćeman, get ready. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a matter of when it will be carried out justly by compensation for Serbs to the inhabitants of the municipality of Glamoc on whose property is a polygon...or a polygon of the Federation's cassar army. Whether ammunition with poor uranium was used in SFOR exercises in the area. I must say that I have received the answer and that I now understand why no just compensation has been made, that is, it will probably never be done. In fact, it is stated here in the response that it is '98. In the year, the Federation government made a decision to determine the general interest in building an army polygon. It is also stated here that the competent municipal authorities of the administration will carry out the identification of the owner's parcel and carry out the expropriation procedure in accordance with the laws governing this area. I must say that the law has defined and paid off, means fees to landowners which unfortunately have not been made, so obviously this procedure has not been made in accordance with the law. What is particularly indicative is one sentence here by the federal defence ministry saying that the aim of co-operation and the correct resolution of all legally-founded issues related to the Glamoč polygon will remain open to co-operation with the relevant authorities. Gentlemen, one ministry is required to work under the law, not to remain open to co-operation. What will they cooperate on and on what plan if basic legal obligations are not met, which is compensation to landowners. Unfortunately, this is the answer you can consider an answer to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18383	Thank you very much. Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Gligorić. And that's what we have, well, well Mr. Avdić commentary too, is on the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18384	So, I, like the second, received this answer to my knowledge, disagreed with the legal position expressed in response, but since interested parties are resolving issues in the law of the prescribed procedures and before the competent authorities, I am only now taking this into account, but the other parties still think that I need to draw attention to the correct understanding and interpretation of the law which the ministry of course knows, but here I underline this. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18385	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18386	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am not satisfied with the answer I received, and I have waited 13 months for it, and I asked the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Human Rights to answer how far the return of tenant rights in possession of tenant rights holders from the military housing fund has been resolved. They also show numbers and percentages of outstanding demands on this basis in the Federation of BiH. 74 I got a little table. It has only eight municipalities and although I waited so long I got incompletely, so they say there are no data from Zenica, Mostar, Gorazde, Bugojno, Konjic, Eggs, Drvar, Busovača, Livno, that there is no Lower Vakuf, Travnik, Gorazde etc. etc. Of the 100, how many 27 municipalities have I received only data for 8 municipalities. This is really out of every comment, and I think it stays true, it raises the question of the meaning and purpose of such haired answers where it is shown that executive power is absolutely not doing its job. Let's not talk about the problem that's about Professor... Špirić spoke when he raised the issue and meant the level of the BiH Constitutional Court, and all we can add to it is the sad country, never coming out of misery.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18387	Thank you very much. Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18388	A new parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18389	No, no. It's an old commentary. You don't. Any comments from the old questions? No more. We conclude the comments of the old, or answered questions. We are opening under b) new parliamentary questions. I'm asking the secretary to record who's first. Mr. Avdić. Here you go. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18390	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the Mixed Club of the Pensioners and Retired Party and two independent MPs. Since there is only one month left until the 10th anniversary of the terrible crimes in Srebrenica over the Bosniak people I propose, and I ask the College to organise in a community with parliamentary clubs a joint resolution on the Srebrenica tragedy and hold a thematic session aimed at considering and adopting this resolution. We believe that this is a minimum of responsibility for the moral and political nature of the Srebrenica tragedy and the death of innocent civilians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18391	I thank my colleague Avdić. Mr. Filip Andrić picked up the phone. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18392	I thank you, Mr. Deputy Chairman. I have a legal initiative. Incentived recently by more and more frequent media reports, the press is mainly about the intolerance of the international, that is, certain threats to messages in the KPD or the Zenica prison, as it is called, which culminated, how to conclude in the media a few days ago by beating the prisoners of one Croatian nationality and another Serbian. We don't have any real information regarding this incident. I therefore ask the Human Rights Commission to visit this KPD, to see there what the state of human rights abuse is like for people who are there to support the punishment and, of course, to come up with appropriate recommendations, or proposals for measures aimed at full respect for human rights in this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18393	I thank my colleague Andrić. The word came from Jelina Đurković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18394	Here's the thing. That the appointed acting foreign minister is currently acting as secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's a little bit like this nonsensical. Twice as much as an employee of duty. Something doesn't make sense to me. Question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18395	Thank you. Dušanka Majkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18396	This parliamentary issue was initiated by yesterday's public debate concerning meat imports and I now want to refer the issue to the Veterinary Office at the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations at the Council of Ministers. The question is – A new Veterinary Act has been published in “Official Messenger” number 34. The law found that every animal in Bosnia and Herzegovina must be marked and marked, means animal and its movement. As the project was launched nearly three years ago, and the job should be completed this year,... it will be fully by the EU. I ask the question – What has been done so far with the implementation of the Veterinary Law with a special reference to: At what current stage and when will the marking of animals in Bosnia and Herzegovina be completed? Is it true, and I heard yesterday that the correct information was that two cases of mad cow disease were seen in imported cattle in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the last year? And what did the Veterinary Office say to EU representatives about the case? Given that this response depends on some of the other activities of the MPs, I would ask that the authorities give the answer as soon as possible and in writing. Thank you. 76
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18397	I thank my colleague, Majkić. Beriz Belkić answered the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18398	The BiH MP's party has a question for the BiH Prosecutor's Office. - So what has the BiH Prosecutor's Office done and what will they do on the circumstances, in our opinion against constitutional actions that threaten Bosnia and Herzegovina's sovereignty and territorial integrity? We are thinking of collecting signatures for a referendum on the secession of Republika Srpska that are publicly gathering in Republika Srpska by some NGOs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18399	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Potočnik called to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18400	My question and request is related to a known group called the so-called Algerian group. The next thing we know, there's been a series of violations. And that is why I am asking this House and the Council of Ministers to check under number one and so on. To review all citizenship since '92. What about next? Second 2. To study exactly what he took away citizenship from the citizens, regardless of what they got, he would say '05. and '97. Which one was given, which one did I say, and which one did he take away? Because at the time, I think it's the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the undersigned was Deputy Minister Tomislav Limov, and also toddler Krešimir Zubak practically took away these people's citizenships. 3. Protecting citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and not citizens registered in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as the responsibility of the BiH state towards members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's citizens? So it's a relationship between the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18401	Thank you. The word was asked for by Mr. Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18402	The respected chairman, respected counterparts of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers, made a decision in December 2004 to form a co-ordination committee on youth issues, which should consist of 18 members, of which 8 would be in government 10 from the NGO sector. To this day, this commission is not based on that decision of administrative affairs and technical assistance would be taken over by the Bosnia and Herzegovina Ministry of Civil Affairs. 77 The questions are: - Why has there not been a co-ordination committee on the issue of youth based on the Council of Ministers' Decision in these last 5 months and when will it start working? And second - When will the reorganisation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs take place within which a youth department will be formed, and based on the information provided by the ministry in 2005 at one of the public meetings?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18403	Thank you. Seada Palavrić has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18404	For my question, I'm going to need all the media help, because the ones I'm asking are not present here. In fact, over the past week, we have seen earthquakes of genocide against Bošnjak in Srebrenica, four of whom are minors. The crime seems to have been committed by Serbia's special unit. Today in Briony, I still don't know the course of events, but during an attempt to sign a declaration of judicial co-operation under which the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina would unconditionally extradite war crimes indictees, these are persons with dual citizenship of the state in which the crime was committed. Personally, I believe that anyone who does not do everything to make it possible for persons accused of violating international humanitarian law not to escape justice, hiding behind dual citizenship, to want it or not to become an accomplice to the impunity of crime. Bearing in mind the fact that the Republic of Croatia and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro, they refuse to sign this declaration by calling for their constitutions. I call on the EU Commission to allow these two countries to enter into negotiations on the EU's further approach until they sign this declaration, because it is because EU Member States must give up some of their sovereignty in favour of EU law. And the second question I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the SIP and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina: - What do they know about the routes and statements of the RS interior minister in the United States from the aspect of the reputation and constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina? The same goes for the statements made by Handan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18405	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman prepare himself and finally Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, and that would be the end of the parliamentary issues. Here you go. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18406	According to information available to me, the newly-elected Serbian-language lecturer has been elected to this post by the Agency, therefore for the state service, despite a series of illogicalities. So let's say, I'll only list a few. In fact, the newly elected lecturer on the census declared herself as the rest. The questionnaire she filled out was filled in with a Latin letter. At the office door of the lecturer's insistence, the inscription is written in a Latin letter, from which I conclude that the Cyrillic is not a much stronger side of the Serbian language lecturer, which can again be a natural disturbance in the quality of doing this job. My question is: 1. Who scored the candidates, on what criteria did the candidates get points and what candidate got how many points individually by the criteria? I'm looking for the score log. 2. In which language did the newly elected Serbian lecturer lecture texts while she was employed on BiH Television? 3. In what language did the newly-elected Serbian-language lecturer translate while she was employed at the SFOR base in Butmir? 4. In which language were the texts that were lectured by the newly chosen lecturer for Serbian while she was employed at the Centre for the Promotion of Civil Society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18407	I thank Mr. Novaković. The word has a Ćeman Mirsad. The MP's intervention was requested by Dr. You're a Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18408	That's not appropriate. But I think it's an embarrassing question you've asked. Embarrassingly, embarrassingly in a way and playing this game with the rights of people in this country to have the right to know both language and to use whatever language they want. It's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18409	Unread Discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18410	I'm sorry. Lagumdžija asked for business intervention. I don't know what he's gonna talk about, but here I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18411	Mr. Ćeman Mirsad has, I apologize to Nikola. Thank you so much for running the session. Mr. Ćeman. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18412	I have two questions. First, it refers to the Ministry of Security and second to the Council of Ministers. The Department of Security. - Which is why interested citizens, including institutions, even for scientific research, at least not to the extent necessary does not allow for an insight into the archive structure related to the period '48. - '56. Inforbero documents, whether or not they are related to the UDBU State Security Administration, courts, prosecutions or the like? In this context, did the Intelligence Agency Act that we have recently, here we can even say, bring in a special member of 87th interference with personal records? Whether it is justified and not to make clear to the scientific public the complete archival structure related to the inforbiro, the period '48-'56, NDH, period '41-'45, and period '45', '47. related to the activity of the authorities of the DPZ, KPJ, NOF, UDBA, etc., if, in particular, the scientific public is increasingly interested in this structure and they do not always understand, for example. is the Ministry of Security considering proposals for amendments to regulations that do not make it impossible to see these structures, including personal files? If the answer is no, in addition to understanding this question as a parliamentary question, I suggest that it also be taken into account as an initiative to review the solution in the applicable rules on this matter. Namely, the direct cause for this question is not a negative response from the competent agency of a citizen, one of the scientists from Pristina, upon requesting an insight into a number of personal files from that period. As an MP, I am asked to assist in the proper understanding of the rules in this area, including the possible initiation of amendments and amendments to the law in the sense that there is indeed an expiry of over 50 years, even a certain structure and which should be inaccessible. That's one question. A second question to the Council of Ministers - When will it be protected and how will the final interest of the citizens of Janje be in the border area with Serbia-Montenegro? I'm looking for written answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18413	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević and then we move on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18414	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is – What will the Ministry of Security and the competent agencies do about the public claims made by people well informed that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, private information is secretly collected about some people outside legal institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18415	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this way, is the end of the 3rd agenda. Let's move on. If we are effective, we have a chance to finish this session today. Point four is A.4. Request by the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs to consider the Proposal for a Law amending the customs tariff law of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 105. Our Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs The proposal for an emergency procedure was submitted on 19 May 2005. It was passed to you on May 23rd. An emergency procedure under Article 105 is therefore required. It's that yeast. Eh, please nice. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Here you see, Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Belkić, Mr. Križanović. Here you go. Mrs. Majkić, Mr. Belkić. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18416	Although the Commission has made its report here, I should just say briefly because this is one of the typical examples of what is going on with the requirements for amending the laws that have been going on, which have been in the process for more than two years. So for more than two years, Bosnia and Herzegovina's Zito Community from Sarajevo and the Association of Agricultural Producers from Republika Srpska launched an initiative to amend and abolish actual duties, additional duties or advances on imports of fresh and dry yeast. The initiatives went parallel to both the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and they all agreed, but by someone's mistake, this amendment did not enter the Decision on the alignment and establishment of the 2005 tariff. Now, I ask the question, if it takes two and more years in this country to implement agreed decisions, how much more to implement decisions that need to be agreed on at different levels in Bosnia and Herzegovina? Is this a message that we send to BiH's peers good enough to restore confidence, what we do and, in summary, that the Commission believes that the elimination of the 1.5-kg surplus is a matter of cutbacks. dried yeast and 0,60 marks per kg. fresh yeast, at the existing rate of 5%, has an impact on the development of bakery production in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which deals with the production of food products as basic life supplies, the Commission has proposed to the House of Representatives to consider and adopt the Proposal for a Law amending the Customs Tariff Act under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 105. Thank you. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18417	Thank you. Mr. Belkić. Here you go. Beka is preparing Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18418	I will not disappoint Mrs. Majkić, the Party for BiH MPs' club wants to support this request and will vote in favour of these changes and additions. However, we want to warn of something else. Namely, here is the third time on the basis of individual initiatives, requirements, mainly justified producers, etc. We change certain things, so cars, meat, now yeast, etc., and we don't care what happens in the overall tariff ratio, or what happens to tariffs within the group, etc. from the point of view of the recommendations for the VTO and our accession to the VTO. I'm thinking about the average level of average tariffs per group. That is why it would be good for the RES to make an inventory of the changes so far, to see what the average tariffs per group have been given to these changes. Are they part of the recommendations and definitely re-evaluate and suggest in the package what it is that should possibly still be done, not that we go every time ad hoc and lose control of the effects we get in a group of tariffs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18419	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18420	I thank Mr. Chairman, I actually wanted to say the good part of what my colleague Belkić has already said. I remind you that we've been in six months and that this third amendment to the Customs Tariff Act is ours. I therefore fully support these remarks, and I would even like to suggest a conclusion that would go towards the Council of Ministers that this area of customs tariffs is really slightly more thorough and that we do not receive every month amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18421	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Mr. Lagumdžija, join us in the vote. Prepare to vote. We're talking procedure under this law. Vote now. - 20 for, 2 against, 1 abstention, 14, 6. So there's both a general and an entity majority. Accepted procedure. 82 We declare the law itself if there is no debate. There was a debate about the law itself. Prepare to vote on the law. Vote now. - 23 for, one against, no abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives has passed the Law amending the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina by an urgent procedure on the proposal of our Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Member's request, please Mr Križanović, business intervention
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18422	...outstretched about and suggested one conclusion. Here's the thing. We've passed the law. All right, but to really direct one recommendation to the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, that this law be little, to say search and to come with full changes and supplements, not to go to pieces like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18423	Okay. I'm putting forward a proposal for a vote. I think it's a good conclusion that he's therefore suggesting to the Ministry that they search the tariff, come with a full change. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 26 for, no problem, no abstentions. The entity's majority exists. We've also adopted a conclusion. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Momčilo for a Framework Law on Higher Education of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure pursuant to Article 104. Poslanik Novaković's Rules of Procedure delivered the bill on May 13th. He was shot at you on May 16th. An emergency procedure is required here in accordance with Article 104 of this House, and today we are merely deciding on the procedure. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Here you go. Mr. Filip Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18424	Here I can only repeat what I was saying when setting the agenda. Since we already have in the procedure of the Law on Higher Education, which is currently in a state of waiting, waiting for decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the law to be implemented so that it can end its procedure of adoption. If we accept procedure for 83 again for this law, I believe in this situation that we will have two laws in the procedure of higher education. I think it is commercially inadmissible that this law must wait, possibly if the law which is already in the procedure is not adopted then there are some circumstances that some other instructions are being made again, while at the same time we have two laws, I do not think it stands and I suggest that this and the conclusion that the Council of Ministers rush in some way to prepare a new law, i.e. that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are implemented by law and proceed with the procedure of the Law on Higher Education.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18425	Thank you, Mr. Andrić. I only owe one little clarification. We are therefore obliged to put a request for a shortened procedure on Parliament's statement, and we today need to make clear whether we are in favour of a shortened procedure or a regular procedure. We can't get the law out of the procedure under the Rules of Procedure, but we can, after the Commission has been made clear when we are, if at all, in a position to discuss the very essence of the law, then we can discuss this proposal that you're talking about and which, in my opinion, has its basis, if that earlier law is still in some kind of procedure. So, but what's it called about? So now we only plead to the procedure. Mr. Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18426	Mr. Chairman, I would firstly like to propose a word that motivated me to propose this law in accordance with Article 104. So, considering that we have been waiting too long for this law on the one hand and on the other hand that we will enter the period of vacations, it seemed logical that it would be good for this law in a shorter procedure, with full respect for the rights of MPs, to act in amendment with the aim of getting as much quality a solution as possible, I propose this way. As for Mr. Andrić's attitude, of course, it's probably the precedent would be if it were what he says. I suppose that in such a way, whether it is so or not, we cannot even discuss it because it is a law that has been passed, which is by decision, or by the Constitutional Court practically confirmed the protection of vital national interest which practically led to this law falling, therefore no longer exists in parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18427	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to make a statement on the procedure. Vote now. - Ten for, 17 against, no abstentions. This shortened, i.e. emergency procedure is not accepted. The law has that regular procedure according to our rules of procedure, and then we will talk about these questions if we come to the position Mr Andrić spoke of and about which Mr Novaković also gave his consideration at Parliament's session. If we get to that position, then. 84 Therefore this procedure under Article 104 has not been accepted. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The request of MP Momčilo Novaković to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The proposal for this law was submitted on 30 May 2005. He was sent to you by fax on June 2nd. It is a request for an emergency procedure under Article 105. I'm opening a debate on the procedure. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18428	I don't know if I should have picked up now, or later, but about I'll be very brief. I have been consulting in the DGS and this change makes sense, i.e. this initiative makes sense in some way, but there is another situation that a strategy of integrated border management has been done and it has been delivered to the Council of Ministers for consideration and it is certain that the strategy will require certain amendments to this law. And I suggest that this law goes into regular procedure to meet with other initiatives to amend this law. That's our attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18429	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Novaković, then Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18430	I'd only say about my motives, which is why I suggested Article 105. In fact, if you enter the text of the law, then there may be a situation that although this law is passed, it doesn't make sense for this year. Therefore, its provisions could not apply, or practically, for this year would not make any sense. For this reason, it is my suggestion that this law be considered under Article 105 and, of course, considering that it meets basic business conditions, which is that it is a very simple law which can be considered in this way. What else was the goal you could see from the explanation. I don't want to explain, of course, what it already says in the explanation, but the basic motive is therefore that one area that seems to me to be not sufficiently analysed when the law was passed, so it's seen in a different way from one different aspect and enables this sport fishing to be practically possible without any special tightenings, that people can dream of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18431	Thank you very much. Mrs. Palavrić. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18432	I think that the bill that Mr. Novaković offered, namely the solution, does not actually solve the problem, especially from an absecction of reasoning and what is in the text itself, although the law that changes is not attached to the law that needs to be passed. In fact, by erasing it itself, we will not solve what Mr. Novaković has proposed in the light of the law. Secondly, I think that, I don't think this law could be corrected by amendments for the simple reason that the Joint Commission for Defence and Security Policy seven days ago was visiting the DGS where we were told there were major gaps in this law in the Brcko and Bijeljina District. One example is that no sanctions are provided for a foreigner arriving at the arms border. Therefore, I propose that the Council of Ministers come out with the necessary amendments to the law, immediately, or that Mr. Novaković make a new text of the law, because we could not change it now to every part of the law, and 105th is impossible to talk about, because I think there are many open questions that would only erase, to which only erasure would not give an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18433	Thank you very much. Hello. The president of the Supreme Prosecutor's Council and the VSTV BiH gentlemen have just entered the hall. I welcome them on behalf of the House of Representatives. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a plea. We are voting on the procedure required by Mr Novaković regarding the Law on the Control of the Crossing of State, Control and Control of the Crossing of the State Border. The request is pursuant to Article 105. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 13 against. From Federation 6, RS 8. He doesn't have an entity majority from the Federation. He's going for a match. We don't have colleagues from the college. We'll leave it another time and we'll plead after the College does within the deadlines it's due. We're going to the 7th agenda point, Ad.7. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Criminal Procedure of Bosnia and Herzegovina under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina actually delivered the bill yesterday. You got him on the bench this morning. It is about those DNA analyses that are needed for the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina to function normally and apply the evidence procedures laid down in the Criminal Procedure Act. I would like to point out that it is a law that, on a provisional basis, was declared by 86 High Representative. Thus, the team more obliged this home to adopt it in that text in which it is valid and declared by the High Representative. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18434	So while it is a procedure for the adoption of this law at the moment, I draw attention again that we have recently adopted uniform normative rules and that we have provided for a different approach to this kind of situation, so this means that it does not prescribe the same text of the law in the form in which it was declared by the High Representative, but in fact the law on the validation of the law that has been declared and as such delivery in the procedure. If I'm not mistaken. Therefore, I draw attention to that. It is indeed necessary for people who propose laws and bodies to come to these provisions in particular and to apply them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18435	Thank you, Mr. Ćeman. You're absolutely right. Who wants to talk any further? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would not, for this reason, delay a statement on this law. I'd like to make a statement, but also, I'd like to ask you a little attention only, but also to give one more warning to all the entities who are working on writing the law to keep an eye on the rules adopted by this home when it comes to nomotechnics. If it's all right with you, I'd like to invite you to make a statement about the procedure regarding this law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 23 for, 1 against, 3 abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted this procedure under Article 105. We plead to the very essence of the text of the law. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 27 for, no problem, no abstentions. That's enough of the entite majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedures of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the obligation of our Parliament's services to re-rule the rules on the making of legal provisions treated by this Parliament to deliver to the entities working on writing the texts of the laws to comply with these rules because these rules must be respected. Thank you very much. We're going to the eight-day line, that's Ad.8. The proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's railways (first reading) The Council of Ministers proposed a proposal on 9 March 2005 with a request for consideration under Article 104. Rules of Procedure. At the 54th session of the House, an emergency request was adopted. 87 The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 1 April 2005. The committee responsible for this law is the Commission for Transport and Communications. A report by the committee responsible was submitted on 16 May 2005. The Commission supported the principles of the proposed law and adopted one amendment. At the plenary stage, we didn't get the amendment. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 27 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the law was passed in the first reading. I suggest we decide if we go straight to another reading. Prepare to vote. We are voting on whether the Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina will be considered immediately today in another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 27 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I realize we decided to go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a statement on the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 28 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina passed the Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the second reading, which considers the text of the law in this House to be adopted. Please continue in this atmosphere. I'll tell you a secret that I rest a little after a tumultuous morning and a heated debate when a session enters a calm and fine stream, no matter how much I disagree with the headquarters of this corporation in this law. But that's one little comment. So let's keep working. Let's go. Please. I voted for the law, of course I voted. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH – Proposers Martin Raguž, Ćeman Mirsad and Selim Bešlagić (first reading) I would Podsjetić you that we had this bill at the 56th session when we had a negative report from the committee in charge. Dom didn't adopt the commission's report. He set a new 30-day deadline to discuss the bill's proposal and deliver a new report. A new report by the Commission on human rights, refugee immigration and asylum was delivered on 3 June and was forwarded to you via fax. As you have seen, the Commission adopted 11 amendments and adopted the draft law with these amendments. At the plenary stage, we have no amendments. 88 I'm opening a debate on the law in my first reading. Mr. Gligorić Tihomir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18436	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's a need for us to stay here long because the Human Rights Commission has considered and adopted both the principles and details and since the legislators have worked on the team and thus helped the Commission to actually resolve this issue by consensus and it would even be good to do the same in the future so that they helped Mr. Raguž and Mr. Novaković and Mr. Selim Bešlagić that all these people who have proposed, Ćeman Mirsad, too, did a good job and I suggest that we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18437	Thank you. Nobody's picking up any more. Mrs. Palavrić Mirsad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18438	Well, I only report to the Commission's report. I have not understood since the provisional chairman of the Commission appears.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18439	What commission is that?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18440	For human rights. Well, it seems to be illegal for them, too. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18441	Please nice, commission for, I'll explain. So the Human Rights Commission, refugees, immigration and asylum in the House of Representatives has no temporary chairman and temporary deputies. She has both the chair and the deputies, and if something else is written in the Commission's report, then it is a mistake and I ask the services to fix that mistake by our Joint Defence and Security Commission and the Labour Legal Control Commission The Intelligence Security Agency has temporary chairman and temporary deputies, the Home Commissions have been elected and are chaired by the deputies, and this will also be resolved very quickly, it will no longer be temporary, but will be permanent. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the law in first reading. Vote now. - 27 for, without and without a abstention and enough entity majority. I realize we passed the law in our first reading. Since there are no amendments to the very text of the law, I suggest we state whether or not the law will be considered in the second reading. 89 So prepare to vote, decide whether to go to another reading or not. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 26 for, one abstention and no objection, enough entity majority. Let's go to another reading. I'm opening a discussion in a second reading. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. We declare the law in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 26 for, no problem, one abstention, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the proposal of our MPs Mr Mirsad Ćeman, Martin Raguž, Mirsad Ćeman and selo Bešlagić. In this way, we have met one of the obligations that Bosnia and Herzegovina has and which, it seems to me, is completely unnecessary so far, but here's a better one than ever. In this way, we have fulfilled this important obligation and, if I may say, we have made it satisfactory here, among other things, to the Centre of Civil Initiatives that is present here as an NGO. We're going to the tenth item of the agenda, that's A.10. The Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004 You received the Annual Report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the past year. The report was considered by the Constitutional and Legal Committee whose opinion you received. In addition to the findings contained in the opinion, the Commission proposed to the House to take note or to the Knowledge Report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004. That is actually what this parliament's obligation to the High Court Prosecutor's Council is in the report on their work. So getting the report on the record. I'm opening a debate on this. Who wants to talk? Anybody want to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić first reported, followed by Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18442	Well, it seems that me and my colleague Gligorić agree that we shouldn't just stay on the ground and take in knowledge for a number of reasons, right? No matter how much the law says that the High 90 Judicial Council at least once a year, as far as I know, submits a report, i.e. informs Parliament. I'll do it for a while, but I don't think it's important to point out the following. As it is said in the accompanying act by the motionor, or by the rapporteurs, that the objective is to inform and provide for this constant dialogue on problems, i.e. on the judicial reform processes towards building an independent competent judiciary that gives us confidence and performs its function, I think that this report and this strategy, which is also the strategic plan of the Council for 2005 and 2007, which they delivered to us, have practically fulfilled their intention and purpose. So here's the information, and here's the opportunity to tell each other something. It is a key problem for me, and I would like to hear from Mr. Perić, and it is a key problem for me to understand what is meant by independence, under independence, not just the judicial system, but a series of agencies that we set up and give them an adjective of independence, etc. Some of my understanding is that there are laws that guarantee that I say some kind of justice, some kind of independence of that institution, that there are certain standards, principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18443	At this point, we've lost the quorum in the O.R.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18444	procedure we're not
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18445	I'm interrupting the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18446	We didn't. Mr. Novaković will be back by the time I'm done. Hello, Novaković, let me finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18447	No, no. Just finish the discussion, then I'll interrupt the session. You're the only one to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18448	So that's how I understand independence, because I'm not saying this for no reason. It is not independence, it is, it is maintained in some way and the status of people we want to be independent of etc., but I do not think that it is just to say that it is viewed only through the status of people, through wages, through this, through the appointment, but through the whole set of arrangements of a particular area, but I would like to hear from Mr. Perić. I think we should do everything when it comes to the House of Representatives to ensure that it is reached, to keep that level achieved so as to say financing this function, the equipment and the rest. We've had a funding situation so far through help, etc. and in front of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina is one big responsibility to take the practical situation into their own hands when these donations stop, because there would be a pretty good one, so to speak 91 shipwrecks and to collapse the level achieved. And on the other hand, I think it's very important to have this education and to be more clear, so I'm not just thinking about education, but about introducing a whole new staff. I have to say that, my opinion is, I apologize if I'm also wrong about those people I'm about to tell you about, my opinion is that 80% of the judicial staff are politicised, or in some way politically recognizable. They were engaged in different ways in individual political options, members of legal councils, appointed by political parties, etc. So it would be very important, apart from the general approach and the need for education, to work on one shift, to say raising young generations that will practically take on fully responsible functions in the near future. And let me finish. I'm very sorry that we don't have some opinion from the Department of Justice, it would be good if the Resort Ministry had looked at this and told us something about this report, that's one thing. And secondly, I am not giving up, and I suggest that I call on the College to honor our earlier conclusion where we kept asking for a year and a half to get information about the course and the results of the judicial reform completely. So, that report by the independent judicial commission that was presented and addressed to the BiH Justice Ministry and which the MPs received, thus not mixing with today's topic and today's agenda. I am asking Parliament, or the College to put the agenda under consideration of the report of an independent judicial committee. It's very important that the public knows what happened. People have reported to themselves. Let me be clear. There you go. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18449	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18450	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to discuss the report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the constitutional and legal committee and we have indeed done our best to analyse and in some way to a representative of the Council of the High and Court Prosecutorial Council in order to prepare this meeting of the House of Representatives today by your institution. That's how we wanted to do it more effectively today and I suggest that we may not go in such detail as we did inside the Commission. That is why I share my opinion with Mr. Beriz Belkić, who contributed to his work as well as Mr. Professor. The Kunić that just answered the word. I think here in, only taxing would be good to stress that as far as the report is concerned that the methodological, substantively precise and totally clear and that it was satisfied and not only that, I would also like other, other institutions that submit reports to the House of Representatives and the Parliamentary Assembly to do so, and not only when it comes to content, which is most important, but also form and thus I think that you are far above other institutions when it comes to such a way of presenting the report itself. And at the same time, it might be good to get some information from yours that was a dilemma on the Commission itself, which is when it comes to financial resources, when 92 is talking about the whole reform process that you've been going to. One dyspression. It is quite understandable that there will also be some problems on this road that will be solved in the first place. It should never be said that it is now good, perfect, it is simply not so, but at the same time this parliament should give support to the leadership to end this in continuity for the sake of this job and report to Parliament and what we can help them with the financial resources. Given that it was a different way of funding before, we are now dealing with it in the budget, then we should really always consider what the means are so that they can meet the annual needs optimally, and my question is whether you are, when it comes to material resources, when it comes to equipment, we can welcome that protected witnesses can be in the process of being physically protected and at the same time from those tones of genuine voice protection and everything else that goes into it so that that witness can be maximum protection, and we know what awaits us in future work in the judiciary. At the same time, when we talk about the salaries of the people in the judiciary, I mean the Prosecutor's Office, both the state court of BiH and the High Court of Justice. In that case, we have to resolve this issue more for Parliament, because we have made that decision in the Work Programme, I see that we have put it, that in this way we try to resolve this issue, not with individual decisions like we have now, and in this way we can solve this issue in a quality way, without calling people in the judiciary for high wages, I believe that these salaries are not high if they do their job. And of course, when it comes to the personnel structure, it's good that over 55% of women in the High Judicial Council, or the State Court and the Prosecutor's Office, and that's good, and I think that trend should continue. And at the same time as we talk about the independence of the judiciary, what Mr Belkić was saying there should really try to see whether they should not be dependent on the OHR or on any institution in Bosnia and Herzegovina so that they can work on their own and I end up with this. When Mr. Eždaun spoke about how foreign prosecutors should be protected, it's quite right, but at the same time I wish I had heard that I should protect the domestic prosecutors, since they were also exposed because we are unfortunately living in a criminalised state not to tell the mob state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18451	You're obviously in the mood today, Mr. Gligorić. When you watch the stenogram of today's session I think one good part will fall on your discussion, but in any case welcome to the discussion is. I'd really like to ask my colleagues to make it a little bit shorter to try to say what we're thinking. I think you can say that in a shorter statement, but here's the deal. Mr. Kunić has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18452	...in the Constitutional Commission on this report, namely all to create a truly independent judiciary in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I have more objections to the current concept of creating an independent judiciary. I believe that the courts, or the High Court and Prosecutorial Council 93, cannot be enclaves in the system. So he has to answer to someone. He must be subject to someone's control. There's no institution in any country that's not under anyone's control. So in this sense, it will have to be legislative to change it in the direction of this high court prosecutor's council indeed submits a report to someone to whom it is responsible. Here in the report only in terms of funding. Funding is not a sufficient dimension that the High Judicial Council is responsible for the Parliamentary Assembly because there is no provision anywhere that it is responsible for anything. Second, independence of the judiciary. Of course, you should look from the point of view of the judge's independence, so no one can interfere with the judge's work. He's incorrigible. No Niko, not from politics, I don't know who can't, on a specific case, have the effect of getting rid of it in one way or another. But please, the judiciary is part of the legal system. The judiciary is part of a rule of law where there is a division of power, principle, division of power. The principle of power-sharing is a fundamental principle in the rule of law. It's a fundamental principle. So why the division of power? To create the possibility of one government controlling another. That there's an equilibre between the authorities. That one power controls the other. Therefore, the judiciary cannot be out of control of the system. It has to be controlled. Of course independence must be ensured through other species etc. This kind of vision that I was talking about otherwise loses the meaning of this equilibria, the balance between the authorities. And that's the primary goal of sharing power. The other thing I did on the Constitutional Commission is the Banja Luka case, is the Banja Luka case. In Banja Luka, dramas have been happening for the last 2-3 years, exorcising people from their apartments, people who have legally replaced apartments. So they legally switched apartments. On this issue, we have the views of the OHR Legal Service, which says that if a contract is terminated, the courts are obliged to examine any specific case. And if they find, of course, that there's been coercion, that there's been fraud, that there's been this forced expropriation to break up, they make a decision to break that contract. Unless they have it, to strengthen that contract. There's an OHR interpretation of the Legal Service. However, no matter what, in Banja Luka, people who changed apartments are expelled, where it can be found that these people did not make a replacement based on coercion and coercion. So we have contracts that are concluded in Croatia and such contracts are cancelled, so that people who have come to the premises of BiH remain without property in Croatia, remain without property in BiH. The question is, is that possible today? Please, I'm giving criticism to the High Court, Prosecutorial Council, why he didn't deal with that phenomenon, because it's only in Banja Luka. The fact itself should have caused the High Court, Prosecutorial Council's advice on why this is happening right in Banja Luka, why not anywhere else in RS or elsewhere in the Federation of BiH. That should be examined to see what's in the middle. What's there to see that phenomenon, and people, of course, get hurt and that's how they get hurt. I hope, therefore, that in this respect, there is the President of the Council that he will take some steps in this regard to address the situation and take appropriate measures within the framework of the mandate. And the last thing I'd like to do is refer it to the High Judicial Council, so it doesn't interfere with politics. To stay out of politics. Here, the most important thing is that the future needs to be financed at BH level, it's political interference, it determines politics, through political objectives, where there will be judicial funding. Just like you wrote in one place, improving the nast... in 94 the entire BH is out of the High Court mandate, so the same is beyond the mandate of funding outside the mandate. It's a matter of other bodies and you're going to emulate and not suggestively impose political solutions. So, it was, it was my remarks on this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18453	Thank you, Mr. Kunić. I would need to make my own comment on this discussion of yours. I agree with you, let's say that we can take a look at the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and examine these buckles that the judiciary or the judiciary system in BiH binds to the rest of the Walls in BiH and to the Legislative and Executive but I believe that the existing Law provides enough mechanisms that there are buckles and on the other hand, enables independence of the judicial authority because there is no independent judge without an independent judicial authority, i.e. an independent judicial authority is actually an independent judge. And the other thing, I'd like to ask, is that you've presented one specific legal situation, I think it's a job of first-degree, second-degree courts, their actual functional jurisdiction, and let it be discussed in courts within the framework of actual and functional jurisdiction. I don't think it would be a good idea for us to point out these remarks to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. It's one of my little comments, like some kind of replica, and you're going to answer me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18454	You keep your opinion, Mr. Chairman, to yourself. It's my opinion that it's a phenomenon that needs to be questioned, and I think it's a high court, prosecution council, because it's the work of a judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18455	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18456	to control the work of the judge, it's your opinion and my opinion,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18457	Thank you, Mr. Kunić, it's nice that you have the ability to make your point, but it's not nice to tell me that I'm your attitude, and I'm totally even with you here, I keep it to myself. However you made public your position, and I made it public, although I could have gone there for a pay phone for this collar of the chairman. Oh, great, thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18458	We all know that a reform has been carried out in the judiciary and the prosecution in BiH, or the entire judiciary. I am intrigued by the results of this reform. 95 I am as likely as most MPs in the people, in the field, which would be said and the assessments on the ground speak also some very large shortcomings, which have emerged with judicial and prosecutorial reform. Even in certain areas, they reach negative connotations, so let's say I would like as a man, as a citizen, as an MP, to get from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council their view and their exact data which would worry about painting the efficiency of judicial reform and what it is in the extreme and most likely agree itself, that some things in this reform are not affected and what in this context is planning and even considering even in the course of changing, let's say here, concrete negative phenomena in the merger of certain courts, the inadequacy of judges, the occurrence of now larger problems there in resolving court processes, higher costs for citizens, etc. These are just some phenomena that just come out in the field. Probably not a picture of all the terrain, this is a particular picture of Tuzlani Canton, and I've allowed myself to cross the line from the minister of justice in the canton, I've had a conversation with him, and I've received data that first, as a man, have a little bit of concern, and they don't give a picture that shows up in public sometimes, through means of information that sometimes and that matter is treated. I was normal, then with this line of guests both with the prosecutor and the president of the Cantonal Court and with the information I have available there, I see that in some segments of the reform has not exactly done what was expected of it. Well, it would be interesting if such a single report, let's say, saw the light of day in this House as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18459	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Mr. Hazim Felić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18460	Well, in the spirit of these issues that Mr. Moranjkić has also asked, I really think that the justice system in the bih area that has so far experienced the most reforms and attempts to reform the justice system in BiH. Some have shown themselves badly, those that were done before, here is a new reform. I just want to ask one question which is, which may explain the course of reforms in the prosecution area. In the course of the prosecution's reform under the judicial system, it is known that the Federation has abolished the municipal prosecution. There are only cantonal prosecutors, with their deputies and there are municipal, or cantonal courts. From what I know, this system of reform of the prosecution in the canton area from which I come, which is the Unsko-San canton, has its negative effects, primarily in financial and human resources. In fact, municipal prosecutors have been suspended and cantonal prosecutors have to take them to every case, even the smallest one to go to a hearing in eight municipalities in the canton area. It requires costs, increased costs and requires additional efforts by the prosecutor. I think both the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council should look at the problem and possibly correct it if it is, if it turns out to be a worse solution than it has ever been. Indeed in the best sense, 96 means that we see whether it is really worth it and what the effects of the prosecution's reform are, say, at this cantonal or municipal level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18461	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk? If no one is answering for a word, there are representatives, or presidents of the High Court, prosecutor's council. He heard suggestions and proposals from parliamentarians for reforming the judiciary system in no state, and neither can BiH be given the thing once and for all. It should follow time, it should follow trends in society and, of course, that it will certainly, it is no wisdom if we say, adapt to current trends in society and some long-term projections. Those solutions that aren't this, proved to be in practice correct, I think they need to be changed, those that are, should be left behind, so there are people who do it, but if someone else wants to talk, I'll make it possible for them. Would you, Mr. President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council? You'll come here for a pay phone, for you it's a seat here, the President of the High Court, the Prosecutor's Council, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18462	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to you today. I'm very impressed with the atmosphere in this house, and I have to admit I had a different idea about it. I'd be happy if the atmosphere in my sessions was similar to this one. I'll try to respect your time. Just a few introductory words before I try to answer questions. The reform of the judiciary and the legal system in this country is the most beautiful story in the region and you can boast anywhere in the world, with the results achieved in this reform. It is indeed something that represents the most European standards, and BiH has gone the farthest in the reform. This was recognised by all the people we talked to, even from the developed legal systems of Europeans. So, I move on to the questions asked by Mr. Belkić. The problem of independence. The independence of judges and prosecutors is a European standard that implies independence from the executive and parliamentary authorities, as regards the appointment and the procedures for their disciplinary responsibility. It is believed that appointments and...responsibility are something that can indirectly affect the independence of judges. And, therefore, there ends that independence but it does not imply the absence of any responsibility. And I want to convince you that we want to answer and we want to be partners with the state authorities and you saw in our strategic plan that one of our strategic goals is to establish co-operation with the state authorities. First of all, I think of Parliament and the Ministry of Justice. And, indeed, we will soon organise a meeting with your legislative committee or with a group of parliamentarians to give you broader presentation of our strategic objectives and the results of the reforms so far. I think we should have done that, and we had 97 intentions to do it before, but we had a lot of problems with some of our specific jobs. Part of our strategy is to introduce the structure of courts and sue as many young people as possible. As you know, about 30% of judges and prosecutors have not passed the process of renaming, for various reasons. Is it because they were connected to some political structures, whether because they violated property laws, whether because there were some complaints against them that we thought were challenging their credibility. And we rely mainly on professional associates, so the young people we're going to try through the process of education and some changes in the laws to introduce into the system. We think that young people have a different attitude towards reforms than people who were part of a system in the '50s, and it's not easy psychologically to overcome that barrier. Mr. Gligorić has raised the problem of protected witnesses and the possibility of courts providing financial insurance. That is one serious problem that we can only influence through the draft budget by the President of the Court. Therefore, the Presidents of the Courts should plan budgets for witness protection, of course bearing in mind the alleged inflow of cases in which it will be necessary to provide that protection. And that is a serious problem. We will strive to include these items in the draft budget to the Ministry of Justice and the Palrament, and they will be very transparent, but it will all depend on the projection and the proposal of the President of the Court. We can't have a different way of affecting it. However, there are a number of other problems. So, providing a protection program, that's something I'm drawing your attention to. It seems to me that some time has been discussed about the law or some witness protection program that may well be international, because we are a small country and are not always able to provide these safe witness protection mechanisms. So it's something that might be the subject of thinking for you. The salaries of judges and prosecutors, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is working on a draft bill on salaries that should be at the level of the state, but that is not necessary, but in any case, what we want to provide is to level the salaries at BiH level and above all, because we have made appointments to establish an ethnic balance of people from the Federation to RS, people from the RS in the Federation of BiH, so that this is one of the reasons why wages should be unique. And, of course, we want those salaries to also be in line with some of the standards that exist in European countries, so that a certain percentage, an acceptable percentage, goes to wages, and that will probably mean a reduction in all salaries. So far, salaries vary in the RS and the Federation of BiH, due to different mechanisms for their calculation. The High Representative, as you know, has frozen those salaries and we are counting on that draft to be completed by the end of this month and he will appear in some procedure. But that's our strategy, so unifying and cutting wages to a level that involves some standards in European countries. Mr. Kunić, the concept and control of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I did not quite understand that kind of objection. It's not the High Court and Prosecution Council out of control. This issue of control can be set up for any body that, above which there is no control, but the very structure of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is such that it includes 98 of some control mechanisms and this parliament has its representative there and the government has its own representative, and legal associations have their own representatives, courts have their own representatives and these courts of all levels, prosecutors also, it is one mechanism that should guarantee a single security. In addition, there are audit agencies that will investigate the second segment of control, so available to funds, so I don't see that problem and I'm not, I can't accept that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is out of control, so before such a body exists as a standard in countries, especially its status is acceptable to countries in transition. The problems that arise in Banja Luka in applying, in court practice, I really can't comment on them. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council does not question the legality of decisions, there is no mandate. So it's out of our evasiveness. Courts apply the law, law enforcement exists through a system of complaints and emergency legal remedies, so there may be a problem with the bad law, but that is another problem, and parliaments should be subject to taking care of it and changing bad laws. But from what I understand, there's a problem with regulations in two countries that don't have to be compatible, so that's all I can answer to this objection. The objection that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council interferes in politics, given our suggestion that it should follow the recommendation of a functional analysis of the RPA sector, when it comes to the financing problem. It's really a huge problem that can put our further reform at risk. The state of funding of courts and prosecutors is alarming and I can give you several examples that are devastating and that are unacceptable for a country that should be involved in European integration. I was recently in Capljina, and everywhere they told me that they were buying their own toner, buying their own paper, buying their own toilet paper, because simply their canton can't meet those financial obligations. And, let me tell you, debts are, for example, debts. in this canton and in the Sava Canton by judge about 60 to 70 thousand marks, unlike for example from the Sarajevo Canton where it is owed by a judge of 500 marks. So we have a very colorful situation that is not good and that makes us serious problems. We can't make strategic decisions, we can't plan anything, when we have this fragmented system of funding where there are 14 institutions we need to contact to ensure normal functioning of the judiciary. And that is why we have an obligation, given that we are participating and we have a mandate to participate in the draft law, so we believe that we are authorised to go with recommendations to Parliament and that this is not political interference. Of course, Parliament is making decisions and we do not want to influence it in any other way. Mr. Moranjkić, the results of the reform. Reform is one process and I agree that many people do not see these results and that everyone expects these reform results to be visible. All people want their cases in court to be taken immediately into work and to be completed quickly. And that makes perfect sense. But reform cannot be implemented so quickly. We've done anormic corrections, we've renamed judges, we've passed new laws and new procedures that are very effective. All processes conducted under new procedures are effective. That's what everyone will tell you, especially in the criminal area, but also in the litigation area. But the big problem is that the cases are lagging behind, and that's what gives a bad picture of the judiciary and the results of the reform, and we're probably not going to solve this problem so quickly. Right now, we're working on a strategy to solve these old cases. The plan was to solve these old cases through reserve or additional judges, and we planned to select 70, but in the end we came to 99 conclusions that we wouldn't be able to find, we don't have good, good candidates for additional judges, and besides, entities and cantons are not able to provide additional funds for additional judges. So it's a serious problem and we have to solve it another way. But we will solve it through our judicial reform projects and the information equipment of courts and prosecutors. We've secured about 1,600 computers for all courts and prosecutors who will be networked, where automatic computer tracking of the case will be. The reform of the judicial administration will allow judges to get more time to spend in the courtroom, to handle cases, and some of the jobs they've been doing so far will turn to administrative staff. So these are all steps and our projects that need to allow for the speedy resolution of these lagging objects. But in any case, we're going to bring in one program that will predict some other measures. We will probably also go with the motion for parliaments to go towards amending procedures that will allow for more effective work, perhaps increasing the jurisdiction of an individual judge to criminal offences for which a 10-year sentence is intended or the participation of a judge for some proceedings by appeal, etc. So, the space for further reform exists and that will be our future tasks. The reform also sues the negative effects that the MP pointed to and concerning Tuzla Canton, our results are not such, it seems to have been a good move. It was done to separate prosecutors from their small environments where they could be subject to different influences and thus,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18463	Just a little attention, let the President of the Council finish, a little attention, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18464	Their independence, we think that this problem of going to other courts will be resolved by agreeing with the Presidents of the Courts, in these courts is scheduled for one more day more, more criminal cases so that no time will be wasted to delay and arrive in just one case and exposed to unnecessary costs. In any case, we follow these results and you will be able to have these results in our next report, we can deliver a special report if you ask. And in the end, I really ask all the suggestions, your opinions to be discussed, because we expect to have one good co-operation. Reform is our common goal and we should work together on this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18465	Thank you, Mr. Perić. Mrs. Palavrić asked for a word, although I thought we had concluded the debate, but here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18466	Well, I thought I'd be able to refrain from commenting on this report, too, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18467	It's a little harder, though, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18468	However, it was Mr. Perić who challenged me to say something after all. I cannot accept the assessment that this reform is as successful as Mr. Perić sees it. And I'm even convinced that if we went to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg to get the same assignment as Italy that had to hire 5,000 new judges, because by reducing the number of courts and reducing the number of judges, we haven't solved the problem. Citizens wait longer, objects remain unsettled, courts cramp in debt. I will not say that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is responsible only, we are all responsible together because we are passing laws, some High Representative, some of us, but in any case the greatest responsibility is on us and on concrete moves is on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. In a recent answer to the parliamentary question, the High Judicial Council has, in my understanding, expressed a view to which judges and prosecutors, if they receive salaries from the country they come from, then they are independent. It's a guarantee of independence. On the contrary, in my opinion, they are just dependent on their government to pay them. Furthermore, I don't think it's a good choice for the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to choose a rather young judge from the ranks of expert associates. I remember the time before the war, when we came to court, when there were few young judges, but when experienced lawyers said that a man who doesn't have 35 years of life, has no life experience, he can't decide on divorce and trust a child because he didn't go through anything. So, I don't think it's very proper that we're good judges, I don't accept that all the judges who worked before the war were bad judges or that they were connected to this or that. Now these good judges, thousands of these good judges have gone to lawyers and you have a situation most often that a good lawyer comes to court and he actually knows more than a judge who needs to judge the case. I think that, above that fact, the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council should imagine and wonder what quality we have in the trial, because you have such decisions of the Federation Supreme Court, which accepts all the argument of the first-degree court and says, but I'm reducing the competition decision because it's the practice of this court. And that's the argument of new, wonderful judges. I know that judges aren't guilty of their salaries, but also of bar fees, but I've also been to a few meetings where the presidents of the courts are acting on their heads from sneezing the roof, having nowhere to sit and having millions of debts. So that's what brought us this reform. Access to the court is physically disabled if the citizen is to travel 50 km. until the first court, I don't think it's in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights and that it's easier for him to have, I say physical access to the court. To the side of that approach to legal nature. 101 There, I can say that this was more like a single replica, perhaps in effect, I call on both us and the High Court and Prosecution Council to imagine whether we have the best judges and the best prosecutors because there were also such assessments that he was good at gambling fortunately, that he was communicative, that he was everything, just not a judge.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18469	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18470	I'm sorry, I didn't sign up for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18471	I thank you, Mrs. Palavrić,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18472	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18473	Well, you can't discuss it after I've concluded, I thought you'd talk for a while, and you're giving the discussion. You should have checked in in on time then his mother got old. Let's finish the discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18474	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18475	Well, it doesn't make sense anymore, I mean, really. May I have your attention, please? So I gave the man my word, the President of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, counting that we had finished the debate and that's why it's my reaction. I apologize to Mrs. Palravrić. It's not the way I react, but it's really one discussion that goes after the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has responded here, actually this one to the discussions that were under way, and that's the only reason I'm reacting to it, because of nothing else. I'm sorry again. So I'd like to pray, colleagues, that if you want to discuss more, I'll open it up, so it's not a problem, but later we'll give the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council again. I think we've had enough discussion here, haven't we? No, but be careful what the problem is. I'm under the impression that this discussion only opens then as the debate goes on, so people come in for it, so don't do that. Then it's impossible to run this session. I beg you, then it's impossible to run this session. If you want me to run this session right, then let me, there's some order. We discuss, discuss, then let the man say what he thinks and go to the vote. And after that, the debate is reopened, and I have to react this way for Parliament's sake, and you however you choose, you should listen to me, I'm just obliged to warn you about this. Short, Mrs. Đurković and very short or short lady, here you go, here you go. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18476	So you're challenging replicas.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18477	Who?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18478	You.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18479	Listen. What have I caused the replica, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18480	Well, I guess it's normal and natural if I need to say something after Mr. Perić's exposure, that I have something to say, then I'll say it. And don't make me feel guilty about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18481	It's not your fault. There you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18482	Well, I feel guilty because you say, "Here we go." But here I'm just asking, don't make us feel guilty because we have something to say. And I actually just wanted to ask Mr. Perić, is it okay for women to re-engage brotherhood and unity, at least when it comes to judges, because it goes from Zvornik to Visno, over 250 km. A woman travels to her workplace. It makes sense for me to travel, come to Lopare, Lopare – Tuzla, from Tuzla to Lopara, from Lopar to Tuzlo, from Zvornik to Tuzlo, from Bijeljina to Tuzlo and vice versa but to go 250 km. From her house, to be seven, five days without her family, she's a mother, and that's how the family actually hangs, the family then hangs. We're still working on saving the family. I don't think that's right. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18483	May I have your attention, please? Mr. Avdić, may I have your attention, please? Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18484	Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your diplomatic performance, but I think it's inappropriate for a woman to appear in this entire discussion and you must respect, now you have 12 ladies here from 42 MPs, and to interrupt her, you take her word. I can agree, not agree with what counterpart Palavrić said, and she knows how to defend herself, I don't think she needs Ljiljana in that, and the same in a discussion in which an MP takes the right to label BiH as a mob state. You don't even tell him to use inappropriate qualifications, not proven, and the woman just gave her opinion. And as for Mrs. Đurković, it is not your fault because in this country at least it has been declared that no one is guilty until 103 is said guilty. You're the only one who might be guilty of being a woman here today, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18485	May I have your attention, please? Just a little attention. ljiljo think you knocked on the wrong ad. If there's anything you can say to me, you can't object to what you've already objected to, but here it is. Mr. Filip Andrić, here you go, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18486	I thank Mr. Chairman, I am not in this number of 12 but the rest of that part, but I am truly sorry, I was on the Commission for European Integration, while this point lasted, so I entered when Mr. Perić spoke and I am sorry that I was late, so here I have to intervene afterwards. I referred a question to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council a year and a half ago, so I restored it before I thought, one month or more, as a parliamentary question. The question came from an opportunity, why don't they agree on the structure of judges and prosecutors in Herceg-Bosnian County or you canton 10 with what kind of mark it bears by some rules, with the Constitution. Namely, there are up to 4 prosecutors, one is a Hrvat and not the chief prosecutor, of four judges one is a Hrvat and is not the president of the court. And it is generally known that in the county, according to the '91 census, more than 50% of the population is Hrvat. The same remarks may also apply to this county as my predecessors mentioned, as far as mileage is concerned. Let's say from my hometown to the main court in Livno, it's 60 miles. There live the population who are still in a larger age than they are, and indeed the ones who have a problem, and the question arises whether the court is for the sake of the people or the people for the sake of the court? And, indeed, it can be questioned, or rightly asked, what is the ultimate intention of this reorganisation of the judiciary, because if through the reorganisation it seeks to make the position of the people more difficult, if, by some strange criteria, it chooses fit and everything else, then the question is how independent is the judiciary at all. It's about us, I just don't know if it's about anyone else. But, here, I would ask you as soon as possible to answer the parliamentary question and, of course, to coordinate the structure of the judges and prosecutors of Herceg-Bosnian County, in accordance with the Constitution as you should have done long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18487	Okay. Do any of your colleagues want to talk? Does the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council want to speak? Here you go. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18488	First, the objection that there should be a larger number of courts, in order to solve some of the problems that exist at the moment. We have reduced the number of judges given European standards. We also reduced the number of courts by about 30%, also considering some standards. And we've done it all in terms of population, territory and distance. So we can increase the number of courts, but then we deviate from the standard and make higher costs and we see that we're not in a position to finance what we have. The debts of the judiciary today, with today's day, are about 16 million and they were 22 million. We've been reforming and reducing the number of courts and the number of judges, saving about 20 million marks. So these are some concrete results of the reform. We've met European standards, we've achieved savings, we've created a rational system, and now we have to make this rational system efficient. And we're going to do it through judicial reform, through further reforms, through information equipment, through some orientational standards, or standards for courts and judicial authorities. So it's not the solution to increase the number of judges and prosecutors, and we can't even increase them because we've now seen that we don't have enough professional people. Second objection, which refers to young and old judges. I assure you that we are all beginners in the judiciary because we have adopted completely new procedures. In the criminal proceedings of adversary procedures that are Anglo-Saxon and are not part of continental law, and we all learn this business. Old judges and old prosecutors have a bigger problem accepting that. I talk to these people and they say, I can't accept it. Because they've been used for 50 years to apply the continental system and the investigative principle in criminal proceedings. But these are effective procedures that produce results and these are our indicators. About 50% of the procedures are resolved by plea agreements, which is something that exists in the world and has proved to be very effective. So that's the problem. The problem of women who travel and who are separated from family. It's something we have to get used to and we have to accept. I came from Banja Luka and I switched apartments or I bought that apartment. It's just that we're used to living where we were born and we can't possibly get rid of our roots and our origins, and that's not a modern way of life. People in the world live in a triangle. They work in one place, live on another, rest on the third, and simply if someone accepts the position of judge and prosecutor, because it's well paid, they should be ready to leave their homeland, buy an apartment or sell their apartment and buy a house and thus solve the problem rather than be on the burden of the budget. Simplely enough, we now have 180 travel prosecutors, who are not in their place of residence, and for them it's a cost. But they accept it, it's simply the price to have a job and to be employed, it's just our reality and we have to accept it. Therefore, we must get rid of some of our habits. The structure of judges and prosecutors in Canton 10. We gave the answer to that question. Maybe somewhere in some particular courts and prosecutors we weren't able to honor that ethnic balance according to the '91 census. But you will see in our report, or in the contributions that you may have today, which you have received that we have fully respected at BiH level that ethnic structure, because that is, that is something that the Constitution obliges us to do, if we hadn't done so, you would have fundamentally objected to us. So if there's been some kind of disproportion in some place, in some court, there's a different case. Simply, we were forced to establish institutions, choose professional people, and 105 professional criteria were primary for us. But we've always taken care of the ethnic balance everywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18489	Thank you. That's it. I hope we've just closed the debate. Are we? Now, since I normally intend to suggest that this stenogram from today's debate, since he's pretty good at my assessment, delivers to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, that they can have on paper this, what we've been saying about their report, I'll just say one thing for a second. I think it would be worth the attention of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to consider the length of the traineeship before a judicial exam is passed, especially the length of the internship after a judicial examination, in order to obtain the conditions for someone to become a qualified candidate for a judge. I think these deadlines are long, especially these other deadlines, work as an expert associate, after a judicial examination has been passed. This may be a serious problem in the future, and I think that the issue should be paid attention. So I said this in terms of shortening those deadlines and the legal arrangement of these issues in a way that your deadlines are going to be said, and I'm saying this, just because I intend to propose now that this stenogram be delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and that what I meant, then, is now written in a stenogram. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have therefore had one broad debate, we have had a two-time announcement for the speaker of the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, we have had and we have a report from our committee in charge, it is the Constitutional First Commission which I think has drawn up a very correct report against this report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and I suggest that we take note of this report, to actually support this report and to take note of this report and to the Commission's conclusions, and to then conclude that our conclusion on receiving knowledge and stenogram is delivered to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. And I think that would be a proper way to end the debate on this matter. I'm putting forward a proposal for a vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 29 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. I thank you for the debate. I thank the representatives of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. We will therefore, in writing, address the Council with this conclusion, and with what I've been saying, you'll get it all. Thank you. You can remain in session, and if you have an obligation, you can go after your obligations, decide for yourself. Now I want to ask you colleagues and colleagues, are we gonna take a break for 15 minutes, yeah, great. So, I'm taking a break up to 15 to 6, so by 17:45, but exactly 5:45 here. 106 We continue with the work of a respected colleague and colleague. [[PAUZA]] May I have your attention, please? So, like this, we have ideas here from some colleagues and colleagues to stop working now and move on tomorrow, and we have the idea that if we're effective and we're constructive, I think we can end up in the next hour of time, I think we can end it all. I'm begging you, Jelina, I'm really tired, I have to admit, after this whole day's debate and all these powers, please, they'll come this one, but I think it's better, I think it's better to keep working today anyway. The next item of the agenda is Ad.11. Information on the state of security of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004 Any of the promoters here? They have people, don't worry, they're following us. So, from the Ministry of Security for this information, we got this information on May 13, 2005. The information was discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy. She took note of and referred to the House with the conclusion contained in the Report, that in order to prevent illegal crossover of people and goods and in general as much as possible to protect the state border of BiH, the State Border Service should, in the shortest possible time, draw up specific information on the quality of service filling and, in that sense, carry out internal control of the work of the current employees, and provide the Information to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. Here, so that's our commission's report. You read the information. I'm opening the debate, please. Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Gligorić, then Mr. Križanović, please. But if you can just for a little while, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18490	Short, a few notes. The introduction notes several of these, problematic sentences, objectively warning of the dramatic situation in BiH, and gives a negative assessment of the functioning as well as of the BiH authorities. On the other hand, it is prejudged, for example, that the last status, problems say in the environment primarily refer to the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's status, which, according to some international analysts' estimates, could adversely reflect the security situation in BiH, the guarantee of a referendum, etc. which I think should be well thought out and assessed whether it is simply imposing Bosnia and Herzegovina's thesis to connect with Kosovo's status, which is unacceptable and beyond any sense or other, as the global strategy of combating... in the world directly affects security developments in BiH. First of all, due to the fact that parts of Alkaid are present in BiH according to estimates of some international security entities. Again, simply unfounded assessments, there are no relevant data, are referred to as some sources of the international community. Come on, people, I mean, if you're already talking about sources, specificize the sources. What are the sources, which secret service, which countries, says there are in Bosnia and 107 Herzegovina of that and so on. Which means, there really are some qualifications that I think are at least quite controversial. In the end, this list of measures I couldn't possibly support it really, should try first one, measure one. The measure under one of the border commissions has done their part of the job, agreed on the border line. Drawings and signatures. So it remains on the interstate council to establish and simply enable Serbia-Montenegro to sign this border line agreement between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro, knowing well some illogical points that have not been solved yet, the Bajina Basta Hydropower Plant, I don't know either Zvornik Hydropower Plant, etc. So the first point is wrongly addressed. The border commissions have completed their part of the job. A simple co-operation council between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro should be addressed. Under three, it says, brings a programme of social care to an ever-increasing number of socially endangered categories of the population. Well, that's what we've got, that conclusion keeps repeating itself. And in the end, it's not even the Department of Security's job, is it? Two. Under three, he says, bring a strategy to fight all types of corruption and tax and customs evasion at BiH level. My colleagues dear and colleague, brought me the Anti-Corruption Strategy three years ago, yes. Then say it's useless and bad and it needs to be done again. Under four, they brought in a strategy to fight poverty, fellow Members. There's no mention of him anywhere. This means that these conclusions should be easily reconstructed, but reformed. It is thus 13th in the area.....to activate all relevant ministries and introduce unique traffic security regulations. Well, we're in the process of passing the law. Is that so, which will define all traffic relations, and in this context means ensuring continued and effective implementation of the demining in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Take mental warning measures on mines, permanent markings to reduce the risk to the population. Well, that's a constant measure. It's a simple job we've been doing for 10-15 years after Dejton in Bosnia and Herzegovina and it doesn't need to be particularly apostropheeded, etc. So I really suggest that this part of the proposal should be taken into account, if possible, a little reconstruction. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18491	You see, dear colleagues and colleagues, my colleague Raguž and I have now debated a little bit about this session and things like this. We now have several very serious points of the agenda. So Information on the state of security, Information on the state of responsibility, external responsibility of the financial, external responsibility of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposal for a conclusion of the Human Rights Commission on these decertified police officers, Initiative of the Club of MPs to establish a committee for the adoption of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Anthem, and then, here would be those three or four agenda points that require a very serious debate. I think that we are quite tired today so that we can now give full attention to what it's called these points of the agenda, and it's our suggestion that we now actually leave these points of the agenda as the agenda of the first next session, if 108 you can accept, and we're going to end this 15th point of the agenda, the 16th point of the agenda and the 17th and 18th point of the agenda. I think we can finish them real quick. Please nice, I'm asking you now, so please nice
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18492	Only the Špir bothered us to get to the constructive
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18493	Please, now, so, my colleague Raguž and I have analysed this, so really now, after we have discussed Mr Sead Avdić in which he pointed out serious problems, as he calls himself, with this information and in this state we are in, and tomorrow we cannot hold a session, because some colleagues are busy, the day after tomorrow, the leadership of Parliament travels to Kuwait for a visit to the Kuwait Parliamentary Assembly, I suggest, so the College proposes that point 12, point 12, point 12, point 13 and point 14 be left for the first next session. So let's get them off the agenda today. I'm asking you, are you up for it? Prepare to vote. Please, we're past 10. It's a report from the D.A.'s Attorney General. That's what we've been through. So, I'm speaking specifically now, please let us know what we're voting on. So Information on the State of Security, one, Information on the State of External Liabilities, two, Proposal for a Human Rights Commission Conclusion on Decertified Police Officers, that is three and four SDP Club Initiative on the establishment of a Committee on the adoption of the text of the Bosnia and Herzegovina State Anthem. So, these four points to be mandatory points of the first next session that will be the end of this month. We're voting on it, are you up for it? Prepare to vote. I don't know. The board will show. Vote now. - 29 for, no problem, no abstentions. Enough entity majority. I find that these four points were removed from the agenda of this session and classified as the agenda of the first next session. There's no discussion about whether they're on the agenda or not. We've come forward once, and they're going to be the agenda of the first next session of this house to be the end of this month. 109 We are now going to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission in order to reach an agreement on the law in the same text - the Law on Convergence, - the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina The Law on Competition and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina were adopted in various texts in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. For this reason, it is necessary to have members from this home in the Joint Commission in order to bring the same text of these laws into line. They're being proposed to the Joint Commission. So, please, for the Competition Act of the Mrs., so for the Competition Act it is Mr. Hazim Felić, further Mr. Filip Andrić and Novaković, Novaković who is third. Yes, you can. Please. Tihomir Gligorić. So, for the Competition Act, please pay attention only to a little Hazim Felić, Filip Andrić and Tihomir Gligorić. For the State Service Act. Ćeman Mirsad, further, Vinko Zorić and how Mišić Nenad. There's no Ćeman here. Then Nadžida Mlaćo. Nadžida Mlaćo, Zorić Vinko and Nenad Mišić. You heard the suggestions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 25 for, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority. We adopted these commissions. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. Giving consent to ratification: (a) Agreement between the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the establishment of the Office for War Crimes and the Department for Organized Crimes, Economic Crime and Corruption and the Corruption of the Criminal and Appeal Department of the Court of BiH, as well as the Special Department for War Crimes and Special Department for Organized Crime, Economic Crime and Corruption of the Croatian Republic of BiH, (b) The Treaty on Loan (Regional Programme for Road Development) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, (c) Note of the Agreement between the Governor of the Central Bank of Libya and the Croatian Republic of Croatia, (f) the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the Exchange of Real Estates – Lands for the Construction of Diplomatic Representatives in Sarajevo and the Key of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia to the Republic of Croatia to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic Okay. Are you trying to make a statement about these agreements in the package? We're pleading on package agreements. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 28 for, no problem, three abstentions, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has given its consent to ratification and under (a) the Agreement between the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the establishment of the Office of the Register of War Crimes and the Department of War Crimes and the Department of the Department of organized crime, economic crime and corruption of the Criminal and Appeal Department of the Court of BiH, as well as the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for organized crime, economic crime and corruption of the Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Justice of BiH, (b) the Treaty on Loans (Region Programme for Road Development of the Republic of Croatia) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Croatian Republic of Croatia on the NC of the Croatian Republic of Croatia, the Key to the Croatian Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Republic of Croatia. We're going to the 17th point of the Ad.17 agenda. The appointment of a resolution of the members of the House's committees As there has been a change in the membership of the HDZ Democratic Club, we have received a proposal from the club on changes in the membership of committees. The HDZ Democratic Club proposes the following members in committees: - Ruža Sopta to be appointed member of the Administrative Commission instead of Ivo Mire Jović; - Filip Andrić to be appointed member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission instead of Ivo Mire Jović; - Vlatka Komšić to be appointed a member of the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, instead of ruža Sopta; - Vlatka Komšić to be appointed to the Committee for Gender Equality instead of Ivo Lozančić and - Ivo Lozančić to be appointed a member of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs in place of Filip Andrić. You heard the suggestion. I'm opening a debate. In addition, within this agenda point, we should also make a decision on the resolution of Nikola Špirić's membership to the Administrative Commission for the reason that there was an error in filling this commission, because we have one spare member. Mr. Špirić has agreed to this. 112 So we vote on this. So everything in the package. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Please. He won't object. He gave consent. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You got it. - 28 for, against no, abstention 2. Enough entity majority. I understand that we have therefore made these changes and that we have resolved Mr Špirić from the Administrative Commission. Point 18 of the agenda is Ad.18. Proposal for a conclusion on the procedure for the appointment of three members of the Electoral Commission You have received a proposal for a conclusion. You've seen how to overcome this question from that conclusion. It was agreed to the College this morning. I have no intention of repeating things. It is the fact that by 30.6. until the term of office of foreign members of the Election Commission, this House shall appoint domestic members of the Election Commission in order for the Election Commission to be in full capacity and that it is practically a warrant for the ad hoc commission to call a public competition, to maximumly cut deadlines and to offer us a list of candidates to be declared at the next session, which is most likely to be held on 28 this month. I'm opening a debate. Please. Don't. Okay. All right. Then I'm closing the argument. We're moving on to a plea. Prepare to vote. We are voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Vote now. - 29 for, no problem, one abstention. Enough entity majority. We've adopted this conclusion. I ask the sekretarijat to report immediately to the Electoral Commission. They booked a place in both the newspapers and the newspapers that tomorrow and at the latest on Friday, a public ad, a competition and thus we adopted this conclusion, and our members here from Parliament ad hoc commission to know that this job must be completed by the latest 28th time we have a session here. We're planning a session of the 28th, but we'll see the day up, day forward, day back. That's how we ended the 18th agenda. Mr. Vinko Zorić picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18494	...to report this home that we've held an ad hoc commission and that the competition will come out the day after tomorrow and that it will take eight days. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-08-0.u18495	Thank you, Vinko, for this information. So this is another proof that we have a guarantee that we will meet our obligation even though the ad hoc commission was late and that, we will not put the Election Commission in a position that it cannot work. This is how I conclude today's 58th session of the House of Representatives at 18 hours and 15 minutes. It was planned, a little attention only, that was planned according to what I have so far been informed that we have a plenary session of both homes this month at the request of the Council of Ministers on economic issues, and we thought that we held a session of our home 29th so the day before, but then it was scheduled to appear a session of the House of Peoples. Then we'll probably have a session of the House of Representatives. Thank you, and I'll see you probably 28.
