ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16245	I invite you to take your seats so we can start working. Members, distinguished guests, I am opening the 51st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I welcome you once again by opening the 51st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I find that we have enough MPs in Sali right now, so there are 35 MPs present in Sali. I expect other MPs to join the work of this session. Today's session was announced by Mr Zlatko Lagumdžija and Nenad Mišić, because of the illness, and these are the only announcements we have and the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I realize that today's session has a quorum, new MPs keep coming in, so I can't tell you the final number, we'll tell you during the session, mostly now it's 35-36 MPs in Sali. The services report their presence. Ladies and gentlemen, you've received a draft agenda for today's session. The only change in terms of the agenda set out in the call for today's session is the point of the 9th agenda, which you received in this renewed, new invitation, this morning on the parliamentary benches and it refers to the appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Bank of BiH. As you know, the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH passed this law in something different text, and it is necessary to form a commission, in order to bring the text into line and then adopt the commission's report at home again. So you've got here, the updated agenda and here's the explanation and I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here's who wants to talk about the agenda. Mr. Molorad Živković, please. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16246	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, and I insisted on the enlarged College, but I would also like to inform this House that at the last session, as part of the agenda, we have discussed the conclusion we have proposed and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has asked the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Defence to provide complete information at the first next session on the inspection of the barracks by Han Pijesk and to report to this House on the possible involvement of military persons in the hiding of war crimes suspects in that barracks in the summer of 2004. And this Dom is a large majority vote, I don't know if anyone was against it, has agreed to be a part of the agenda at this session. We practically voted on the agenda at this 51st session. It is clear to me that the Council of Ministers, more precisely the Ministry of Defence, may not have the full information at present, but it would be quite clear that we put it as a point of the agenda, even if we get the notice that this item of the agenda is not fully ready, although I believe there is something else behind it, which is to be added first, such inspections to the High Representative, and then to this House, which I find inadmissible, and this House is at the last session, showing it by voting for this conclusion. Thank you. So that should be the 10th point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16247	I thank Mr. Živković. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16248	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have noticed by reading the minutes that there is another conclusion that has given the commitment either to the Kolegijum or to this Parliament regarding a commission that should make up the working text of the wage law and, in my view, it was even a place to establish that commission immediately, or to be given to representatives of these members. If not, then he should have done it to the Kolegijum, if not, I'm talking to me, then it should be done today, so I suggest that you, to be given a valid answer for it or to set up that commission to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16249	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Dear ladies and gentlemen, if no one is answering for a word, I am concluding a debate on the agenda, and I am giving the next comment. When it comes to Mr. Milorad Živković's discussion, we had this issue this morning at an extended college. I gave the answers there and since the question is also being asked at the session, here I will give the answer here at the session. So, after last session, the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly sent the conclusion we adopted to the BiH Ministry of Defence and the competent authorities with the aim of getting information about the issue Mr Živković proposed in his conclusion. Until today, we haven't gotten that information, and of course, since the information hasn't arrived, it's not included in the agenda. I don't think it can be the subject of the agenda until information is obtained. We can only insist on 3 of that, to urinate the delivery of that information. However, the MP insists that it be put on the agenda today, so the MP insists that it be placed on the agenda and I, of course, don't mind that we vote on it even though we didn't get that information, but here I am, presenting my opinion as chairman explaining why this is not on the agenda. And now we'll move on to the vote on Mr. Živković's proposal. Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16250	To protect the dignity of this House, as well as the dignity of you as chairman, Mr. Džaferović, I would like to say that you have not received any answer or notice of what is with this information. We would have been much more pleased here if we had received the answer that this information was currently being processed, that it was not able to the Ministry of Defense to deliver it at this session, but you did not get any answer. For that reason, I ask that this be the point of the agenda, to get any notice, what happens to that information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16251	Thank you, Mr. Živković. That's how we understood each other. Of course I didn't get any answer, since I didn't get any answer, I couldn't even get an answer at what stage it was made or what it was doing in the competent ministry to which it was sent, and of course I put your request on the vote, to make it the 10th item of the agenda. I invite you to prepare for a plea. Prepare to plead. Vote now. 17 is for, 16 against, a sufficient entity majority. The adopted agenda item, therefore the 10th item of the agenda, which is therefore the report by the Council of Ministers, or the Council of Ministers withdraws the Ministry of Defence on the inspection carried out by Han Pijesk for the conclusion. As far as Mr. Moranjkić's request is concerned, I want to inform him, he is the proposal, he has set his proposal alternatively, so either to be the point of the agenda or to get information. I also inform Mr Moranjkić and all of you, that the College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, at this morning's session, discussed the issue. Our conclusion, that a working group will form a bill on salaries in all BiH institutions, was forwarded to the Council of Ministers for Implementation, asking the Council of Ministers to be like his job is whether, an institution that will coordinate these activities and, of course, offer that group and enter into the draft of this law that was proposed at the last session. 4 Here, that's my notice. Are you happy, Mr. Moranjkić? Yes, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, then I declare that today's 51st session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is the first one. Record of the 50th House of Representatives session, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Proposal for a Law on Postings of Bosnia and Herzegovina (First Reading), 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 5. Proposal for a decision on the sale of immovable property – Proposer of the Council of Ministers, 6. Report by the Commission to achieve gender equality on visits to Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal correctional institutions in which prisons are held by women, 7. Discussing the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004, 8. Giving consent to ratification: (a) the European Convention on Extradition, (b) the Council of Europe Convention – the Convention on the Washing, Search, Temporary Substantiation and Substantiation of Income Obtained by Crimes, 9. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Central Bank of BiH, 10. Report by the Council of Ministers - Ministry of Defence, on an inspection of the barracks at Han Pijesk. This is the agenda for today's session. We move to the first item of the agenda that is, Ad.1. A record from the 50th session of the House of Representatives you received in materials for today's session. I'm opening a debate as per the record. Does anyone want to talk? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić answered the question, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just one correction. On page 3 of my MP's question, there's a realisation of the Brcko Bunja Bridge. Since Bunja does not exist as a place anywhere in the ex-hospital, I ask that it be corrected as I said and as it stands written and it is Gunja.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16253	I believe it's a printing mistake. You're absolutely right. Any other objections to the record? 5 If no one is answering for a word anymore, I would like to conclude a discussion on the minutes and suggest that this House adopt the proposed text of the minutes with the correction proposed by Mr Muhamed Moranjkić. Please prepare to vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously adopted the 50th session, 37 for, no one against, no one abstention, a sufficient entity majority. I thank you. Moving to the second item of the agenda is that, Ad2. Parliamentary questions and answers Dear ladies and gentlemen, for this session we have received answers to questions asked by Mr Adem Huskić, a question raised at the 48th session. Mirsad Ćeman, Momčilo Novaković and Vinko Zorić, asked questions at the 50th session of this House. I call upon the distinguished gentlemen to orderly as I read them are manifested if they consider the answers they received from the institutions that were in charge of providing answers to their questions. Do any of the appointed ones want to talk? Mr. Adem Huskić, may Mr. Momčilo Novaković be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16254	Thank you. I've got the answer to the question. I don't think the answer contains the full truth. I'm not going to ask another question today, but I'm probably going to ask another question or more questions about the same subject at one of the next sessions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16255	Thank you, Mr. Huskić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word and he has a word, please, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16256	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I did not actually get an answer to the parliamentary question, but part of the answer to the parliamentary question. In fact, I have sought the structure of my own, therefore, the staff of the State Service Agency and the Directorate for European Integration. All I got was the National Service Agency, and I didn't get this second part of the answer. I expect I'll probably get it in the next period. 6 As for this answer, I also did not get an answer to what I was looking for. In fact, I asked that it be decidently and completely clear to me how many employees are in a permanent working relationship, how much compared to a certain time, how much on the basis of the contract and coffee is national representation in certain ways, forms of employment. And I didn't get what really confirms then one suspicion that in these institutions as well as in many other institutions at BiH level there is no or no respect for the criteria of national employment. I even got the answer here, that it's important to be professional, that it's not a question of civil servants being professional, to be professional, to know how to do their job? This is understood, regardless of national criteria, but the national criterion is something that must be separated from this aspect of expertise. Because expertise is understood in every variant. What I especially want to read here is a sentence and believe that I've read it several times. According to the National Service Agency, a public ad has been issued for two jobs of civil servants who has been published informically on the official website of the Agency and we are expecting a publication in official newspapers soon. I don't know how long that period has to go by since the publication means, on the website and to publish in the official newsletters, which, again and again, leads me into the confusion that there is an intention even from the Agency that should take care of the most, that there is a conscious intention, means that there is certainly not one of the most significant criteria in employment. I will probably, when I get an answer from this other Directorate for European Integration, have to repeat the question, since I am not satisfied with the answer I have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16257	I thank Mr. Novaković. Here they are not present in Sali or Mr. Ćeman, nor Mr. Vinko Zorić, so we will ask them at one of the next sessions, let the service take care of that, if they consider it necessary to comment on the answers to the questions they have received. In this way, I conclude this first part of point 2 of our agenda and we move to part two of the agenda, these are asking new parliamentary questions. And I invite you to ask questions, please. Mr. Adem Huskić answered the first word, and have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself. This is what I saw with my hands, and here we have more registered, we have Momčilo Novaković, Filip Andrić, Joza Križanović. That's what we have electronically reported here. Well, let's get that order going. Here you go, Mr. Adam.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for BiH Club, and I assume other MPs, have received one protest letter signed by five NGOs from the region of Prijedor and Sansko Most, and it is related to the 7th appointment of Goran Nović as director of the OSE-Medicals Education Directorate. The letter contains some qualifications which, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Party for BiH, should be checked, but is addressed to nine addresses. I normally refer the question to three addresses that are somehow related to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is the chairman of the Parliamentary Commission for Oversight over the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is how BiH is addressed. I'm asking, those meanings that I've listed, which I've sent this protest to, what are they going to do or have already done about this content of this protest?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16259	Thank you very much. You're just gonna deliver us in writing, that your question is whether, that document we've all got is whether, the protest is actually, just your question of course, it's necessary. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, may Mr. Momčilo Novaković be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is similar to what my colleague said outside. These days, information means have been published by scandalous staffing of executives in SIPA and OSI. I ask the Council of Ministers, what were the criteria for receiving these personnel, and who decided that? And secondly, are the exact information about the close past of these called people, who have recently been placed in the leading places in these extremely important structures of the BiH institution, such as SIPA and OSA and who are responsible, if the information is correct, who will and what measures will they take? Thank you. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16261	And we're looking for a question in writing. Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, get ready for Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16262	I'm gonna ask this one first, and then I'm just gonna explain it for a little while. How much on the account of the indirect tax administration has the funds collected from sales taxes and excise taxes from 02.01.2005? What is the dynamic of the arrival of these funds? How much does it belong to the Republic of Serbia, and is the emptying carried out in accordance with the law? In fact, according to some information, I have to say that I haven't checked with the Administration the accuracy of that information. A few days ago, there were 20,8 million KMs in the accounts, and the funds were not emptied, so the funds were not emptied according to the entity's budgets, i.e. the entity's institutions. Is it therefore something that we have in the adoption of the law and in the commission debate, people on the commission have warned of the difficult circumstances in the application of these laws, it is now a very different question, but it is evident that the law is not being implemented and that it is clearly not respected that member of the law that we have said that the discharge of the must is being carried out. So exactly in the dynamics of how it is predicted, or gathering once a week, and discharge immediately thereafter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16263	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović. Have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I rarely ask any representative questions, I'll take advantage of the opportunity, so I'll ask two. Both have been reconfigured to the conclusions of this house and I will refer them to the BiH Council of Ministers. Namely, at the 34th session of this house, held on 23. On the 04th of last year, Dom concluded that he had obliged the Council of Ministers to propose a Restitution Act within 3 months. So, today after 8 months, from that date or 5 months after that deadline set by the Council of Ministers, we find out that there is a State Restitution Commission. My question to the Council of Ministers is - what is the mandate of this state commission? Secondly, when will the Council of Ministers finally refer the draft law on restitution to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? The second question, at the same session, was reached, which obliged the Council of Ministers to inform this house within 30 days about the so-called nationalised property, with a special reference to the following – on which basis was it returned to those assets, which institutions and individuals, and what kind of property was it? So after eight months of then and seven months after that deadline, there's no information. The question to the Council of Ministers is – will it, and if it can, when will the Council of Ministers inform this house according to this conclusion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16265	I thank Mr. Joza Križanović. Mr. Filip Andrić. And we don't have any more logs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, before I ask the question, I would like to remind you that ten days ago, it has just been a year since the arrest of a member of the BiH presidency, the chairman of Mr. Ante Jelavić and Mr. Miroslav Prce and Miroslav Rupčić, where he has expressed doubts about the legality of the arrest, or 9 circumstances under which the arrest took place, so we have arranged an investigative commission somewhere in February of last year, which has done its part of the job. We had a discussion about the report at this house, somewhere I think at the end of the summer, and then we didn't bring it, we didn't adopt a report, we asked for opinions from two ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Security at the Council of Ministers. We got those answers at the end of the 10th of the 11th month, as I recall and here until the day, today nothing was done about it. So my question to the College, when will it come to the agenda and does it even mean to put it in the report more on the agenda? Here, I want an answer or I want to see it even better on the agenda of the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16267	I thank Mr. Andrić. Anyone else want to ask a question? I don't have any more reports. Then I thank you and conclude the second item of the agenda. I call on all entities to which parliamentary questions have been referred to to provide answers to MPs' questions by next session. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are going to the third item of the agenda called Ad.3. The proposed postal law of BiH, the first reading of the bill to Parliament was delivered on 06 December 2004 and was forwarded to lawmakers on the same day. The bill promoter is the Council of Ministers. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 December last year. The committee responsible for this law is the Commission for Transport and Communications. A report from the committee responsible, we received on 18 January 2005. The commission report you received. As you have seen, the commission adopted 13 amendments to the text of the law that came from the BiH Council of Ministers. At the plenary stage, we received three amendments submitted by MP Izet Hadžić to the amendments. We're considering the bill in our first reading. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who wants to talk? Here you go. Mr. Milorad Živković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16268	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have a commission report ahead. I believe that the law is fundamentally good, that it has a constitutional principle and that BiH is needed, that the amendments adopted by the commission, which were to say that the improvement of this law has greatly improved the law, especially amendments that are closer to laying down some provisions of the law. These amendments are practically principled. Simply this parliament has on several occasions asked the Council of Ministers to opt out in the future which centres will be deployed to BiH in which cities. 10 Until today we have not received such proposals from the Council of Ministers, and this Parliament has, on several occasions, also through parliamentary issues and here in the debate on laws, spent a lot of time determining the headquarters of individual institutions. For this reason, and I also thank the Commission for seeing these same principles, we adopted the amendment, that this headquarters should be in Doboj. I wouldn't elaborate much on this because this is the first reading and it's only about the principles of the law, but one of the principles of law must be to write centres and not to be determined by any Council of Ministers, any other, by the will of the Council of Ministers, by the authority of the institution. And I think it's a good principle, that this Parliamentary Assembly, if the Council of Ministers has no capacity and has no political responsibility, is responsible enough to say in advance which city it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16269	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić, then Mr. Izet Hadžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first reading, but objectively, the Commission has brought together some of its amendments to the existence of this law. Two are the key to that argument. The Council of Ministers suggests that it may be on the stamp issued and the entity's marking. And now, the Commission simply takes the right to say it has to be an entity label. So why is this imposed on entities and why is this political will so denied by our commission and the amendment becoming an integral part of the law? We've received from the Council of Ministers an entirely tolerated proposal. And in this context, indeed, what the Commission needs to do in such a way to politicise this law. That's one thing. Second, it determines the place simply of the operator, or the headquarters of the Agency. Well, how come the Commission that didn't offer minimum arguments, economic, technical, operational, I don't even know what kind of, simply determines the Doboj place? What isn't Banja Luka, say, or Mostar? Let's ask. Who really set up Doboj's place? By what criteria did he determine Doboj's place? So why are we really the Council of Ministers so derrogating, those same parties where the ministers are sitting in the Council of Ministers. I can't figure it out. I once again express my disdain, why simply parties whose representatives, presidents sitting in the Council of Ministers, subsequently break and correct the law? Is that an order from the top of the party or what's going on? What is going on in this House? Let's ask ourselves more once. Why, really? I ask the Commission, what arguments have you motivated to propose Doboj as a place first, and on the other hand, how does the Parliamentary Assembly take it upon itself to determine the place, simply by a political decision, because it is not a political decision, people. It's a matter of economic, technical, operational and any other reason. And why don't you trust the Council of Ministers? Here, I... I believe. Let him determine the location of the agency. What this Parliament simply through lobbys and I don't know what, to put it harshly, is simply trying, politically simply to make marketing to certain regions, cities, etc. It really doesn't make sense. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16271	Thank you, Mr. Avdić. The replica was answered by Mr. Živković, before we gave the word to Mr. Izeg Hadžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16272	Although it is my proposal, namely the SNSD proposal on the Commission and it is Doboj, I will try with a little less passion than my colleague Avdić, to talk about it, especially since we do not have his proposal to be Tuzla. I, with so much passion, haven't explained the possibility of Derk, or another agency being in Tuzla, and if he's patient enough, I'll give him enough arguments why it would be Doboy. For a simple reason, I believe that this Parliamentary Assembly has the political weight and the political will to say that BiH should be a decentralised country. It's one of the political ones. On the other hand, if the Council of Ministers is not getting up and we have seen several times that it is not up to be concrete in the law, to say what that place is, or to say the wrong place, so there are debates here, whether or not it is true, because there is political will here, then I see no reason why it could not be brought to the commission, and it is the right of any MPs to dispute it. It's a regional center. Doboj is equally away from Banja Luka and from Sarajevo and Tuzla. A little further from Mostar, but it's a very fast ship and nuts. It also has enough capacity, spatial capacity, slightly less human, even less material and technical, to be a center. He's also a traffic center, too. You have the capacity to say why Tuzla would be a center for an agency, why Zenica would be a centre for an agency, and so is Doboj, who is not to talk about the census now and how it was during the war, this law also states that the census, or the employees, should be by that means, has enough arguments to be. And why would Banja Luka be? Here you are talking about Banja Luka from the Federation, why would she be Banja Luka? Why Banja Luka must be part of BiH where all institutions will go and Sarajevo will be part of the Federation where all institutions will go. Here, once again, I thank all those in the Commission who have recognised the political will of this Parliament to go into decentralisation and this time be Doboj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16273	I thank Mr. Živković. The word came from Mr. Izet Hadžić, then a gentleman, and these are replicas, whether it is a replica to Jovanović, yes. Then, Mr. Jovanović's replica and then the replica of Mr. Sead Avdić, it is. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16274	Well, you see, I don't think there's any point in this kind of bile discussion and Mr. Avdić's reaction. So the MP and member of the Commission had the right to propose, he proposed an amendment, explained, talked to responsible people, he explained it all. The Commission voted, so there is no need for this reaction at all, that is, to respond to the Commission's report, so that means both Mr Avdić and everyone who have, I think Mr Hadžić has proposed.... Amendments, so this will be voted on, so there is really no need for such a bile discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16275	Thank you, Mr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16276	So I think this one of mine... is just proof that without emotion it can be difficult to discuss these issues. Coliga Živković once again proves to the honourable MP, that it was simply a politically motivated determination of Doboj headquarters, without offering any sufficient argument in the economic, technical, operational, any other sense, why it should be Doboj. That's one question. The second question is, the Parliamentary Assembly and the legislative authority is not dealing with executive issues. This is a breach of the Council of Ministers' authority. It's a objective intrusion. The Council of Ministers, based on relevant, technical, economic and each other, makes a simple decision on where the Agency will be headquartered. And why not trust the Council of Ministers. And below 3. The Commission should safeguard itself simply by such a conditionality, harshly said rash decision, in order not to simply repeat it one more time, it is not good for the House of Representatives to make political decisions, to determine the head office of the agency. It's not just political decisions. I'd say they're not any political decisions in a serious country. So, there are other arguments that need to be made to prove that it's Doboy. No problem at all, if it's Doboy. Connecting other centres, etc. We can open up the discussion, it's no problem, but objectively whether he should have convinced me that Doboy was really from the point of view of his position, his functions, his roles, etc. A simple, adequate, right place for the agency's headquarters. I don't mind Doboy. But someone needs to prove to this House. And on the other hand, I do not accept, repeat the functions, or the obligations of the Council of the Minstars. And why not trust the Council of Ministers, it will really make a correct decision and determine the place of the agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16277	Please calm these replicas down a little, let the people come to us for discussion. Very short, therefore, Selim Bešlagić, very short and anon Mr. Živković for the third time on this agenda point, very short, please. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16278	I, unfortunately, want to replicate my colleague Avdić. It is not true that this parliament cannot make a decision on the Agency's headquarters. We've brought it, this is the Parliament that brought the Derk headquarters to Tuzla, with an argument. Please, if it made any sense that the Railway Corporation was based in Doboy, I agree. But since this parliament has repeatedly asked the Council of Ministers to deliver the proposal to this parliament on several occasions, so we would not, we would not argue like this, for the first time I decided not to ask the Council of Ministers to deliver it again, I voted in favour of the Doboj's proposal. Whether it has enough or not enough arguments, but if the Council of Ministers as a Parliamentary Assembly does not want to, that information on these matters, then I think it is the duty of this assembly to take a position once, or if the Council of Ministers will deliver this proposal, or if the Minsitarian Council will make a decision, or if this Parliament will make a decision where it is based, respecting any argument that can be made. The second thing that's very important, this is reading in the first, first reading. I think we should have voted yes on the principles. You have a proposal from the Commission, you have an amendment, a correct amendment made by Mr Izet Hadžić, where we will identify ourselves at the end, whether these amendments have been accepted or not, or whether they are going to the Commission. I do not see any more reason, to place a position on the Council of Ministers to distract this parliament in that it will not carry out the conclusions that this Parliament has made. For these reasons, I have replicated Mr Avdić because as a member of the Commission, if I do not have the right to discuss amendments to MPs, then I think it is absurd for me to sit there. For these reasons, I think we should go to the first reading to pass and then go to the amendments that Mr Izet Hadžić correctly gave, and I think that from the 20th and how many amendments the Commission adopted, to the 3th we only have, I would say the amendment to this, Mr Hadžić's remark, that the Commission was doing its job extremely. And I would like to... don't give us any lessons from the Commission's work, we have regulations, and we have statutes that we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16279	Thank you. Please don't make any discussions under the replica company. The replica may take a maximum minute and be brief. Answer the quote briefly. Mr. Živković, replica. Have Mr. Izet Hadžić prepare for the discussion. After that, I sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16280	At the meeting of the Commission, other than the Commission's representative, there were representatives of the Council of Ministers and there were no major objections to my amendment. So, if there was as much opposition as Mr. Avdić is doing, then I'd be getting some substantiated data by now if it wasn't the right center. Since there are no such reactions from the Council of Ministers, I am really wondering if only Mr. Avdić should be this one, gets about that Doboj is a perfectly appropriate place to be, and Doboj is a large enough centre to be able to have at least two agencies and 14 Railway Traffic Agency, which probably belongs to him, but also has enough capacity to have this agency which, as you all know, does not contain many employees, is also a very small agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16281	Thank you. Mr. Izet Hadžić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16282	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that working at the Commission for Transport and Communications is very convenient and very nice, to say, with the great agreement of all the members of the Commission, that the laws that lie ahead of this commission are maximumly completed, repaired, without great burdens. I can say, within the framework, I would like to emphasise this, however, I would like to perhaps consult with a number of members of the Commission, to dispute that amendment number VIII has passed on the commission. As I recall, this amendment didn't go through on the commission, and the report says it passed. I think I remember well the results of the vote and the discussion to say, when this amendment has not passed and I believe that in the Commission's report on this amendment it should be disputed or possibly that the Commission should say, once again, meet its report to say, work. As far as the principles are concerned, when it comes to this law, I suspect that the law has been quite well done, I'm afraid we may have broken one principle on the commission. I'm not saying legal professions, but the principle of equality between citizens or collective equality when it comes to tampering. This primarily refers to the amendment adopted by the Commission, to say that employment is on a prudential basis in the Agency. I think there's an important principle here in this country of equality of citizens for the employment and collective equality of peoples and citizens, to say that it's badly damaged here and to say, because of these two facts, I would suggest that this one return to the Komiji for once more harmonisation of its report and possibly as a question of this principle to say equality of employment. So much, thank you and the amendments will... if there's another reading, the amendment phase.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16283	Thank you. You'll give me your word if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16284	The speaker, Mr. Džaferović, answered for the word, to prepare Ruža Sopta.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16285	Dear colleagues, colleagues, I think this law may be a good cause or a good opportunity to talk about some things when it comes to the adoption of the law at the Parliamentary Assembly and our relationship to the laws through all stages of the procedures that the laws are going through. The first thing I think is that it must not be questionable, is that the commission or every working body of this House must adhere to the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Commission has violated the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina with its reports. In Article 10. 15 of this law, it is said, is being formed by the BiH Postal Traffic Agency and that the Agency is being managed by the Agency by three members on a parity basis by three constitutive peoples in BiH. All right. However, the Commission goes further and completely contrary to the Constitution of BiH, submits an amendment and adopts an amendment to Article 10(7) (a) in which the Council of Ministers proposes that the number and structure of the necessary working responsibilities be determined by the Agency's Council and, in their engagement, ensure that the constituent peoples are represented in the list of BiH according to the plan of staff of the Agency. And the Council of Ministers violates the Constitution, in fact, gives a vague formulation, because it is completely unclear what is the parity of the constituent peoples according to the 1991 census, I guess proportionally, not parity, and I could consider this a mistake. Maybe it's not a mistake. I don't know. But be careful what the Commission does. Instead of pointing out this inaccuracy or pointing to this mistake, which is her constitutional task, our commission says the words are deleted from this text according to the BiH list. And then, according to the Commission's proposal, you have the text, that the number and structure of the required staff is directed by the Agency's Council and, in their engagement, ensure the parity of the constitutive peoples according to the Agency's plan, point. This is the Commission's proposal. This is not how BiH institutions are filled with staff. We can negotiate on executive functions, work staff, no deal. Under the BiH Constitution, it is a proportional system, according to the 1991 census. I don't want to spread the story right now, and to other things, I'm sick of this opportunity just to say this. So our commission broke the BiH Constitution. I want to draw attention to all working bodies that in future work we must adhere to the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House. Secondly, it does not refer to the sphere of violation of the Constitution, it concerns the Commission’s assessment. I know that the Council of Ministers was to deliver a plan to distribute BiH's headquarters across BiH, not only Mostar, Banja Luka, ngo across the BiH centre. I come from Zenica, and I didn't suggest that any institutions should be in Zenica by now, because there is no plan. And I'm waiting for that plan, not all of them, some, not key institutions. But it happens to us that in our commissions, according to the assessment of a few people on the commission, amendments are adopted and said, the headquarters and the institutions here and here. Completely uncritical and with the absence of any relevant indicators. Please, who can suggest that next to a post office building on the coast here, which is a symbol of the BiH state, who has the heart to suggest that the Postage Agency's headquarters not be in that building, that it be somewhere else, even in Doboj. That's something to be taken care of. And I ask you nicely this law, as it has come from the Commission, is totally unacceptable to me and I will vote against this law unless this proposal passes to return this to the Commission so that the Commission will declare this law again. That's it, thank you. Mr. Milorad Živković, replica of my discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16286	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to take into consideration the first part of your discussion because I believe that the chairman of the Commission will say something about it, yours, to say a party friend in power. I'm going to say to the part you mentioned in the 16th part about Sarajevo and who can propose and who has the heart, I have the heart, I have the constitutional right, and I have this business section that gives me the right to propose amendments that will be adopted or challenged. And believe that it's quite enough for someone to have hearts and minds to say that it doesn't have to be Sarajevo every time, and it doesn't have to be Sarajevo, and you have enough of your own, in the Council of Ministers of Subparol to propose to Zenica, but I don't think that Zenica's already got any agency somewhere, so there's no reason to fight in this way like I'm fighting for Doboj, even though there's a Prime Minister even though he's got a member of the chairman so far he's got nothing and apparently someone else has to propose it on behalf of Dobojli, but here I also thank SNSD and all the others who have supported me, who know that same good building and with great capacity spaces that don't even work and stand empty in Doboy. I think that's enough reason and I'm asking the Council of Ministers to challenge those reasons and to say that Doboj doesn't have it and that there's no adequate business room to be able to do this job quite well and why you're pushing for Sarajevo and your party's programme to put everything in Sarajevo, that's your problem. We from the SNSD have no problem and we think BiH should be decentralised and not only BiH but also RS and not everything in Banja Luka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16287	Mr. Živković, of course you have the right to propose and to ask the Council ofminitors, but you insist that Parliament bring it today without argument. And I again argue that there is no more adequate building in BiH than the Post Office, than the Post Office here on the Coast, and that no one can offer better conditions either representative or functional for such an agency. That's it. Please nice, who else? Miloš Jovanović, here you go, replica right? Here you go. Let the Sopta Rose be prepared and Beriz Belkić prepare. Here you go, Mr. Jovanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16288	Here, let me just say, thank Mr. Hadžić, and I really agree with him that we're on the committee, I think this is, uh, the tolerance of this, to run this open and very often let's say, and around the amendment, we agree, that was this time. I must admit that I was the first to respond to this amendment, and I asked the Secretary of the Commission, so on amendment number VIII, I admit that I realized that the amendment did not go through. However, the record said that 3 members voted for, 4 were abstentions and 2 were against. I mean, there are all the members of the Commission, so I just don't want this, no fraud, if the members of the Commission think they voted differently, that it was different, we're going to meet again and about this one, vote but so there was really no intention of anyone being deceived but I say, all the members of the Commission are present here and if they think it was different, that they voted differently, let them say.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16289	I thank you, Mr Nikola Špirić, for the exposure of Mr Jovanović. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16290	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I'd just like to put something back in the regulars. The Commission was doing its part of the job, I'm really trying to hold back on something that can be political, but MPs can talk about everything. If they gave a commission the right, that's why there are stenograms to record, because political parties convince their people to change their position this afternoon, so there are Commission stenograms. So in the stenogram of the commission there is how who voted, whether someone had another position or today, you can think if we let every commission and we say, you know, let's sit down now and re-negotiate in another way. That's why I respect the Commission's position, and I'd better respect the position of a board based on a stenogram rather than inaugurate a rule that the commission can check its views again every time. In that sense, not polemics with counterpart Jovanović, but an attempt to find a solution. So there's a commission position that I support, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16291	Thank you. Mr. Momčilo Novaković, replica of Mr. Špirić's discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16292	It's not a replica to Mr Špirić's discussion,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16293	It's a replica on?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16294	First of all, it is not a replica on Mr Špirić's discussion but on Mr Jovanović's discussion. So, and I'm also going to say one more sentence after that. In fact, I also believe that the Commission has finished its half. The Commission made a report, the members of the Commission voted as they voted, giving the Commission members the opportunity after a few days, to vote differently, would really not have had any sense because we would have introduced this House into a chaos where we would always, after some additional perhaps political consultations, change the views that we once said on the Commission and which resulted in some conclusion, that is, by a decision of the Commission. So, for me, this report that the Commission delivered is clear, if it is true that it voted 3, 4, 2, so to me it is clear and there is no need for a new report. I'd also like to suggest to my colleagues that we're on principle, so I don't see that the Agency's headquarters is a principle, but if it's a principle, then we're opening a debate now and I think we've opened up the debate and the amendments because we've talked about both the principles and the amendments. And if we're talking about the amendments, then I'd rather not come back later, I'd like to ask Mr. Avdić, and what's the problem with the entity writing on the masquerade? What's the problem? Is that some kind of problem? Should we hide 18 of us from the entity that exists so it doesn't appear on the stamp? Well, there's no reason, I really don't see any reason for us to be exhausted on these issues. Here, I agree that the question can be the elaborate seat, if there are conditions, there are no etc. but whether or not it really makes sense. I don't think it's right to open these questions like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16295	Hold on a second. There are two people waiting for the discussion for 15-20 minutes. Mr. Sead Avdić replica, of course, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16296	I'm sorry. I don't think we understand each other, colleague Novaković and I. The Council of Ministers proposed a term, could be an entity's marking, and the Commission says seas. Now the real question is what motivated the Commission to tell the sea. Which means, leave the entity free will to declare itself simply whether it will place on the stamps and the entity labels, and the BiH state is not controversial... So we didn't get along with our colleague Novaković. This was proposed by the Council of Ministers – it can, and the Commission says – must. Now, that's the only difference, my reaction, and I think we should leave a formula given by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16297	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta, let Mr. Beriz Belkić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a member of the commission, I can say that I contributed to this report, so whether it's satisfactory or not. In principle, when it comes to the seat, I supported it in principle and said that I support the principle that the law must be the seat of the institution, if we form it by law. Finally, it was a good practice so far in both the old system and our system and the practice of this Parliament until the adoption of the Law to NOS. When NOS headquarters was to be determined, it was provided for in the law, when Parliament wanted MPs to come out with arguments for a better seat, then it was challenged in all possible ways, only not by arguments valid. One of our arguments was that NOS headquarters was better in Mostar for one reason. First, in Chulam 10 km from Mostar was a former ring for the whole of Yugoslavia, which is close to the Chaplin hydropower plant, which with reversible water is a very good argument for bridging possible haiariums, and the only counterarrum is that it is too expensive to move. So the price went from $15 million to $11 to 9, so that at the end of the election, a report was returned to the commission, for no reason at all, to change, when it was taken out that individual MPs who voted for headquarters in Mostar would withdraw their opinion, in the end, on that commission it is recognised that it is true that 115 thousand is perfect enough to move this NOS headquarters to Mostar. I did not support this amendment, but I was in principle in favour and I said that I supported the principle of decentralisation of the headquarters of certain institutions. And that's what I'm saying here right now, and I think that should be a good practice for this Parliament. 19 I say I don’t know how much it is in legal rules, but the practice so far has been, when one institution is determined by law, that it is logical to know the seat. So a man who will address that institution, when he reads the law, must know the seat. So far there's been a name, a seat and a hold on what regulates, any rule that it must stand in law and possibly above the stamp. And as for Mr. Džaferović's discussion, I have an objection to Mr. Džaferović, I did not report for the replica, but if this building is thought to be a good solution here, I can trust you and believe that it is a good solution for the headquarters of this agency. However, I can't agree at all, 90% of the institutions have been formed, here since we've been here, the seats are in Sarajevo, and we're in our budget, no less than 14 million we've planned for the spells, for individual spaces. So please nice, where's the logical bill, and we offered in Mostar as well for that NOS was paying the rent here and we offered down the building. Let me just say, that's one reason enough to dislocate these institutions. There's something else I wanted to say, here, and as far as decentralisation is concerned, that's what we've been over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. Here's Mr. Bešlagić mentioned the headquarters of not Derk but of the railways, I think that's it, that it would really be the dvoro in Doboj. I'm not sure if this is good in the season but I supported it in principle. And even when it comes to Amendment VIII, you yourself have admitted to Mr. Džaferović that he is unclear in the law, of all that Mr. Zorić is, I'm sorry that he is not here today, he wanted to erase that ambiguity. And that is, if you say it on the BiH list, what list? What list? He just suggested that part of the text be deleted. And I think he didn't do anything wrong, because it could've been better. Yes, probably, but Mr. Zorić only deleted an unnecessary part of the text because he said it according to the BiH list. Nothing, no list, is defined. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16299	Thank you, Mrs. Sopta, but I think it's clear to you and me what this is all about. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please. I apologize in advance to Beriz Belkić, he has been reported before Mrs Sopta, but that's how the announcement came out, we didn't want to change. I apologize to you. Here's a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16300	So I have no intention of joining the tone and content of this discussion so far, because I find it completely irrational and not to say by selling some fog and fighting for home and so forth. which is a bright tradition in this country. So, the Party for BiH MPs' club supports this law in the first reading, believing that there is a constitutional basis and a need for adoption, regretting that this action has lasted 3-4 years for me to call under quotes. So, after 3-4 years, intense discussions, stories and so forth. We have come to one in our opinion of a very modest law which, at least, determines the basics of politics and allows BiH to be part of the postal traffic system through its institutions, etc. So to stay 20 consistent with what I said at the beginning, we support this law in the first reading for the simple reason we see that there are amendments that can be regulated. When it comes to locations, two sentences. So we don't think that the headquarters of some function, or institution, is a sign of decentralisation. So it's much wider, and we think that really finally the Council of Ministers should build criteria and cities and functions and without passion then simply do locations or dislocations of existing etc. It would be very interesting to do an analysis of what we've gotten by housing the Derk, say, in Tuzlo. And meetings of the efficiency of the institution's work, whether it was worth it and how much the costs of the fact produced by Derk in Tuzla. What Tuzla finally got, because it was the basis of the story, etc. So, that story needs to be quiet and rationally this one, carried out. Here, if I could join you when it comes to the report, maybe this will help. I noticed in the report, so on page 2, it's about Amanda III on page 2, the intervention is of a technical nature, so it says, in Article 10(4) point d) is changed and it says - point d) does not apply to the seat. I don't know anything about me, I don't get it all wrong, I'm not the one who gets it wrong, I understand everything, I'm just confused by this order. Nachi, okay, it doesn't confuse me, it doesn't confuse me, it doesn't confuse me, it doesn't bother me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16301	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. Mrs. Seada Palavrić applied for a word, please, after that, Mr. Potočnik Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16302	And let me on behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, just remind you of the fact that really inventing,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16303	Please, we have a discussion of the MPs, please pay attention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16304	By moving institutions that already exist in any city in BiH, we are, in fact, only increasing the cost of leases on the one hand, and on the other hand, making these institutions never or very slow to live. I wish we had one review, really, and that's what I resent to the Council of Ministers, where the headquarters are institutions, where there are regional seats and what we have left. I really hope they'll keep us quiet for once and give it to us. And I totally understand people who insist on it and I insist on it myself. And I don't think that Sarajevo is mine or that Sarajevo should be taken care of by the Bošnjak alone or that Mostar should only be cared for by Hrvat, or Banja Luka only by Srbin and Doboj, I don't think of it. All BiH cities are in my opinion equally ours, all of us. And we should worry equally. 21 So if we do not desire that some institutions do not live, let us not really make such laws in which we will make such laws out of cash and those institutions that exist let them stay where they exist and build new ones, for new ones it will be no matter whether they are built in Sarajevo, Mostar, Tuzla, Doboj, if we build them, it is not doubtful. The second thing, when it comes to the amendment to the content of the stamp, I think the law solves the issue well, the bill in a way that the state, the character of the state must be, but the entity can. And the fact that an entity who wants to be on the stamp can be, and the one who doesn't want to. This would force some entity, and I believe that we would force the Federation to go on a stamp and she doesn't want it. There's no need to be on the stamp. Therefore, the formulation of the bill is quite correct. Next thing you know, I don't want to educate anyone, but I want to remind you, by accepting first reading and principles and in the Commission's report, we actually accept the amendments that the Commission has accepted and which are really unconstitutional in part and I should then break and challenge them. I would like to remind you that, I should warn you, the Party of Democratic Action Club will not accept the Commission's report. I think it is a minor shame to return the Commission's report with instructions to review the law and to offer a new report in 15 days, with the possibility of new amendments, rather than to have the law in the House of Nations drawn up with vital national interest, and this must be done because of what is left now, parity or parity according to the list. It's out of your mind. Therefore, I ask you to be rational and not to let this kind of effort fail because it will fail, but to give the Commission another 15 days, this is what the Rules of Procedure allows us to do. We can ask the Commission to draw up a new report, with new guidelines and guidelines to bring the law into order in accordance with the Constitution. The fact is, this is a big minus the Council of Ministers, regardless of whether it's a mistake, obviously it is. Can't stand parity according to the list. According to the list is proportion and parity is independent of anything. Therefore, it depends on the number of constituent peoples. Please support us to return this to the Commission, otherwise we vote against, and I believe that our delegates in the House of Peoples will, if the law comes to them, raise the question of vital national interest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16305	I thank Mrs. Palavrić. We have two replicas, and the Deputy Minister would like to speak to me, as far as I can understand. But let's just hear these lines for a little while. Mr. Špirić first checked in, so then you Mrs. Sopta, very briefly please reply, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16306	The more the debate goes on, I feel that the clearer the fate of the law is in the first reading, but what I want to say, when it comes to the discussion of colleague Palavrić, it's not about dislocating, moving some institution. It's about establishing a new institution, so let's be perfectly clear. If it was before it could be distracted, but here for the public to know, so it's not dislocating. Niko one touches any institution, but a new institution is created and, of course, a story can be opened where 22 would be the most logical and necessary and I would come up with, that all attributes for such an institution have a Doboj as well as perhaps cities in BiH who are not without these attributes can satisfy or not. And to be perfectly logical and clear, I thought today we'd avoid some stories that are being passed in every law. I will return you now to the adoption of personal documents when it is also said it can be on the citizens' personal document, if it will, so it's only been expelled in half a month and I first insist that we be legalists in this country and try to change things. But if, I'm in favour of a provision, what the Commission has adopted has to. Well, can't my stamp really stand what our country is. Do we really disagree that BiH is, that there are two entities. Now as some prefer, some less love their country. That game costs Bosnia and Herzegovina. If we change, when we change, what changes will be, political debates will be conducted. Why are we in this country against clear laws? Why sometimes we call upon the Constitution and sometimes we run like devils of the constitution. The constitution needs to be respected all the time. There's no way I'm gonna do it otherwise. I am not for new time to the Commission and congratulate the clubs that have the strength to say I will vote against the law. I'm just asking you not to deny it directly to others. That right and others may have, don't when others vote against, so the law goes down to OHR and say here they are obstructing them. I respect the attitude that the law should and fall, please. But that we know he's falling for a political approach, not because the essence of the law is wrong. And it's a vain story, you know, there's been a lot of work in the law, it needs BiH, but if the entities happen to mention it, we'll vote against it. Well, it's all transparent, it's all clear. And that's why I think this isn't about dislocation. It's about creating a new institution. And the other thing, gentlemen, don't, it's really funny that on every law, you who've been keeping this Council of Ministers talking for two years, it's no good in this law, it's no good in them, when trust comes here you burn to support them. Change the Council of Ministers, you from within your parliamentary majority to do so as you wish. So if we from the opposition were satisfied, if we got the programme of the headquarters of the institutions, we'd be satisfied. And don't go on and on, because by the time that this programme is made, all newly created institutions will have their seat and will be in vain talking about dislocation, because then they will talk about the costs of dislocating it more expensively than maintaining institutions. And that's why, most of the parties, they don't want the council to do it and they talk to the public about how they can't wait for it to happen. It'll be a done deal, it'll be in vain to ask for it. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16307	Thank you. So I'd like to ask that the replicas last really very briefly. I didn't want to interrupt you, you're the vice president, but here we are in the future to take care of it. Mrs. Sopta, here's your replica. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16308	I'll do it very briefly, Mr. Belkić. By chance this time, Mr Belkić also has an objection to language or spelling. So I'm interpreting it now, because I have a Cyrillic report where by the alphabet, it's D and I have a report on the Latin where E.. The greška is obviously in the report. If we got in all the languages, we'd get neat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16309	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Mr. Potočnik's discussion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16310	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, present guests, it is obvious on this example, as on many examples, that we are in a situation that is not done in one country or in a project or plan. It is normal, in normal countries, to analyse all the institutions that are, which will be, to make an organisational and professional analysis, economic analysis and to take care of the dislocatedness of such institutions. And we come into a situation like today, that there's only a fight between political parties, not thinking about the institutions that represent this country. My proposal is for the Council of Ministers to analyse the existing institutions and institutions that need to be opened and to make a complete proposal, respecting these three analyses, organisational and professional, economic and dislocated, and following the adoption of individual laws for each of these institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16311	Thank you, Mr. Potočnik. Since no one is answering for the word anymore, Deputy Minister of Communications Mr. Haris Bašić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16312	Dear ladies and gentlemen, esteemed MPs, I would first of all like to express my regret, which is why we have brought into the dilemma the distinguished House of Representatives of BiH, one very vague formulation which is, by technical error, dragged into this law and came to your parliamentary benches. The fact is that the provision of a member is said to be parity according to the list, completely incompatible and that the place should have been written proportionally. Unfortunately, the tissue regulation has passed the law and come here and it is now creating these dilemmas that you are discussing. What has now been crystallized in the discussion has raised the question of why this is one of the laws that has not defined the seat. The fact is that so far almost all the laws have come before this parliament, in front of this home with a defined seat. This isn't where it happened. The Council of Ministers had to make a decision on the seat in line with the establishment of postal operators. For the reasons of organisational, technical, informational and especially because the creation of an information strategy in BiH, which will determine the highway routes of optical communications between operators, both the 24 communications and the postal, which is under way, the Council of Ministers has left this provision to subsequently determine the headquarters of the Post Office. That was the only reason. So, first of all, we want to wait for the arguments of three postal operators that will give us suggestions where it is most meaningful and rational to set up the Post Traffic Agency and according to those functions that it needs to perform, which you saw in Article 11. That was the reason. So, you will soon, on your benches, get the Law on Railways, you will see that a very precise issue will be regulated to the headquarters of the Railway Regulatory Agency. So we're not running away from it as a ministry, but we're here for purely pragmatic reasons, and it's about making an information passion for BiH that should be finished in terms of these determinations of the master's direction and the arrangements of three operators where it should be the postal traffic agency. Here, that's why we didn't put the law in the seat. If you can support our formulation, we'd be delighted if not, uh, the procedure could continue to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16313	I thank Mr. Deputy Minister. Mr. Živković, is it a replica? Here you go, a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16314	Very short. I would like to thank the representative of the Council of Ministers for this notification. But I think it's a better combination to accept the Commission's report and set the centre up like it is, because we've had a lot of bad experiences about the ZEKS, so somewhere where we haven't paved the seat, so they've been buying, you know, space, so they've been buying equipment so eventually it's come, well, it can't go anywhere else because it already has, so why put it somewhere else. Here, I suggest you keep your seat in Doboi. No problem will be given to the Council of Ministers when it gets that information, as it does not say in the law, when the Council of Ministers delivers the seat, when it delivers that information to give the amendment, so that most who thinks it is better to be in Sarajevo or another city, will change that amendment but in the meantime do not rent premises in the Post Office in BiH or elsewhere in BiH, I think it would be better to keep it in place and that when the Council of Ministers collects all relevant information, it goes with the amendment on changing its seat. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16315	Thank you. We've been through the debate, but here, we have another application, actually two applications. I'd like to ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues, before I say that the debate is concluded to apply, that we know. But I would ask you to respect when I say 25 that the debate is concluded, that it is then concluded, that until then you are considering whether or not someone will answer the discussion. But here it is, Mr. Moranjkić. Have Mrs. Mara Perkanović prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was thinking whether to answer and a little bit I was on the scale somewhere until Mr. Deputy Minister came out and said what he said. I, my views often referred to Mr Jovanović, the President of the Commission, to intervene on this and since he did not, I, as Vice-President of the Commission, therefore acted late, so I would ask that it be accepted rather than as a non-discipline, as you have already said, of certain MPs to appear after a discussion or debate was concluded. We had three men on board from the ministry headed by Mr. Šavija sitting here. It's the secretary general. We combed the law and changed it well compared to the items offered by the Council of Ministers. Please, if you would just go back to the proposed text to see how binding it is, that anyone who will receive mail in this country must have a mailbox or have 200 fines in an urgent period of time, if he has not highlighted the mailboxes. Please nice, do it in a remote village where mail comes in year etc. And he's bound by it. So we combed the law and took it the way we did. Please be nice, so I'm just saying, the law shouldn't have been allowed into progress if some things weren't, which are very important defined, as Mr. Deputy Minister said. And I, as a delegate, and as a member of that committee, have an objection to that. Secondly, I don't see the need for this much breaking. How come from once on this law, this is exactly how you break and capture and politicize for certain things. The Rules of Procedure are clear, decadent, etc. Gentlemen, certain discussions on who has to go, let's go to the Commission's report vote, past, fallen, further the Rules of Procedure have regulated how this will be done. And then we'll see in the amendments whether they're good or not. And get the job done, not the whole day we've been going round and round and I don't really see why. I, when it comes to proportional and differential, had someone smiled in this House last time there was the Act of Accessuses where the word was proportionately wrongly set. When I asked, then she laughed and something went over, because it was appropriate to someone to change the terms proportionally and differentially. Then it could, and now it can't, and we're like this, and I don't think that's right, and that's why I'm proposing Mr. Chairman to go after the Rules of Procedure, so let's put the report to the vote and let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16317	Well, otherwise, he can't, he'll go according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Mrs. Mara Perkanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16318	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm going to look back on the discussion from the ministry. That explanation didn't convince me that it was 26 random failures, it was simply some intentional better said failure, not to place the seat. If they didn't make up the plan first, I think they let the law into the process prematurely. And I'd like things like that not to happen in the future, or to get the law done with the greatest respect for all the factors, or not to let it go into the process, then we have problems like this, about these failures, let's call the failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16319	Thank you, Mrs. Perkanović. You can do it briefly, Mr. Potočnik, but really briefly this is the second discussion of the same point, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16320	Of course, I'm always short. There are two possibilities. It is one possibility that we can pass laws without determining a place, so that a body will be formed that will be kept in line again, organised, professional, economic and dislocated, at the level of BiH and there is another possibility that we will not pass laws until we have such a round project. That's my suggestion to Mr. Džaferović, listen to me when I speak. So I give two proposals, or two options, or wait for the law to be passed while we have a plan to schedule all such institutions, or to pass laws, and then to reconcile all these, these places of those institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16321	Thank you. I'm listening to you, Mr. Potočnik, but I need to consult with the secretary, and in the end, it doesn't matter what I hear or don't hear, it's what gets into the stenogram. Anyone else want to talk? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate and, of course, we approach further procedures in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Here was Mrs. Seada Palavrić's proposal, Mr. Izet Hadžić, to set a new commission deadline in accordance with Article 95(3) of our Rules of Procedure, to re-examine this law and deliver a new report. I will immediately say in my opinion, therefore, there are reasons for that, from two things at least. Mr Hadžić, as a member of the Commission, argues that one of the amendments has not been voted and the report says it has been voted and the Commission president says it has been voted on, and says it has been voted on. And the second thing, the deputy minister of communication said the law made a technical mistake which was later amended by the Commission, not that it was corrected but that it was taken to the other side entirely. I think that is enough reasons, but you are MPs, you are Parliament, you will plead as you think, and I call on you to vote on Mrs Seada Palavrić and Mr Izet Hadžić's proposal. 27 Prepare to vote. You can't get the word, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16322	....first voted on the Commission's Report and then on some other proposals, whether it is returning or returning and first reading, please first vote on the Commission's Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16323	Mr. Živković, first of all there is a vote on the proposal of an MP who, please, please. Please, I don't want to expose anyone, I don't want to expose anyone at this table here, I've consulted who I should consult with, and I know the Rules of Procedure enough myself, and I've dealt with many times in previous situations the way I deal with. I invite you to prepare for the vote on Mrs. Seada Palavrić's proposal and Izet Hadžić. Prepare, the proposal says, to ask the Commission for a new commission report within 15 days, taking into account the debate we had here today. I call upon you to plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 17 for, 17 against, there is no entity majority, so there is no general majority, the proposal has not passed. We move on to a statement on the law in the first reading. We're voting on the law in first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I note that with 21 votes for, 12 against, 3 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted the proposal for a Law on the Post Offices of Bosnia and Herzegovina in its first reading. This is how we ended the second item of the agenda. I don't know if you're suggesting you, I'm not up for going to another reading today, but if you insist, I'll put you to the vote. Okay. I call on the House to state whether today is about discussing the law in another reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. It's 18 for the proposal, 17 against, 7.11 from the Federation doesn't have a majority. Conciliation, if we're going to leave the alignment for the next session, we're going to leave. We'll leave the alignment in business. 28 Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Deposit Insurance in BiH Banks, the first reading of this bill was submitted to Parliament on 17 November 2004. It was forwarded to you on 24 November 2004, the Council of Ministers proposed. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 17 December 2004. The Commission for Finance and Budget is responsible, we received a report from the committee responsible on 17 January 2005. The Commission supported the proposal for a law in the proposed text. In the plenary phase, an amendment was filed by Mr. Beriz Belkić, who he wants to defend before the House again. So you received a report from the Commission and Mr Belkić's amendment. We are considering the bill in the first reading. I'm opening a debate. If no one's answering for a word, I'd be the one to conclude the argument. I invite you to prepare for the vote. So we vote on this law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parlamantar Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, with 33 votes in favour, and with a sufficient entity majority, without and without abstentions, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Insurance of Deposits in Banks of BiH, in the first reading. I call upon you to state whether or not we are discussing the law today in a second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously with 30, the pardon is not a majority vote, 32 votes in favour, without against and abstention 1, with a sufficient entity majority, decided to go to a second reading, related to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in BiH Banks. As I said, there is only one amendment to Mr. Beriz Belkić. I'm opening a debate on the law in the second reading. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the argument if no one answers. We move on to a statement on Mr Beriz Belkić's amendment. Prepare to vote. We're voting on Mr. Beriz Belkić's amendment. Vote now. So 21 for, 4 against, 5 abstentions, 20 Federations 1 RS, there is not enough majority from RS. So we're going for a match. Are we going to do the procedure right now, since it's an amendment? The amendment is we go now, we're in another reading, well, well, are you in or out? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 29 Okay, about the amendment, there's no consent in the College. We're going to vote in the second round. So, only those who are against are voted against, so those who are against and I call on them to prepare for a plea. Those who are against the amendment, vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 8 is against, from the RS, from the Federation is no one against. There are no more than 10 and more than 20 against the entity, I find Mr. Beriz Belkić's amendment was adopted. We are now voting on the law, which also assumes Mr. Beriz Belkić's amendment. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 33 for, no one against, 1 abstention, a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Deposit Insurance in BiH Banks and in the second reading, which is why this House has completed its work under this law, so it passed this law. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are now moving to agenda five, that's Ad.5. The motion for a decision on the sale of immovableity, is proposed by the Council of Ministers, I would ask for some attention. You gentlemen received a motion for a decision on the sale of immovable property, which the Council of Ministers established at its 69th session, held on 16 November 2004. It's about selling a military building with a yard described in Article 1. Decisions owned by the BiH state. The motion for a decision was discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, whose opinion you received. You have seen, the Constitutional and Legal Commission has found that there is a valid constitutional and legal basis for making a decision on the sale of US immovable property for the BiH embassy building. The Commission proposes to adopt the House of the proposed Decision. I'm opening a debate. Please, I didn't hear you, if you have an introduction, here's an introduction. There isn't. Mr. Nikola Špirić has his word. Let Mr. Mladen Potočnik prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16324	Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed ministers, I have one question, of course. It's about the decision to sell real estate. So, it is not a questionable Commission all that it has found, it is only about whether what is state property in BiH is defined, so that it can be sold in this way. I'm afraid that, in due course, 30 times, these things will appear in other places that can be formally-legally controversial. So is this property, and is all of this property, this kind of property a state property that the state can dispose of? Is this any other law defined and I'd like to know which law can be called upon? So, the other one is nothing to me. Maybe this isn't a question if there's an explanation, but it would be good for us to know that. So it's a land complex within the Kasarna Marshal Tito. Now the question is, is that state property? I don't know how the Defense Act is regulated, so I have a dilemma. You show up tomorrow, you do examples, you have military property in Banja Luka, tomorrow they want to sell it, the entity says no, the revenues belong to the entity, not the state. So, let's get these dilemmas straight, so we don't get into college. Is there a law that unified that kind of property? I know there's a Commission on State Property that's been formed, I don't know if there's any legal proposals, but it would be good if we had a clear thing, so we wouldn't come in later, so I'm not having a problem with the object's purpose, or anyone's going to go, or the price, but formally-legally not to get into something that can be an ugly political story. So, I wish I had that explanation. Thank you very much, so that I may, of course, plead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16325	I thank Mr. Špirić. So we have the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we've got it. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, let Mr. Beriz Belkić rest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16326	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, apparently, there is nothing disputed about the sale of this property, property to the state of America, for their needs of the embassy, but there are three other problems. One is the exit of the International Force from the barracks that has been there for 10 years, the other is the provision of a number of disabled people who are in those premises and who have invested funds and others, as key is the money from the sale. According to my deep conviction, it must go to the university center, or colony, so I suggest that we not only make a decision on the sale but also make a decision on the allocation of funds from that sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16327	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16328	The Party for BiH MPs' club, in principle, will support the proposal for a sale decision. However, we have had some consultations and we have some information regarding the whole procedure. So, regardless of the choice and method of sale, we propose or demand that Parliament be given funds from this sale, directed towards Sarajevo University, because the entire land is 31 intended for the construction of a campus, i.e. accommodation, new accommodation of the Sarajevo University, and it is logical that we expect one part of the land that we also get the funds to do so towards the Sarajevo University. That's one thing. The second thing, I am very pleased to hear from Mr Špirić that it is necessary to have a framework and rules of play when it comes to state property and to remind you, on two or three occasions we have tried to launch an initiative, to pass a law on state property, which will determine the principles of who is the head of state property, in which way is given to lower levels of government, how it is sold, how it gets from it, we talked about paying 15-16 million rents, etc. But here, we seem to have succeeded at the Finance Commission, and we have set the budget as a proposal for a work plan this year, and I hope that we will do something about it. So, the Party for BiH MPs' club will support a conclusion like this, but will demand a conclusion, that these funds be directed towards the Sarajevo University. Havala.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16329	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The replica was answered by Mr Nikola Špirić, to prepare Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. And I call on club presidents to inform the MPs to enter the O.R., we are here on the very edge of the quorum, when it comes to the entity majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16330	Please, therefore, the funds collected from this sale are an integral part of the Budget of BiH. We can't just talk about one university if this is our country. Then we can say that we should support universities both in Banja Luka and Mostar. Now I don't know if you need 70% here and Tuzla, I'm sorry, there's a Bihac, okay. But be careful, let's not play hide-and-seek here now that this is for one purpose. So, when the BiH state's real estate is sold, funds are budget funds. That's why I was talking about clearing up the dilemmas. I don't know if... the decision, okay, Berize don't mind, so I don't mind making a decision but just to clear up what's going on with the budget. I don't mind supporting the university right now. So, I don't, but let's see, formally, we're making a decision. I would like here to be told which member of the Constitution we are referring to and which member of the law, to which we can do this, so that I, as an MP, would be standing up to raise my hand. He's opening up other dilemmas. I've told you coffee dilemma can open elsewhere. So if we do, it's good to make decisions without law. Then when we make the law, we say once we've made a mistake, let's just skip it now, this is the important thing. So, I don't dispute the intention, I don't argue that it should, I don't dispute the price if people have worked, but this is formal-law, it's still not clean. I can't, I just won't put myself in that position so I can be interpreted in one way or another. Well, you can imagine what political use this is now. We got 11 million, here's the conclusion that we give it to one university and the state budget. And then you hear from someone from Mostar, from Bihac, and he says, "We're dying in Bihaq." He's in better shape in financial wartime than the University of 32 Bihæ, Tuzla, Mostar, not to mention Banja Luka. And not to mention the University of East Sarajevo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16331	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović answered the words, please. Are there more people on this subject? There's more, okay, then Nikola takes over, only I have two minutes to get out.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16332	Thank you, Deputy Chairman. I suppose I'll give someone information, there's not enough information available about the Campus complex in Sarajevo. Let me just tell you that the government has made the decision in its own time to assign the entire complex of former Kasarna Maršal Tito to the purpose of the campus. Comrade Špirić, I assume you've seen, not the Federation government, there even the tram station says Campus, that's one thing. Second, one part, already part of the University is located inside, is the Centre for International Postgraduate Studies. One part of the complex is used by ESFOR, which has not left the complex for years, and now part of the entire complex is used by ESFOR, part of the sale to the US Embassy. Of course, this has been prepared for a long time and the whole procedure and I will only tell you that from the whole, here I happen to have, not by accident, actually because I was a member of the Board of Directors of the University, the Regulatory Plan of quadrant C, because, based on the decision of the Valades, Master Plan has also been made which has been helped by the International Community for the Construction of the Complex, the Regulatory Plan of Quadrant C is an existing state here and after negotiations with the American Embassy, the amended Regulatory Plan which in the Government of Canton Sarajevo in communication with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs complete procedure. One more thing, I'd like to remind you that the entire operation in the nature of the matter was led by the Foreign Ministry. Since this is about the embassy, whether, by means of which, the foreign ministry has communicated with other state institutions. Most of the jurisdiction related to the Regulatory Plan and everything else was in the power of the Canton of Sarajevo government. I just want to mention that it's all over except for one very important thing. I will remind you that last year, I reminded all parliamentarians by delivering the Memorandum or the Proposal for a Memorandum of Decision, on this occasion, when we had just received these materials, that in my own time, at the stage when all these other procedures were completed, the University of Sarajevo Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council, had sent a memo informing him of some very important facts. I'm really sorry, but I'm asking you nicely, that with the future embassy facility there can't be an empty 100-metre space, since it's about the embassy and the complex of educational institutions where the masses of people are gathered. Then ESFOR must leave the entire space of campus and hand over to the University of facilities it is now using. And among other things, the 33rd University, as a land user, requires that 40, recorded here 42,910, is slightly higher in the Decision, is compensated in the amount of that and that. The izmeđuostali one is specified that the amount has to be provided from the price of land charged by the US government, and that the possible difference from the Canton budget of the Sarajevo Federation of BiH and the BiH state, in the period no later than 2009, when the embassy building was planned to be completed. I'm only reading to you what's most important, which we must take care of when making this decision. What counterpart Belkić said, does not really slow down all this that has been done so far through all the state institutions, there is something that is missing from the proposal of the since when we were delivered. And that is, what about the funds, that is, how will the University be compensated in some way for part of the space, to which these assets will go from the sale of land, whether they will go into the budget so as to finance the state administration or indeed go to build a campus complex, especially considering that the amended Regulatory Plan, which has already been adopted, interred and the construction of a transfer hall there in that section relating to the route of the bus station Energoinvest, will narrow down the additional space remaining on campus, and of course require additional costs. I expected today to be at this session the least chaired by the Council of Ministers and the least rector of the University. And it's really strange, given the specific weight and severity of this situation, that we don't have any further clarification and explanation today. I mention, don't argue with what's in front of us, but, of course, with the obligation to get the funds that are sold for the construction of campus. Thank you, and fellow Špirić, I, as far as I know, some barracks in Banja Luka are also used by the University of Banja Luka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16333	Thank you. Here, replica Mr. Špirić. Have Mrs. Fatima Lego prepare for the discussion. It says Fatima pa Seada, that's what we wrote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16334	So that we don't get it wrong, I don't have me, if someone doesn't get the impression that I have something against the Sarajevo University, it's my university, that's where I ended up and worked there, so I don't have a dilemma whether I should help or not, but I'm speaking formally-legal. If this is state property and when the funds enter the state budget, then the funds are the state of BiH, and if someone has made a mistake elsewhere, I'm saying mistakes are possible because there is no law. If this is the property of the university, then the university can sell its property and make six campuses. I speak formally... if this is state property and when it enters the budget, then we must be aware of the responsibility, that these are the resources of the state budget. So that's where we don't get into the trap. And that's why I think it needs to be formally cleaned up. I think the same thing when there's property in Mostar and there's property in Banja Luka if it's legal, it has to be in accordance with the law, but it doesn't exist. 34 So, if, that it was written through one at the University, I don’t know, there’s a lawyer here, there’s a lawyer, then the University can sell and not ask us and take 20 million if he needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16335	Thank you. Ma'am, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16336	...one question arises which is quite logical questions. From where law and who gave it to the University of Sarajevo, who gave it to the University of Banja Luka and in Tuzla we can't even get in Bihac. Because when we get to that level, then it's said to belong to the current Department of Defense, etc. So, I'm saying the essential questions here are very important to support science right now, so that tomorrow this money doesn't come into question and there's no part of it. So there's one question here, who was metricated to give Kasarn Marshall Tito to the University. If that is regular, I think this Parliament should only verify the Treaty if it is to be verified, if it is the International Treaty. It means we're not wondering about these things. I'm talking about the case when we had a command in Tuzla that we had to pay the BiH Army to move into another building that we adapted, which cost. I support the University, I will vote in favour of this proposal but these are issues that can cause confusion in the further procedure concerning the property of the BiH Army. These are things that are really questions but here, I say because of the university, I support but the question is how does that, okay... then we don't have a slow, I mean, no, there's no slow to ask these questions. So I ask the question why didn't the university deal with the government, with the American Embassy, sell property.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16337	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16338	I'm asking you, to explain things in which, don't confuse us. So, the government has awarded the university, the university has that right, this Parliament will be verified by this Treaty. So the funds go to the University of Sarajevo level, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16339	Please, please, take a deep breath. First, I ask you not to take words like Mr. Bešlagić did now. This is a discussion. There's a series of discussions, so let's put order on this, and now on that discussion that's past the line, they're opening up replicas. I beg you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, a very short replica, to move on then.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16340	Is that what limits the length of the replica to me, or else? 35
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16341	All of them, all of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16342	I really need to say it. There is no question here about the decision and the purpose of it, I mention even there is a Master Campus plan. There are a lot of actions that have been done on the basis of a legally made decision, a legal authority, which was the Government of the Republic of BiH. So it's not a question of whether or not it's going to be given to the campus, it's a campus. It is only a question of how much of this entire complex is used in the function of the University, because part of the years has been used by ESFOR, one part, and the good part is unfortunately completely devastated, or destroyed, and in the absence of money has not yet been fully restored. And secondly, I have already mentioned this, the university library and some universities are more located there and the UTIK Centre for International Co-operation, etc. But there is something else here that can cause this, perhaps some misunderstandings, or some questions. And that may be one mistake. No university, no university on it has a registered property, that it owns 1/1 property. Not one in all of BiH. One is the use of an object, another is property. Therefore, this other property complex, where the state decides, is one of the parties to the buy-in contract.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16343	Thank you. Mrs. Fatima Leho. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare. Here, here's my secretary writing everything here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16344	...recorded but I have a real intervention in the order of discussions, as a member of the College, I have a responsibility to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16345	Mr. Raguž is being respected, but here I am asking the secretary to keep a record and here it is now, the objection has been adopted. You can discuss, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16346	The esteemed chairman, fellow MPs, for me regarding this Decision, has no dilemma. It says here that BiH owns this property, this property is 1/1. The property was the subject of a succession and BiH signed up as 1/1 in the grant books under the Law on Sucession. If this is the first decision by which BiH sells part of its property, the funds must go to the state budget. And that's what we MPs under the current laws can declare. As for decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of BiH, it should be checked at the Faculty or University, which means that the decision in relation to the 36th time in the books of the BiH grants did not say that the government is competent to place property that is subject to succession on someone's property. So, the only way out of this situation is to be modest in my view, so that the funds go into the state budget, and then the University of Sarajevo, since it's already partly used on the basis of the Government's decision as it is and on the basis of that, the legal basis on which it was adopted, to appear before the Council of Ministers as the Government of BiH and to submit a request that will in a certain way potentiate its request. It's the only thing we can do right now without making a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16347	I thank Mrs. Leho. Now it's Mrs. Seada Palavrić, let Filip Andrić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16348	I'm sorry that so many dilemmas appear and that the state's attorney who was on the Constitutional-Pave Commission and gave us answers to all the questions we had, did not speak for some reason, did not speak. So perhaps Mrs. Spiric will answer and talk about it, but what I'm saying is the situation that Mr. Špirić proposed and demanded an answer. So, where did this property come from, and hence from the Treaty of Succession that finally entered into force last year, after Croatia, so five countries of the former SFRY signed the Treaty of Succession, and Croatia ratified it, laid it down in the Security Council, we were informed that somewhere in July the contract came into effect. Under the Treaty, all immovable assets of the interdepartmentary, former SFRY and the property of the state on whose territory they are located. So is this property. According to the BiH Constitution, Article 1 clearly states, the Republic of BiH, whose official name will be Bosnia and Herzegovina from now on, continues its legal existence under international law as a state. So, as a state, from that Treaty of Sucession. You may know, but you're not acting like you know, let me. So, with full right, we've come to this point that this property is the property of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Meanwhile, no law has been passed under which the property obtained by succession will be shared differently than it says in the Agreement on Sucession. That, by that, if it is brought and what it is brought, then we shall apply it. And another piece of information that came to me from the Presidency is that the land that is the subject of this decision is not at all a campus complex, but bordering it. Campus has nothing to do with this land, it's just borderline. So much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16349	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić, replica of Mrs. Palavrić's discussion, please. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16350	So, Mrs. Palavrić, we respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's not true that you say we don't use it. We use it. That's one thing. The other thing is, it's not true what you're saying has nothing to do with campus. And the third thing, the Party of BiH MPs' club said that, we will support the conclusion but we are asking that the funds go towards the University. Why? Because the University created certain positions and obtained certain rights by decisions of legitimate authorities at the time. Now we're taking them from him, and he needs damage. And that's all the talk.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16351	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić. Philippe, I apologize to you. Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, is it a replica? Then you'll go after Mr. Andrić. Please, by discussion. Mr. Filip Andrić, then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. After that, Mr Petar Kunić and then Mrs Milićević. Here you go, Mr. Andrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16353	I was leaving it to Mrs. Milićević, but since there are no technical problems, I am now asking her to give it to me. Thank you. I am really not at this point competent to enter the further succession of this property from BiH level to the republic, entities or other. Who made what decisions, I don't know, and I haven't even had a chance to know. I view this as the property of BiH that it inherited under the Treaty on the Sucession of the former Yugoslavia, the former state. Bosnia and Herzegovina also inherited the former state's obligations, and I think that we as the most responsible people in this country should take a look at that side. And that we cannot treat BiH's assets in this way by neglecting BiH's obligations. I must return to the debate on the Internal Debt Report, where I mentioned the old foreign exchange savings, where I even used words by myself and with the right to have robbed my people. And it's time to return the loot to the people. What's been taken, it's cursed. With that, I suggest, and I've offered exactly this, as a model for solving the issue of old foreign savings, one of the models. And I'm asking the Council of Ministers to direct these funds to the return of the old foreign savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16354	Thank you. Mr Ivo Miro Jović has a word. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself. Please, Mr Ivo Miro Jović. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16355	Thank you very much. Honorable presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, on the sidelines, I feel like we're discussing some of the funds we've received right now, so how we're going to deploy them. Instead of considering a law where we just need to sell something. I also spoke on the Constitutional Commission, so I would like to make some points from that discussion on the Constitutional Commission and say. It has been too long to resolve the issue of US Embassy accommodation in BiH, in the capital, Sarajevo. Instead of contributing as much as possible to the US in Sarajevo as possible to have a representative location, where we could build a representative facility and not only with regard to the Embassy, but also with all the contents that the United States has done and made towards BiH, and I can see in my knowledge that the expression of the campus is being used, other institutions and organisations that will contribute to the much further and faster development of BiH will be placed in this campus. From the experience of some countries, nearer or later, some countries have done exactly as they are developing today, I have a sense of this discussion. Postponing, prolonging, waiting, seeing, so what happens? And then people made a decision, they went a few miles from the center but the US's policy and assistance to those countries went a few miles from them. For me, the primary task here today is to talk on the subject. The theme is to pass the land sale law that we're talking about. And then I'd like to say some more things about it. I do not think that this should be questionable and that we hope to make a positive decision today on a proposal like this, so that we can respond to the United States to conclude the contract as soon as possible and that this part of the city, which I think is an abandoned part of the city, becomes, by its looks, exactly what a capital of the European country requires at its heart, reperientative objects. There was talk here about it, I think the distinguished representative Professor Hadžiahmetović told us about the Memorandum. And I think he's been making more of a mix-up with us on the committee, but I wouldn't want him to get involved here too. The Memorandum states that the University of Sarajevo is selling, it should be sold to pay it 500 marks per square metre. So if that's 44 thousand square meters, then by simple mathematics we get to 21 million. And here, we see a set price of 12 million. Not only should we give me all these funds to the University of Sarajevo, but still look for so many funds, and then settle at the cost of the cost determined by the University of Sarajevo. I'm saying that it's just a memorandum that can't be a memorandum that's stronger and stronger than the law and I don't think it will be, but I'm saying that it's making some confusion if we call on it. You see, gentlemen, 252 thousand square meters is this Vojarna called Marshall Tito in Srajjev, 252 thousand. And of that part there are 44 thousand. There is a brother of breadth, there is room for everyone to be satisfied with who is in the present time, and here we have heard that the Government of the Republic of BiH is in the previous time of '96. I think years have passed that decision on the right to use Vojarna for the needs of the University of Sarajevo. There, in the meantime, or in accordance with such decisions, other users moved in. 39 In my knowledge, no one will be denied this land sale to continue their work, when it comes to the University and when it comes to birding and here instead of SFOR, there are now other soldiers there, and some other institutions and institutions. I also want to say that when it comes to the position, otherwise higher education, which is financed at the county level, in this case the owner of the University here is the County of Sarajevo. What I'm saying is, in that case, a well-fat geese would put its neck on. While all the other university centres suffer, how to cut that salary somehow, we are well aware of the moves of the Sarajevo budget. You see, just last year, which is nice and commendable, with that budget, 3 million funds went to repair houses for returnees in eastern Sarajevo. I support it and congratulate you. But I know that other counties can't possibly get what's within their funding to finance it. They have time for both wider and the rest of the funds. I can justifiably confirm it and I have such knowledge of the rest of the funds in the Sarajevo Budget. It is true, too, that there is a time ahead when universities need to answer questions about the structure towards Bologna and other processes of higher education institutions in BiH where big, big money is certainly needed. Is the right way today, I repeat, maybe I'll fall into that trap too, and talk about that money, and I think the distinguished representative Leho said it well. These are the funds of the BiH Budget and may remain the subject of talks for another occasion. And I think the most honest thing would be to settle our obligations to those people from whom it was stolen. No one has thought about it in power yet, but I think this could be the beginning of an unfair thing with BiH citizens where they've been stolen and we will never, ever, ever and future or anything in the public, create security for savings investments because they've been cheated down and down the road. Here, there would be one beginning,..... negligible means, that would be maybe 0.01% of the total funds that are only in the Federation, because these are BiH funds. So, it's negligible but maybe go and say it, here's hope. Hope exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16356	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kunić, let Ljilja Milićević be prepared, finally. I apologize to her. You are Mr. Duraković after that, you will be called.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16357	Well, my thoughts are on the trail of my predecessor, that we should probably make a decision, but the truth here is a little bit of a shortcut, there's a little bit of a dispute here, as Mr. Špirić said, is formally-lawfully asking the question. And the Constitutional Commission itself, when it debated, probably did not go into the essence of this problem. It is indisputable that BiH is the title holder, holder of property ownership, therefore, and that it appears as an entity that sells the property. However, these questions are regulated by legal regulations and there is no dilemma. Even in the decision, it's mentioned that it's a general act. The decision as a decision may be a general act, but in the function of developing certain provisions of the law and not as a general act which regulates certain rights and obligations. An individual act may arise, and this decision should therefore be considered an individual act in a specific case, not by a general act. Thank you. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16358	The word is Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Get Nijaz Duraković ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16359	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Reading the conclusion that we have received from the Chairmanial Council of Ministers, Mr Terzić, and the Proposal for a decision on the sale of immovableity, we see in fact, here is not a controversial need, and it seems that we would be solved all the problems if it were written here, that we would give in to immobility, would we adopt it for an hour. We seem to have a problem, when we get some funding, what do we do with them? The proposal for a decision on the sale of immovable property does not respect the conclusion of Mr Terzić, where he proposes, means that the decision establishes the way in which the funds will be spent. In this proposal that I got, it's not supposed to be that way, so here's how it's gonna be. I would like to say one thing, if there was a lady here from the BiH Law Department, since we weren't all on the Commission, maybe we're talking and sharing opinions on certain things, where we can get accurate information, so there wouldn't be a need for a discussion to waste time. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like Minister Marić to tell us how he plans to cover these funds in Budget, what is the position of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. 'Cause believe me, none of the extra heads hurt. Looks like the only thing that hurts is our head of 12 million and 800. In that sense, I'd like to give the word if possible to the people of the D.A. and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16360	Thank you. That word has already been offered. The people are here, but they can come to the phone, of course. Mr. Nijaz Duraković. Let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16361	I'll just briefly recapitulate what's already been heard. Namely, about this space of the former marshal already adopted the regulation plan and we then showed it, they verified from the competent authorities etc. etc. But what matters at cantonal and federal, and state level, is that all decisions have been made, valid decisions, particularly those concerning the formation of that so-called. campus. And to tell Mr. Jović that the idea of this campus has just been triggered by American politics, the US Embassy, with the support of everyone to tell the leading EU countries for a reason that I will later say. And that it was all done just in agreement with all the American ambassadors from war on up here to today. And that's when it came to the idea, since American policy estimates that the Alipasha Street embassy is quite insecure, that it should be used along with some security rules and international conventions that, of course, one of the important things to say is methic, or what I know is space, to separate that campus and other objects that are scheduled there, not just university campuses. And so, there are already three colleges, there's a university library, which, you know, is completely burned out. When you say, say, with the right to know that these funds should be returned to those taken from them, I agree, and most taken from the 41st University of Sarajevo. Just remember how many days there have been of the Vjećnica and how many millions of books in it have burned down and what cultural treasure it has burned down. That 80% is at least 80% of all colleges, high schools, clinics, etc. burned or completely devastated or and destroyed, etc., then it's one way to get it back to those whose property it was. But, well, he's there and now he's illegally located SFOR. The decision taken in all this is a decision on the legal, legitimate governments of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know, you're lawyers, there's plenty of you here, I'm sorry Suada left. I don't know if the law can be applied retroactively and whether something that has been passed long ago and where significant material resources have already been invested, where they have already been invested, especially in the University Library, in the Centre for Peace at the Faculty of Traffic at the Faculty of Crime, etc., the funds that the universities themselves have financed, in part from international donations, in part, etc. that everything is now questionable. And in the end, when you refer to the Bologna Declaration, I wish that when we discussed this Bologna declaration that you had a high opinion of it so that you were principled in the adoption of the Law of Higher Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16362	Thank you. Replica Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16363	I apologize to the honourable representative, but it is inappropriate to address me in the words of his discussion and to contemplate the entire discussion on my behalf. It's inappropriate and I think the president could have said it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16364	Speaks from a place you don't understand
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16365	Well, this one I don't want to understand at all, but literally as I understand it. I didn't say a word to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, because she did, I just said that she made a decision by not asking questions and not putting myself in my mouth that I didn't think or said. Secondly, the big words and thoughts of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina were spoken here today, precisely on principles, respecting the principles of the Constitution, the law that was masquerade and I must say, and this had elements racistly abolished here. I didn't vote for him and he showed it to the Constitutional Court that he had the way he did. And calling on me as co-responsible for the process of higher education in Bosnia and Herzegovina today does not stand, the process is ongoing. How he is prepared for him, how a person is determined for him does not get in the way of the framework law. My thoughts were on the adoption of the Law on Higher Education, not on those who advocate Bosnia and Herzegovina, but on the adoption of separate laws. We didn't agree to that, and we'll never get along. Mine was to pass laws, not framework laws, but higher education laws in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the whole of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to apply principles throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina and not to segregate and divide Bosnia and Herzegovina as far as it comes to mind. That's what we disagreed on, and my replica is that way. Here it means to make a decision that's right in front of us, not to spread it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16366	Thank you, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16367	This is a divorce.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16368	Thank you. Mr. Nijaz Duraković. The answer to the replica is yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16369	I'll just say one sentence. I, Mr. Jović disagreed so much, I, you said you advocated the Higher Education Act for all of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The bill of law was like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16370	May I have your attention, please? IVO
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16371	Speak right now, you don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16372	You don't have to interpret me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16373	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Let the defender of Bosnia and Herzegovina be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the predecessors have made constructive proposals and we're bringing this to an end. Of course there was a dilemma among the members of the Constitutional Legal Commission, but we received a good argument from the public defender of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so as I speak, I am joining Mrs Milićević and those who have proposed here and the chairman himself said that it would be good to hear us and the oral argument, in addition to this letter written by us that in this way MPs, if they possibly have a dilemma in this way means good information. We assumed within the Constitutional and Legal Commission that there would be certain dilemmas and we proposed to the pravobranilaštvo General that at this session they prepare themselves and that just as they explained to the members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission they do so today at the session. It is too high to say that the United States is a significant co-worker and partner of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 43 Herzegovina. Here's my colleague says, most importantly, I agree in this way, as in other countries too, that they have embassies in the most representative places in other countries, it's perfectly normal for them to be in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that we consider it mutually interested. As a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission I have received means a certain argument in the sense that the procedure is satisfied. That is what I insisted there and today that it is good for both the US and Bosnia and Herzegovina to respect the procedure. And it is truly chronologically explained here and in this written form, and at the same time it is possible for Parliament to solve this issue by individual decision, because there is currently no law that regulates this area. So we have the procedure and everything that is available in the previous procedure as well as we have in the finals today. And this is what I end up with, which is that we've come into a situation where we can discuss the resources. It's completely understandable. I also support what Professor Duraković and Professor Azra said, it also makes sense as well as what Mr Andrić said and Ivo Miro Jović d might be better if we agreed that it is not disputed that these funds are Bosnia and Herzegovina's funds. And I join this proposal by the lady means Leho when she said that we should resolve this issue later, and not now it turns out that we are fighting over maybe here are the first couples to come here on this basis by selling real estate in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to bid different demands. I think it would be better to support this decision, and the funding that we will eventually receive on this basis and secondly after the law that we simply create one plan, a programme together with the Ministry of Finance and the vault, how these funds will best use what Bosnia and Herzegovina will have. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16375	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. You've just reached this time allowed for discussion. We have another MP reported and Mrs Miletić is correct. Shall we have an emissary and then Mrs. Miletić? You got it. Mr. Jozo Križanović, since no more MPs have answered and we will give the final Mrs. Miletić, and then I will bring down the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say that I am in principle in favour of making a decision on the sale of land to the United States of America for the construction of its embassy. However, of course that decision implies certain ambiguities, and I have these ambiguities, especially in terms of price, which may not be the subject of this decision and I will shorten my discussion by hoping to get some answers from the Bosnia and Herzegovina's Attorney General. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16377	Thank you. Mrs. Miletić. Please, and then Minister of Finance and Treasury of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16378	Thank you. Dear Chairman, esteemed MPs, I will try to state the chronological status of the property in question. A question has been raised from the chairman Mr Špirić – the legal status of real estate, on what basis did this property, or by what law did these properties become state property? Before, actually, before the '90s. the years of property in question were entered on, as in the possession list, as the owner of the SFRY, and in the land register were entered as social property. So before '90. A year before the war. Following the entry into force of the Agreement on matters of succession which have been producing legal facts since 02.06.2004, the property concerned has become owned by Bosnia and Herzegovina and Annex A to the Agreement. Therefore, according to those provisions, it is prescribed that all movable and immovable assets of former SFRY and military assets are transferred to the property of the successor countries and property on whose territory that property is located. As I said before, these properties were state property. By passing the Law on Turning Social into State Property, this property became property, became state property. I have to say it's '96. Bosnia and Herzegovina's government of the property concerned, not only the subject of the sale, but the whole complex, which covers 90,107 m2, was transferred to use the University of Sarajevo. So it's a '96 decision. In May, only the right to use was transferred, so that the property legal service, i.e. the competent authority of the municipality of Novo Sarajevo, would deliver a solution, carry out an administrative procedure, make a decision, and claim that the University of Sarajevo and the holder of the right to use, and not only the right to use. When activities took place in the sale of the property concerned, and these activities were conducted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with the US Embassy, which included the BiH Ombudsman's office, I further determined who and how it was registered as the holder of the right of disposal, i.e. as the holder of the right of use in land books. When I found in the land books that as a holder of the right of disposal, or property rights run by the University of Sarajevo, and based on a solution of property law that, in my opinion, was illegal, because the property legal service could not bring such a solution for the reason that the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina did not transfer the right to dispose, but only the right to use. Next, we set out in the administrative procedure to implement 45 solutions that were illegal and annulled under the right of supervision under the Administrative Procedure Act, and that is what we have come up with. The University was also involved in this administrative procedure. He is aware of the error made in and before the authority of the administration of Novi Sarajevo and land books, of course land books have been written, registered on the basis of this solution and this solution has been annulled and has been registered as the holder of the right of disposal, became the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina and this solution dates back to 21.07.2004. I have to say that the university, and here it was being set up, I actually heard from a discussion of MPs that the university and the owner of the property in question. The owner of the property concerned is exclusively the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, exclusively, the sole holder of property rights. And as holder of property rights, as referred to in Article 3. The law on property legal relations that is valid, which we have taken over. It can traffic, hold or lease that property. Bosnia and Herzegovina, here it is before you whether you will make that decision or not. The right holder can traffic the property in question, yes. There's no dispute. And as for the price, there were a lot of questions here about the price, whether it's real. The assessment of the market value of the property was established by the relevant house, which is the Office for the Construction of Canton of Sarajevo. Even it's lower than it's accepted by the U.S., it's an estimated 11 million 130 grand, and we get 12 million and something, 12 million and 800, 13 million. Please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16379	Please don't. Let the lady finish at the pay phone. Go ahead, move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16380	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16381	That I didn't understand you, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16382	Is the sale price for building land included?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16383	That included price included city building land.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16384	Okay. Do you have anything else?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16385	Nothing. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16386	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance and Treasury Mrs Ljerka Marić. Here's a little bit, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16387	I thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16388	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16389	the order of the discussion carried out. So I'd like to ask you to adopt this decision today, and here's the lady in the end, the Attorney General has brought this to you legally as we stand. As for the funds that will be realised by selling this facility, we really didn't want to propose the distribution of these funds, because we wanted to win first, to see if we could make a decision on the sale of this building. As the complicated state of affairs is related to the Law, the Agreement on Sucession Issues, means ownership of funds, indeed the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, all the funds have so far belonged to the whole country. Two things are important to me. The first is to make an individual decision on how the funds will be made. It's important that the ones that we are now working on right now be compensated. So there's a couple of these things that we can't possibly get past in this process. We need to clear and fairly resolve these relations with the current users of these spaces, that's one thing, and the other thing is that we still need to make a common decision on the allocation of funds. And in that case, the decision will be made publicly, transparent and there should be no problem with that. So it's important to me that those who participated in this process be compensated, but we didn't really get into that subject until we saw here's the possibility of selling this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16390	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've received a motion for a decision on the sale of immovable property. She's got four bets. Please. At the request of the Party Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am giving a break of 10 minutes. I'm asking you in 10 minutes here in the O.R. to be. So 13 o'clock to be right here in the O.R. 47 Please take your seats. [[PAUZA]] We're going back to work. Sir, we've closed the debate. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić, who asked for a break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16391	The Party Club for Bosnia and Herzegovina has asked for a break to create an opportunity for itself to suggest one conclusion. Unfortunately, we couldn't technically ensure that you all got on the bench, but it's very short and I'm asking the chairman to introduce the MPs to the proposed text of the conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16392	Please, nice. So the BiH Party proposes a two-point conclusion. First - The Council of Ministers undertakes that the funds obtained by selling this land are directed to the University of Sarajevo in accordance with the existing Master Plan and the Campus Regulatory Plan and under Two - The right to use on the rest of the land on campus remains at the University of Sarajevo. This is all suggested in connection with the proposed decision on the sale of 44.175 m2 at the former barracks Maršal Tito to the US Embassy. So this conclusion has two points. Please, the debate is closed. We are now pleading on the motion for a decision, a decision we have received from the Council of Ministers that has four positions. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote, prepare to vote and vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina is 38 for, without a vote against and with 1 abstention, 25 FBiH, 13 RS, so a sufficient and enthusiastic majority made a decision on the sale of US immovable property. Now, so the decision has been made. I now propose the conclusion of the Party for BiH party on the plea. A proposal for a conclusion. The conclusion is that the proposal for a conclusion is 1. It undertakes the Council of Ministers to allocate funds obtained by selling this land to the University of Sarajevo in accordance with the existing Master Plan and the Campus Regulatory Plan and under 2. To keep the right to use the rest of the land on campus at the University of Sarajevo. 48 Prepare to vote. This is a proposal from the Party for BiH and I put this proposal to the vote as one conclusion with two points. Prepare to vote. Vote now. - 14 for, 15 against, 10 abstentions. So it has no general parliamentary majority and I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. This is how we ended the fifth item of the agenda. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. A report from the Commission on gender equality on visits to Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal correctional institutions in which the prison sentences are sustained by women, the Commission for Gender Equality submitted a report on 7 January 2005, and was forwarded to you on 11 January. You have seen that the Commission has visited criminal jurisprudence homes in East Sarajevo and Tuzla and recorded conditions and conditions in which the sentence is maintained by convicted persons with special interest in the rights and freedoms of imprisoned persons and women. At the end of the report, with the European standards, the Commission proposes to adopt the conclusions contained in 13 points to the House to level the standards of maintaining penalties in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions with European standards. I'm opening a debate on the report and the proposed conclusions. Here you go. Here you Izvolit, Mrs. Majkić. Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16393	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, I have read very carefully this report by the Commission to achieve gender equality and I can say that I am pleased and thank them in two directions. In one part of the first reason I met myself and I hope all of us about the way women live and work in these specific institutions. The second part refers to the fact that this report confirmed the importance of Bosnia and Herzegovina having a good institutional issue of achieving gender equality at both legislative and executive level. I don't want to dispute anything in this report, but I think we should supplement it. The addition of the party's content relates to the matter related to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, so there is a report, the Beijing Declaration, or the Action Platform, and the Law on Gender Equality, and in that sense I suggest that the current report be complemented by the following points: The first point is the 14th point in the case of the legislation that follows and which is handled in the execution of criminal sanctions. Here I am referring to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions against Republika Srpska and the Federation. It is necessary to initiate procedure 49 to comply with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to include provisions defining direct or indirect discrimination and gender-based violence, including harassment and sexual harassment. It is also necessary to initiate an initiative to introduce in law enforcement of criminal sanctions the obligation to collect, conduct and record and publish statistics classified by gender, particularly on the number of convicted persons per sex, taking at the same time a criminal offence, or the qualification and length of the punishment to which individuals are sentenced, or convicted, and age of education and social economic status when they are executed. Statistics must also be filled in with data on the number of pardoned persons by gender, taking into account the crime, so his qualification, length of punishment, age, education and social status, and the work engagement of prisoners and prisoners, also classified by half and mentioned parameters. I believe you know that in this country we have really little quality statistics and if we don't work on all the fields to get new statistics we won't be able to make any deeper analysis. The following point 15, when it comes to statistics, is also necessary to oblige criminal correctional authorities to keep records of prison officials, also classified by gender, and their hierarchical status. Point 16 reads - when it comes to the programmes and measures that all state authorities are obliged to bring, on the basis of Article 21. The Law on Gender Equality, which concerns improving the position of women in the area in which they operate, means that criminal correctional institutions have adopted a programme and measures that will cover three areas of action. So under point 16 I propose point 16.1. which says - programmes, measures and procedures to prevent discrimination based on half the harassment and sexual harassment in criminal correctional institutions of effective mechanisms for investigating human rights violations of women committed by any civil servant, as well as punishment by procedure and criminal measures which will be prescribed by the act. 16.2. Programmes and measures for basic education, i.e. professional training of all officials of criminal jurisprudence homes and medical and other professional staff serving these institutions on the earth, international acts and conventions in this area, as well as the Law on Gender Equality in Bosnia and Herzegovina in order to improve women's positions in criminal correctional institutions, to provide women with the right to human and human relations, without abuse, and to prevent discrimination in the practice of these institutions by gender, gender-based violence, gender-based harassment, harassment and sexual harassment. We do not need to specifically remind that there are many things going on in these institutions and that it is happening in the face of the public and that we need to pay particular attention to that part. And finally point 16.3. Programs and improvement of the health conditions of prisoners. In one place we say prisoners don't have adequate dental protection. But what we don't write a word about is that we haven't done anything, or anything seems to be in their reproductive health and protecting them from sexually transmitted diseases. Point 17. refers to the need to launch entities' ministries in charge of social protection and employment resistors related to this area to bring within the shortest time period of the resociation programmes for persons who endure a prison sentence in criminal correctional institutions in terms of training, to become useful members of society and not continue with criminal activities, and to have the possibility of employment in certain areas of work, without discrimination because of the fact that they were previously convicted. In the end, I think the report should invite the state authorities at all levels to provide the funds and ensure that the measures listed in these programmes are implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16394	Thank you, Mrs. Majkić. Who else wants to talk? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, if no one answers, Mrs. Mubera Ušanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16395	As a member of the Committee on Gender Equality, I was able to speak with the President of the Commission and the Secretary of the Commission. I am sorry that I have not been able to inform my colleagues from the Commission about my proposal for one conclusion, as regards the second conclusion made by our commission, and I will make one recommendation based on the information I came to yesterday and by checking it out before the meeting, so I apologize to my colleagues in the Commission, I have failed to inform them what they are not obliged to do if they are against this proposal, I am withdrawing it. The second conclusion here in our commission's report to be appealed is to find the possibility of establishing an independent specialised prison facility for women. In the canton from which I come from the Bosnian-Porinjski in the Municipality of Foca Ustikolin in the construction is a prison under the authority of the Federal Ministry of Justice, I apologize, and that prison is, his purpose was to be made as a man's prison for change and insufficient fulfillment to say so. The cantonal justice ministry has applied to the federal justice ministry to build a women's prison. This is a decision, I will now try to dark telegraph you with information that I have come to. The facility is in construction phase. It's a single-story function that currently holds 10 detainees, male prisoners mean. The top floor is unarmed. The minimum capacity is about 100 places and is outside the settlement. There are 20 dulms of land around the facility itself, around the facility itself, which is necessary for this type of facility. But the means are necessary to complete this facility. 51 So I now recommend extending the second conclusion of the Commission on Gender Equality, that the State Ministry of Justice contact entity, primarily the Federal Ministry of Justice, in order to find funds for the closure of the KPZ facility, Foča Ustikolin, in order to provide better conditions for women who maintain prison sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16396	I thank Mrs. Ušanović. Who else wants to talk? I have Mr. Križanović written here if he refers to this item of the agenda. It's not. I'm sorry. Here's what it's all about. I've also written Mrs. Ljiljana Milićevič. Did you sign up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16397	I want to speak as a member of the Commission and as someone who is one, so we divided the Commission into two parts, some visited this institution at the Tower, some were in Tuzla. There are two institutions where women support punishment. So we didn't have a woman in custody here at detention, 15 women in the Tower, in Tuzla, a second number of women. We were trying to record the meaning of only two institutions, to record the situation, and to suggest the conclusions here, as we've seen. What is here, everything we have been saying and Mrs Ušanović, can in fact be undermined by the problem of the usual institutions where men support punishment, which is the sixth conclusion that I particularly draw attention to you, where she says – with the aim of providing sufficient financial resources necessary for the work of the institutions, it is necessary for greater separation, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina in its budget should allocate certain funds, given the circumstances that the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina and its prosecution have already established and that they have already created certain obligations that do not settle. What's this about? The fact is that our institutions have already filed a lawsuit against the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina because it does not pay them compensation for the people in custody there. It's a big sum, a couple hundred thousand marks. When we ask the question at the facility, people tell me we don't have that farm that people work on, so they produce food, they owe us 500-600 thousand marks. Who owes? The court of Bosnia and Herzegovina. How to talk about video surveillance, ask for a donation when we have a government debt to those institutions. So there's a problem for both usticola and the rest. It's just that there's been no peace of mind for the people in custody. Every day it's invoiced, it's not paid. They say we're not asking for much help, we're just asking for what we've earned, so we're going to find a solution. Everything they look for solutions and what I urge to support these conclusions is that they say they are able to then finance, to provide video surveillance, to go slowly towards these European standards when they are punished, we have particularly accentuated women this time. So we went around and saw how we actually figured out how women are being treated, so we're told they have a duty, but it's not appropriate, it can't have every doctor's profile, but it's being provided in Cassindol to go to doctors of all kinds. Believe me, we didn't write here that there's also the possibility of a hairdresser coming, visiting a hairdresser and 52 things that are specific for women. It's not ideal, but I think it's in relation to the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina right now at some level that's better than anyone who's gone there than I expected. So it's better at the moment, but it's far from what would be optimal. But we should support the conclusions, especially this conclusion, which says to strengthen the commitments towards prisons in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the budget so that people can do their job as best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16398	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Since we've had a few new proposals here, I suggest we put in charge of the competent commission that has also submitted this report to hold another session, to sum up all these new proposals that we've received here today, and to propose possible solutions or possible additions to this report here. It would be pretentious if today we were trying to, on the basis of a very contentious and extensive discussion by Mrs. Majkić, or Mrs. Ušanović, or Mrs. Milićević formulate the conclusions. So I think it's a good idea for the Commission to do that, that we have it at the next session, so I ask you to accept this conclusion and plead on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted by a majority of 32 votes in favour and 1 against, with a sufficient entity majority and without abstentions, adopted a proposal for this conclusion. I apologize to Mr. Joza Križanović, I couldn't give my word, because I've already launched this plea mechanism. It was too late, the debate was closed. We're going to the next item on the agenda. Please. The seventh item of the agenda is Ad.7. Reviewing the report, please, Mr. Križanović, I concluded the debate and the moment I gave the signal that the vote is being raised by you. I can't give you my word right now. I called you. I say, I have your name and name written here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16399	I've had to respond to the suggestion of your conclusion. That's why I reacted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16400	I've opened up an argument on the subject.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16401	But you suggested the conclusion and I have to respond to that conclusion. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16402	But you should have reacted until I started the voting mechanism. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16403	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16404	Thank you. We move to the seventh item of the agenda, which is Ad.7. Consideration Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004 Dear ladies and gentlemen Members, you received a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004. You have also received the opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications, which as the Commission responsible for this area, has discussed this report and the Commission proposes in its report that the House adopt this report. I'm opening a debate. Here we have three representatives from the Regulatory Commission. I am opening the debate, so I give my word to Mr. Milorad Živković. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16405	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Commission with the secretary, I heard from the phone and expressed my opinion on our report to the Commission, more specifically on the proposal for an opinion, and if chronologically followed that reports came from the State Regulatory Commission on Electricity and we first received a financial plan for 2005 in which on page 2 of the 2004 financial plan, 1.583,710 KM in, by the end of 2004, we spent, i.e. the assessment that 1.008.464 marks. According to my rough calculations, this is about 500 thousand marks of difference, in order to add 500 000 to that figure on page 6 of that same plan in 2004 to 1,583,710 figures, not the one that was spent on that figure, and the amount for 2005, 2,010,414 KM, which does not mean an increase of 126 index, but from those 500 thousand neutral ones from the previous year, is practically a million more budgets in 2005. I'm saying this because it's the state agencies, because someone in this country has given the right for those who live on electricity to live well, and those who do health care don't live so well, even though both represent the state agency and state authorities and care for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I calculated that these regular salaries are about 4,500 marks gross, no diaries, no fees, etc. etc. And I don't intend to elaborate any more, but I'm just letting it know that the story of 54 parliamentary salaries, the story of some other things never came out here in comparison to the salaries of the agencies with the salaries in courts, etc. etc. The second document we received was the 2004 Work Report, which said on page 5 that in 2004, DER had issued a solution approving the mechanism across the border trade, and the detailed mechanism had entered the scene in March 2002 and Bosnia and Herzegovina because of its natural position, the transit country in the region and the CBT mechanism is now allowing the financial realization of such a position. My question three, or four weeks ago, I can no longer remember the question of how much until now the Republic of Croatia is in debt to Bosnia and Herzegovina based on the transfer through our network of money. I've been dealing with the numbers for about 100,000 marks a month. I didn't even get an answer to my business question today, and nowhere in this report has it been written whether or not it happened, who is who to whom it is due and how these claims will be fulfilled. In line with this, we received a report from our commission, where it cited in three points an opinion on this report, and let's say in the view of Article 1(2), the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina was a participant in the energy event on 10 October 2004 etc. etc. I'm asking the question of what we're boasting about. Practically, Bosnia and Herzegovina had to do so if we thought that only Bosnia and Herzegovina would remain a black hole in South East Europe, that someone from London would allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to cut the power here, so that someone not in London has light, it's just our deceptions. So it's not really a big event. I think that's something Bosnia and Herzegovina had to do. The second point of view is that they have achieved solid results in employment and intensive training of employees. People do their jobs, they have money. We even see an extra 500 grand left, and they're asking for another 500 grand. That they have adopted legal acts, etc. etc. Well, it's the agency's job to pass acts, statutes, and I don't think I know what we've been commending them specifically here and that according to the law, a financial audit was carried out for 2003. Please, the custom in this Parliament was when we discussed the revision of all the institutions of the BiH Parliament and the Presidency when we see the audit report for the previous year, that means 2004, so let's say that on the basis of this financial report you know we support your work report, etc. etc. So it's just too much to discuss the 2004 work report, if we didn't get a financial report on the revision of their business, so that it wasn't after the BiH Parliament adopted a report on the work, you know, and by reviewing these or such irregularities, so let's just say we didn't know that. Let me remind you that, as far as I know about international organisations, whether it's FOR or who entered Republika Srpska's electricity industry and I think it's looking for business and EFTA data in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in electricity trade, etc. etc. That based on this and that information, we can discuss the work of this agency and my proposal is in the light of all that I have stated that it is probably also in the Agency's law that the Agency's duty to submit a report, etc. I do not know who is now conducting the investigation in Bosnia and Herzegovina on the trades of 55 electricity and all connected to this circuit, after we discuss again as a part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16406	I thank Mr. Živković. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Have Sead Avdić prepare, afterwards Mr Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16407	Here I will speak very briefly on behalf of the Members of the Party for BiH, so I have two comments and a few questions. So first of all we support this concept of reporting, i.e. the way the report is made, and I sincerely hope that this is the beginning of breaking down the stereotype of the reporting method. It's very useful to do this on the margins of the report itself, these messages that have educational and so to say a very resembling content that helps a person understand certain things. So a kind of recognition for the concept itself and the way the report is being sparked. The questions are pretty much next. I'm not sure if the commission can give a metric response, you'd be happier if there were people here from the resolution ministry and should be interested in discussing this report from the point of view of the overall problem. So the question is whether Bosnia and Herzegovina is late for reforming the power system from the point of view of Bosnia and Herzegovina's ability to be an equal member of the Southeast European energy community. So that's where I think about that portable company, the other segments that we are, NOS etc. So, I'm not sure if the commission has a mandate and can respond to this as a whole, but I'd be very grateful to be briefly informed, that's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to the revision, I can't remember whether the commission is excluded from the state audit and maybe it would be better and I recommend, I'll take it out on the commission, and it's better if your review committee is doing the state commission and we'll save you up and put you in the same position as the other users of the Budget BiH. So, my recommendation to you is that you use the club in the future, or that the state audit oversees the financial operations of the commission. One, like this, I also hinted at him in a debate about the Law of Postage, I'd like to hear your experiences, what did we get from your accommodation in Tuzla? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16408	I thank Mr. Belkić. Mr. Sead Avdić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dam and gentlemen of the Parliament, my predecessor has taken a lot from my discussion, but one more time to repeat. In objective terms, a simple, original, methodological approach must be highlighted with this report. This is unusual, and it may be good, simply as an example of an agency, to present its report in this way. So, in this context, the mosaic of this report is really unusual and simply refreshes the documents that are in the parliamentary procedure at all. That's one thing. Two, I think this regulatory agency proves the justification of this parliament's thesis and simply a strategy of that is decentralisation of state agencies throughout BiH and it is not disputed. So, according to the development license, etc. What I'd like to ask as much as my colleague Beriz is. Would there be any problem with the aspect of moving the regulatory agency, for example from Sarajevo to Tuzlo, from the aspect of information, communication flows, spatial, technical, economic, etc. In this report, I didn't come across it, and that's good. So you're showing this report that the location of the regulatory agency in Tuzla is relatively well affected and there's no problem with the aspect of functioning. We've had multiple disciplines of this House in terms of location change and you know it well. Three, so this report doesn't stay like this with one thesis that can take away a piece of these complimentaries, it's on the back page, it says this. The work of the National Regulatory Agency, which in its establishment has one... took place in appropriate co-operation with the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. Check this out, through the work of a task force of power regulators and... where we have this with our ministry and with our council of ministers to co-operate through the international group and that this is primarily a simple priority and continues down normal, should be fair and continue this text. I have stood in a place that suits me, which... with adequate participation in the realisation of different projects, which function as a function of establishing a regional market. So it's said what is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, etc. and, in this context, sure that the Ministry of Foreign Trade, I would say, the competent ministry of this regulatory agency needs to define forms of co-operation in this context, which are appropriate to the ministry's position.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16410	Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word. Let Ruža Sopta be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16411	Thank you. I must say that part of the report on the work of this regulatory agency, I support along with our commission's report. However, starting from that and realizing that the financial report and the financial plan of this agency for this year are an integral part of it. I'd like to take a critical look at a few figures from that plan. A good part of it was spoken by fellow Živković. But I'd like to draw one conclusion here, yes, we do have one situation with 57 newly formed agencies that we have an uncontrollable state of spending. I agree it's not budget funds and we don't have any influence, but ultimately it's about state resources, state funds. And, as far as you can tell from this, it's not a problem for the agency at all, as long as it takes from the power industry to get its costs. I've done one analysis, which shows the following. Only for salaries and fees will 20 people in this agency spend a million and 100,70,000 marks per man at 58,500. So that's almost 60,000 marks. For the sake of comparison, we adopted the Budget for this year and a series of very important institutions in BiH, according to this criterion when compared, they are three, up to three and a half times less per item. I've got the data here, I wouldn't want to bother you, for a regress every employee will get 2,000 marks of regression. Each employee will have 1,600 telephone marks. Every employee will have 2,000 marks for their completion, not to mention the journals, etc. So, I noticed that the thing of over-reciplining this financial plan was the problem of how to get on camera, how to deploy that money that in unlimited quantities is available and how to spill it on these items. So, let me put it this way, I'm fraternized by this kind of agency. We can compare it to the arhiva, to our institutes, which we have formed for standard and measurement, etc. all important institutions, with the Court, with the Presidency, are relations two and more times. Therefore, in short, I will not be able to accept this part, and I will advocate the conclusion, that it is suggested to this agency that it corrects this in line with the state of the country and at least some sort of orientation, which I can take from BiH institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16412	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mrs. Ruža Sopta has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16413	I thank Mr. Chairman, kolegica and colleagues, I will join colleagues who have supported this manner of reporting on the business of state institutions. However, what colleagues have also pointed out, I cannot support, that we as a parliament have no control over the financial operations of these institutions. I don't know, in truth, whether it's a failure in the State Regulatory Commission Act or in something else, where the Audit Act is, I checked at the station, and I know that the State Regulatory Commission has not audited the state's office, or our Finance and Budget Committee has been subject to some kind of right or obligation to deliver them, to provide an audit, a state audit to look into the financial operations of this institution. Secondly, I do not take this report slightly inappropriately into account the audit report of the independent house and comment on the audit report, instead of good practice, that the opinion of the auditor shall be attached to such reports, if it wishes to be informed of the revision of the financial operations of those institutions. So I don't know if I can do it under 58 of this point, or if I'm going to leave it for the next time, I would launch an initiative to have all the institutions, which I saw in the Post Law, where we also noticed that mail, is not defined by the Post Act, that the State Audit has jurisdiction in revising the financial operations of that institution, where we acted with amendments and repairs. If this is the case in all the institutions established after the Revision Act, on the basis of a state audit, that it should simply act or take from that law or other laws, in order for all institutions to be placed under the jurisdiction of the State Audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16414	I thank Mrs. Sopta. Is anyone else answering for word? Does anyone from the Commission want to take a word? Mr. Mirsad Salkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16415	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, I would like first of all to thank you for your positive and negative comments. I, without a part of the question, have made a note of myself, meaning without this kind of communication, about the requirement to clarify certain things, but I will now try to follow the statements, or the questions of the MPs, and to give some answers. First of all, we are bound by the Law on Transfer and Regulatory of the Electricity System, so the law that treats our establishment and our work is required to deliver to Parliament by the end of November our financial plan, i.e. Budget, and by the end of December for the previous year, we deliver a report on the work. These two documents we delivered both in time and we did it the way the law prescribed it. Not following the comments and questions of the MPs now, I want two or three things to point out. First, it has recently been adopted, if I am not wrong with the Finance Act, i.e. on financing and financing the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it also treats the way in which the Budgets of Regulatory Commissions are adopted, and that is likely to be applied after the adoption of sublegal acts for the next year and 2006 respectively. So we did this, everything we did in accordance with the Law that treats our work. The next thing you know, this commission was practically formed, or the decision was made in 2002, in mid-2003, we were appointed to the three Commissioners, who each year change as chairman and then practically in 2003, somewhere in the summer the three of us started working. As for 2003, practically, we have audit reports, but it treats only one small part of the costs, which were covered at the end of 2003. In 2004, someone there mentioned, we hired our first employees somewhere in August 2004. So the costs practically began to take place in the second half of 2004. As far as I know, the State Audit hasn't started the audit in 2004 yet. As far as we're concerned, we expect and we consider both desirable and we act so as to expect tomorrow when the State Audit begins to tour, or 59 control institutions, that under their control will also be the State Regulatory Commission. As far as I know, it hasn't started working on a review of the financial plan for 2004 in any state institution as far as I'm doing in the press. So, the moment the review comes, we're absolutely ready and we expect the review to come. Because, look, we're not gonna hide behind it. The books are clean and I think we're acting as much as we think we are in accordance with the laws and with the situation that's here right now. It's a small remark. When it comes to the budget, i.e. the financial plan for 2000 and if today is a debate on the report, but we can reach both things. So we didn't have the right indicators when it came to 2004 to compare to 2005 and because of costs and because of the space, which we practically rented somewhere in Tuzla this summer and because of the number of employees and for all the costs they were, so there was a financial plan there, which was also done in a way that had no historical value behind it. Only a plan for 2006, could be a reference plan, where we will be able to measure both our costs and the planned activities for the following year and, for this reason, this comparison was the way it is. By law, too, all the funds transferred from the previous year enter the budget for the following year, thus reducing the regulatory compensation, which is... or regulated companies are paying this commission. In that sense, this fee will be far less in this year than it was in the previous year. There are still certain things, and I think how much to get into that part of it today, let's say the number of employees, the plan was made compared to 22, possibly two other employees were planned, certain costs were situationed as they were, but maybe now in this, in some way the answer to the question they were asked, maybe I'm touching myself again. I think I asked Mr. Živković's question in one part of the answer, so, when it comes to these five hundred thousand, million, it means, we've asked an evaluation of the implementation of the plan, but when we planned to take the plan from last year, which, again, is not adequate for monitoring, because in full capacity we started working somewhere in the second half of 2004 and we couldn't track it. I'll just mention, by the way, the fact that our salaries, the average salaries are not as much as said, but again 22 employees appear, there in the costs have some means which are intended and the use of cars and already how it is going, but the fact is, I won't hide it, these are average salaries that are higher than in the state and in many, not in all, but in these many institutions and in the economy of BiH, but they are also, it seems to me somewhere at the sector level, meaning electrical activities, where we are being monitored here and that, according to our assessment, are adequate to the qualification structure and professional profile of people working on this job. Furthermore, the CBT mechanism was mentioned. By the way, it was said there that in 2002 in Europe this mechanism began to be mentioned, it was in the trial work in 2004, so, as it is said in the first six months, it was only a reckoning, it did not come to life, a virtual period. He practically started working somewhere in the middle of July 1st 2004, in a situation where we didn't have employees, so the three of us got involved in Southeast Europe, and this mechanism started with the application in the second half of last year in 2005 and I have to say that the results of our sector are now not going to talk about which power plants, which the entities of the Elektroprivreda, but our 60 sector have achieved certain funds, I think somewhere around 300,000 euros is positive for the complete sector. This mechanism is both in Europe and in Southeast Europe, because this is the mechanism of Southeast Europe, meaning something that is alive, which is complemented and changed every year, and it is being upgraded, it is expected to have a positive outcome when it comes to this mechanism. The issue of Croatia's debt for transport, etc. I have to say first, and if I knew any information, we as a commission are not relevant to that part. These are the competent power plants they've been working on. The fact in the CBT mechanism has at its initial stage had some problems in applying the mechanism, but probably in this year all these problems will be overcome. The important thing is that the situation is far better now. I have to say clearly now that's my grade. I've kind of touched this sector before. By adopting the CBT mechanism and tomorrow by entering this European community of Southeast Europe, we will avoid situations that in one part of Europe, we come to a situation where our economic operators have closed doors when it comes to the transport or transmission of electricity. I remember that it was a situation towards Slovenia, also down towards Montenegro and Albania, and in this way we avoided it and quality did it, or not we did, we just approached this mechanism and I think that we, or operator of this ZEKS, who will turn it into an operator of the system and three electrical industries, because it is not yet a portable company, which I will say afterwards, is not formed, successfully working and I think it is something that is positive for Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially after the re-innovation of this complete integration of two zones and I, no matter what, have to say that, however, it is a big thing that did not make us as a regulatory commission, we don't have any merit for that, but those people who have dealt with these businesses, it is three electro-priveds. I'm sorry, I'm gonna follow these questions a little bit. So, once again, I draw up for all the questions that have been raised and what I read in the press, which are controls, if I'm not wrong in Trebinj, and that was before in Sarajevo and Mostar, it's not the responsibility of this commission. We're going to get full jurisdiction a little later, or we already have it in one piece, but we're going to get it after the adoption of these acts, which I'm going to talk about now. On Mr. Belkić's question. Are we late? Be careful, we are also late and that the Electricity Company and the System Operator, which is an obligation under those two laws that have been passed, we, when it comes to reforming this sector, are late. That's definitely it. Fortunately, or unfortunately, we're not the only ones in this region, but I'm afraid because of some things that we could stay then and last, but we're definitely late, because, I'm just talking about that formal part when it comes to the formation of a transmission company and system operators, which should have been done in accordance with the law, which was passed in this House, but the delay is so much that I think the international member of the one who decides should be involved, unfortunately because of certain inerts, seems to me that hasn't happened yet. So this will lead to certain delays, when it comes to including us, our involvement in the South East European market. As much as I have information on that contract, that memorandum will turn into a binding contract. He was to be adopted in December, signed and then in March, I think he now has information that he will be in June this year and he has given certain deadlines there. I think that it is very important for us as a state and a sector of electricity, or energy sector, to approach it and do things that we must do, to be equal and full members of that community, because this is the first step and, regardless of whether we are members of the European Union or not, but through the energy sector, we will probably become members of the European community in that part within about three years, and it will probably be the sector that will be the first to enter the 61st European family, regardless of whether we are in formal law members of the European Union. In addition to these jobs, we have other things that are important when it comes to this sector and entering into... the first question is, I will mention action plans, but I will not mention them at all in the political sense, but in terms of the obligations that have arisen from these plans when it comes to some sort of definition in the rest of the ethora of the electro-production position of parts of production and parts of distribution. So at this point, I'm not burning at all about any physical separation. I only speak in defining the position, which is one very important assumption that these things are done. Furthermore, we have a gas problem and if this commission, under current law, is in charge of electricity. However, the Triti...the community that forms it treats both gas and el, energy and hot, if we want to be opera equal members, we need to approach the drafting and preparation of certain laws, which will define the position of the gas economy in BiH. I must say, after these experiences we have with el. by energy, by my personal assessment, it should be a much easier job, because we have a part of the stalking, probably everywhere, it will probably be these regulatory commissions that will be responsible for gas, because these are usually the commissions that are responsible for energy, meaning, including energy and gas, and now the issue of the sector organisation remains, and that is something we must do before, or in BiH, to be, again, equal members of this South East European Energy Community. Speaking of this part, once again, the achievement of these reform tasks remains a question, when it comes to these regulatory committees, you know that we have three commissions that act, meaning, two entity and state, which have their own jurisdiction, but there is one segment that intertwines, in a way, and we will have to do that now, probably using all the legal solutions in some way to overcome it. It's a trade. When it comes to distribution, production, transmission, that's pretty clean and there's no problem. However, when it comes to trade, because a new system is being introduced, there are some overlaps, and if we don't do something, I'm afraid we're going to get into a situation that we're going to want to do again, and if we don't do something, I'm afraid that if we don't do something, I'm afraid we're going to be in a situation that we're not going to have a single position in BiH again, but we're going to have a situation where one of these same economic entities have to report to us in two places, let's say for trade permits. I think that as a short-term solution, we're going to overcome it without amending the law, that we can find legal solutions to it, and then we're going to see how things work out. The question asked by Mr Belkić and Mr Avdić has answered, so it is very difficult for me to comment now, the issue of the seat in Tuzla. I think it's very difficult for me to comment on for a few reasons, except for the reasons, I'm from Sarajevo, and when I applied for the commission, the headquarters was in Sarajevo. To be clear, never the seat, the Commission has never changed its seat, because the Commission has not even started working in Sarajevo, so it is the first time that it has, on condition, been registered, because it has not yet been registered because of the non-registration of those laws, so we have started working in Tuzla. So, it's a little hard for me, I can be subjective to talking about it. First of all, we don't have any problems in Tuzla, so we understand each other. We found an adequate space, we rented it, we did a little bit at the right time, maybe we did. 62 Communication drive everyone, it's a little more driving to get along. I'm not talking about the three of us, be careful, because two commissioners would always drive, so it doesn't matter to me, it doesn't matter. However, when it comes to all sorts of gatherings, all that is coming is a little bit more driving. Secondly, providing proper staff has led to certain increased costs. I have to mention here it was, I'm sorry I've been saying a little bit longer, here, I'll try a little short, I'm trying to answer every question. We're on the committee...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16416	Once in a year, a man appears in Parliament and it is an important topic, and the first report is, which is why I am not responding, and it is a little longer. I'm asking you if you can try... what's left to say, but since it's the first time and it's once a year, there's no point in interrupting you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16417	And if I were to mention, I think it's very important that if we were successful in Tuzla, it would probably be somewhere else, to hire people, positively in accordance with the '91 census. means with those constitutional provisions, where it is, I'm not going to say one percent, but the national structure is entirely satisfying when asked the '91 list. A year. I say, it would probably be easier to do some things, if the Commission's headquarters were in Sarajevo, because of a lot of things, but it doesn't create us difficulties and big problems in further work. It's more like it creates these inconsistencies when it comes to relations between these three laws. And I'm just gonna try to say a few more things for a little while, not everything. So, there on page 8, it was a single point, so we're working together, so we listed this, this, it's not related through that we, through international institutions, have co-operation with Parliament, maybe that's how it was understood, I'm saying I'm not going back to the question... we delivered the financial plan. Under the new financial law on financial operations of state institutions, we will, after all, behave, and this implies that our budget will be subject to the delivery of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, if I am not mistaken, to the competent ministry, which will make its comments. On the other hand, we expect a state audit. The moment the state audit appears, when you give your report, then it will be normal public and transparent, and this audit report, independent... we will keep him under the law, he will be published in the Official Journal. He was treating 2003, when we practically didn't have much activity. Here, I say, I've made it a little longer. I tried to say what I meant and what you asked, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16418	Thank you, Mr. Salkić. Let's see, first, how many people have been reported for the discussion, and then we'll talk about further work. Today's session hasn't had a break since the beginning, so far, except for a ten-minute break. Let's see, shall we take a break now? We can't end up doing chess. You had the opportunity to get out of here. You didn't come here. I followed as long as it took for 63 lunches, and people worked here at this table. I can't get anywhere. If we can finish in half an hour, then we can move on. Who's got a report for the hearing? Mr. Živković, but please let us cut Mrs. Milićević short now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16419	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Salkić for the very correct statement of all that is in this matter. I think, however, as Parliament, we need to take this information into account, not to adopt any information and that the conclusion that I have given you means that we receive in writing everything we have thought about. I wish, you know, that we had written to tell me that it's not in your jurisdiction who's selling, or who's charging the wire through the BiH network, that I know who to ask. Because I've been asking the Council of Ministers for three months and they won't tell me. So it would be good for you to write to me that it is not in your jurisdiction and that BiH did not lose that much money last year on that alone. I also believe that other MPs who advocate decentralisation would like to have in writing that Tuzla did not, or that BiH did not lose anything by receiving the centre, etc. So I insist that my conclusion be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16420	You don't have to insist. Everything you have said will be in the final debate put before this House. Mrs. Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16421	I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to make a statement about one conclusion, which would, in fact, where we would suggest that the Office for the Review of BiH, the State Audit Office, as it does with the others, do a review of the Commission's business, the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, with this, not only for 2004 but also for a flash report for 2003 since it started working on this commission. For what reason? For a simple reason, if we get a business report here, then financial plans, and that would be our turn to get an auditor who works for everyone else. That's the kind of report we get for Derk. We need to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16422	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16423	I don't know if it was a registered proposal for my conclusion that since this House has no exclusive jurisdiction to adopt or refuse, I suggested that we adopt a conclusion, which is recommended to the Regulatory Agency for El. Energy to revise its 2005 plan and bring it into line with the country's economic situation and the relevant institutions in BiH. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16424	Who else wants to talk? Anyone else want to talk about this? Okay. I'm closing the debate. And now we're entering the plea phase. So, this is the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, and Parliament is legally obliged to consider this report and to adopt it or not to adopt it. So that's one thing. But, Mr. Salkić, I have very different instructions. What were you going to say to Salkić?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16425	You can't hear exposure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16426	Oh, that's great. You've made it easy. Please, Secretary. All right, thank you. So, by law, Parliament takes note of this report. I have information here that according to the law, here, you see the law. I'd ask Secretary dom to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16427	I apologize for taking the right of representatives of the Regulatory Commission to give their opinion, they are also more competent than I am, but I am obliged to tell you next. According to Article 4.10. Law on the transfer of the regulator and the operator of the electrical energy system. First, the Regulatory Commission delivers its financial plan and it is delivered to Parliament exclusively for insight. If we had fulfilled that obligation, we had not had any ideas about putting it on the agenda for all MPs, i.e. the law says the 2005 budget. It's one fact now that MPs need to know. The second thing is next. According to the same member of the law, the Regulatory Commission for Electricity, no later than 31.12 each year, is delivering its report to the Parlametary Assembly of BiH and the competent ministry, which is the foreign trade ministry on its activities for the year in question. Please, nice. Our rule of conduct in Parliament has so far been the following. If we have information about any organ activity that we control and that we have some kind of supervisory function, which in this case is this regulatory commission. We've been receiving information. If one of these organs is, which we, over whom we have a supervisory post, we have adopted those reports so far. Let's not make it, tomorrow we'll get into a situation, and we'll get some reports back to the knowledge, some we'll adopt, etc. We must have a unique approach to this issue. In my opinion, I also interviewed the Secretary of the Regulatory Commission and I wanted his opinion on this question, what to do for these two documents. 65 For me, really, because of the indeterminateness of the law, I sometimes get in a situation that I don’t know what to do with the material that was delivered to me. I appreciate that it should be obvious and every time I use an opportunity, if something is on the insight to deliver, if it is about information to be delivered, if it is about the report to be accepted. I don't dispute the fact either if the House pleads about it, because the law is not precise, so he didn't say, he said it was delivered to Parliament, but did not say to adopt it. But he didn't even say we couldn't adopt him. That's why he specifically said in the financial plan, that the financial plan is the final document, that it was submitted to the MPs and that it would be published as such in the Official Messenger. I think I have properly interpreted the provisions of the law, not disputed Parliament's will to define this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16428	I thank the Secretary of the House. I think it's clearer now, here's an expert who confirmed what I was talking about. We should vote on the Regulatory Commission's report. However, there are several conclusions here, which are, I have noticed three proposals. One proposal is that, according to chronology, as submitted, Mr Milorad Živković's proposal, which says, that, in line with the debate at the 51st session and the demands and questions of the MPs, the DerK is tasked with delivering further information on the work by the end of March 2004. That is, therefore, his proposal, then we have Mrs Ljiljana Milićević's proposal, which says that the state audit is proposing to revise all financial reports since the establishment, therefore, of all years for the State Regulatory Commission. And there is a proposal by Mr. Joza Križanović, which suggests that this state regulatory commission corrects its 2005 financial plan, as far as I could understand Mr. Križanović's proposal. And, you see, here's the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16429	...there is no one's right, and even Parliament when it comes to review, to look beyond regular audits for a special one if they will not pay it, etc. It's a special procedure to search for a special audit. In the future, it can do that in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16430	Are you finished, Mr. Belkić? No more debates, let me now conclude this item on the agenda, we'll vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues. These two conclusions, relating to the possible revision and the conclusion relating to a possible correction of the Agency's financial plan, i.e. the commission is not incompatible and can be declared after the report itself has been declared. However, this conclusion, which suggests that, in line with the debate, Derk is obliged to provide further information on the work of the Derk by the end of March 2004, says that he is not compatible with this statement and must be first made known, after which I propose that we make a statement on the report itself, and after the report that we declare these two proposals for the conclusion proposed by Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Jozo Križanović. I've explained it now. I would have put this report on the table, but then I make this conclusion to the groundless one proposed by 66 Mr. Živković, and I've consulted with the secretary in that direction a little bit, and this is my opinion and my secretary's opinion, so if you can accept it, then I would have done this to my colleagues. Then can we accept this order to go? Please, nice. Prepare to vote. We're voting on Mr. Živković's proposal. So, which says, in line with the debate and demands and questions carried out by the MPs, the Derk is tasked with delivering the updated information on the work of the Derk by the end of March 2004, then repair it in 2005. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 19 for, 16 against, 11 from the FBiH, 8 from RS, Mr Živković's proposal was adopted and I hereby declare further debate and further vote to the groundless. We will, please, make the conclusion clear. It is up to the Regulatory Commission, the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy, to carry out the discussion at today's 51st session and the requests and questions of Members, to provide further information on work, concluded with March 2005, and then to consider it. Mr. Salkić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16431	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, in any case we thank for all the comments given, but regarding this conclusion, we still get written questions on which we need to get or stenograms or something. Look, because there was, I didn't go further into questions, I didn't comment on issues that weren't within our jurisdiction, the issue of trade jurisdiction, the issue of sales in some earlier years and some other issues, which do not affect our jurisdiction that we weren't even formed at that time when it was, and I would ask that we get a document from which we will see what these issues are when it comes to the work report. Look, we're talking about a work report. Look, we're talking about a work report. We'll do it anyway. We're sorry the report didn't go through, but there's no problem in ending it, not until the end of March, but in a far, far shorter time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16432	Mr. Salkić, I thank you. So your report didn't fail, so it's not like it didn't go through. The conclusion is Parliament, I think it is not a good conclusion, but I must respect it and if I voted differently, but I must respect it because it is Parliament's conclusion that you deliver an updated report by March 2005. You can start working immediately, so it is not said here that he refers to both this year and March, but the updated report by the end of March, so that, it is your longest time, so that we can reconsider at the session of this Parliament, in accordance with discussions and discussions and we will, of course, make an effort to do so, and, behold, let me now enter the stenogram, I am in charge of the Skretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly to deliver you with this conclusion a complete stenogram relating to this item of the agenda. 67 Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how we ended the 7th agenda. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. Giving consent to ratification (a) of the European Convention on Extradition and, (b) of the Council of Europe Convention, the Convention on the Washing, Searching for Temporary Subsistence and Subsistence of Income obtained by Criminal Crimes. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? We're closing the debate. Can we vote for both ratifications by one vote? Are you up for it? Does anyone mind? Can you get it? There isn't. I realize we decided to vote for both documents then. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly unanimously with 36 votes in favour, without votes against and abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, gave consent to ratification a) of the European Convention on Extradition, b) of the Council of Europe Convention, the Convention on Washing, Searching, Suspension and confiscation of revenue obtained by criminal acts. Ad.9. The appointment of three members to the joint commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the law amending and supplementing the law on the Central Bank of BiH Postoi the need to comply with the identical text of the law on amendments and additions to the Central Bank Act, since it was adopted in different texts in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Joint Commission proposes: Mrs Fatima Leho, Mr Nikola Špirić and Mrs Ruža Sopta. Says Nikola all three ladies. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone want to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're going to a plea vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, unanimously with 34 votes in favour, with sufficient entity majority, without abstentions and against, formed this committee in the composition that we are proposing and passing, please very briefly to the 10th point of the agenda. Ad.10. Report by the Council of Ministers - Ministry of Defence, on an inspection of the barracks at Han Pijesk. Since we do not have written information, and we have here Mr. Nikola Radovanović's Defence Minister, and this point refers to the information requested by the dom on the basis of the request of Mr. Milorad Živković's MP, so we have two ways, or we ask the minister to tell us a brief thing about the topic 68 until it arrived at the production of this information, since we have chosen to have written information and to receive that information on the production of that information and then at the next session we have it, to get to us to the next session. If we can accept that, I would ask Minister Radovanović to take the floor. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, for the conclusion of the 50th session of the House of Representatives on information on the involvement of military personnel in the concealment of war crimes suspects in the Han Pijesak barracks in the summer of 2004, I would like to say that on the basis of the letter of the High Representative of 16 December O.G. sent to BiH Defence Minister, an investigation into the issue, two joint investigations into systemic weaknesses in the armed forces with a deadline on the delivery of a total report to the High Representative on 14 February. In this regard, the overall investigation is also ongoing, and the defence ministry's intention is to end the investigation within the time limit and to submit information in writing to the Parlametre BiH House of Representatives after the total investigation has been completed. However, given the importance of the topic, the fact that this point is on the agenda and respecting the position of MPs, I consider it mandatory and able to say the following facts at this point. So, the BiH Defence Ministry launched an investigation on the 21st 12th day by issuing orders to the BiH Ministry of Defence inspector-general. The general inspector submitted a report to the defence minister on January 10th, and the inspector-general was unable to confirm with his investigation that military personnel were involved in hiding war crimes suspects in the Han Pijesak barracks in the summer of 2004. On January 20th, a commission was formed by Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister to determine the systemic weaknesses of command and control of the BiH Armed Forces and the task of the commission, along with other elements of the investigation, is to respect the findings and investigations of the inspector general and to include the elements from that investigation, for which additional data have been obtained, to consider and include them in the final report. The commission will submit the report to the defence minister on February 10th and will, therefore, follow a report from the defence ministry to the High Representative on 14 February. The second part of the investigation, which was re-launched on the basis of the letter and the request of the High Representative, launched by the commander of the European forces through a re-exact request that the BiH Ministry of Defence deliver all underground military facilities and complexes in BiH, with a deadline of 23 December. These lists were drawn up and delivered to the European Union Force Command within the requested deadline. There is also one deadline for the delivery of information on what military facilities are needed for military purposes, which can be used from those in the report until 23 December for civilian purposes and which should be sealed. The deadline was January 20th, and the ministry co-operated with entity defence ministries made up this information and delivered it within the deadline. 69 When it comes to military facilities and their status, it is within the deadline for the formation and production of, the establishment of defence committees, entity ministries and forces of the European Union to carry out joint inspections and determine final status. So, to conclude, on 14 February, we will submit the report to the High Representative, deliver a report to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and, after confirmation by the Council of Ministers and provide information to the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16434	I'll thank you if you're done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16435	Yes, if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16436	I thank Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister, Mr Radovanović. We have, therefore, our conclusion. There's no need to open a debate, at least I think, only if he has any questions from you, Minister, while he's the minister of the pay phone. So if anyone wants to ask a question, Minister, go ahead. We've been informed. If no one is answering for a word, then we will when we get this report, based on what the minister told us about. Here, Mr. Živković wants a word. Please, sit down, we must give the MP a question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16437	I want to thank the Secretary of Defense for coming to this session today and giving us information as it is. Namely, I just want to get to know him that our desire to bring this point of the agenda to the session was because it was conflicting information from the High Representative and from the people who had been inspecting Han Pijesak. And we wanted to see in this country who's not telling the truth. That was one reason. I think that this item of the agenda that came today could have been easier to conclude that there was better communication between the Council of Ministers and the Parliament of BiH, where only one sentence would have made it clear that you are not able to give full information today and that we will receive this information on February 14th, thus saving time for each of us to say, and I think that such communication is much better than this way to do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16438	Thank you. Minister, do you have a comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16439	I thank you for this suggestion and I agree that this time was easier, but I think it's useful to hear this too. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2005-02-03-0.u16440	Minister, I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how I declare the final and tenth points, please remain just a minute's attention, even less than a minute, the 51st session of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary House of Representatives, and I would like to inform you that the College has decided to hold the next 52nd session of this House in the period from February 15th to 19th, then we have some very important laws and plan that time. At that time, there will be a session of this house. Thank you very much. The 51st session is over. The seat is closed at 14.35.
