ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17116	Let's get to work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, please take your seats once again, MPs of honored guests, I am opening the 54th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all once again. I welcome the chairman of the Council of Ministers, present ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, embassies in BiH, media representatives, and I welcome all present here in this Chamber. I find that according to the service report at this time there are 35 MPs present, which says that the House of Representatives today has the conditions for full-time work and full-time decision-making. For today they announced their absence and justified their absence, Mr Muhamed Altić, Dušanka Majkić, Abdulah Nakaš and Zlatko Lagumdžija. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as regards the draft agenda you received in the call for a session, I would like to inform you that item 8 of the Joint Commission's report on the effort to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Law on Postages, because the Joint Commission has not completed its work at the Consensus, and at the session of the Extended College this morning we have put the agenda point, the Information Council of Ministers on the Implementation of the Performance Study and this is foreseen as the second item of the agenda of today's session. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I owe another so-called information, as chairman of the House of Representatives. You have been given a decision by the Vio Representative on the replacement of a BiH presidency member. According to the Law on Filling the vacancy of the BiH presidency, Parliament's role is to appoint a member of the Presidency and the initiative is on political parties, and I, of course, said that this morning at the College and the Enlarged College, and I want to say here at the House's session, that I expect such initiatives to come, in order to fill the vacant seat of the BiH presidency as soon as possible. So much for the introduction to the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. If no one answers the word, Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just one question. I'm interested in the information that went into the agenda, and I know the Rules of Procedure so nobody would explain it to me. All I care about is whether that information is just information to know or whether information can be taken into consideration and participation in the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17118	Of course, he's taking part in the debate. You've got the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17119	Eh, if that's the case, then I'm against it, because against every material, even so, regardless of the possibility of a business, that sitting on a chair, I'm getting the material that I'm supposed to be having a discussion about, and especially that kind of value and importance for this country. I think it's either it or it's got some background, not to say it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17120	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17121	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, present guests, I think it is the responsibility of this Parliament to act in accordance with existing laws and to propose today a candidate for a member of the state or a member of the BiH presidency. Because I think it's enough in this country to create crises and affairs and indeterminateness. All parties and all institutions have declared that they want a trip to the European Community, that they want European standards, have signed that, and I see no reason to obstruct that path and leave this country without a presidency for some longer term. That is why I propose that the agenda of this Parliament be the choice of members of the Croatian people's BiH presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17122	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17123	Well, I don't have a chance because I don't have any objections to the agenda or... I'm against being undressed, but I really want to express my protest, and this isn't the first time we've taken down a report for the simple reason that the Commission hasn't met. At least this House of Representatives needs to know why she hasn't met and what the problem is. And we're wasting real time and I really want to get a written report, or this Parliament gets a written report in all cases when outside of a normal period of some period, the Coordination Commission doesn't meet, we simply take off the agenda point without any responsibility from those people who didn't do it. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17124	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate on the agenda and two answers before I declare today's session agenda, on two remarks by Mr. Moranjkić and Mr. Potočnik, on each other, I have already given an answer to this first one, concerning the initiative of Mr. Moranjkić, so we have received the material, it will be the subject of the debate and it is simply because it is the mandatory point of the agenda, and in terms of this second, I have already said that I have called on the political parties to propose candidates to fill the vacant position of the BiH presidency. So far, there are no such initiatives, and since there are no such initiatives, there are no conditions for it to be a part of the agenda. After that, I declare it the agenda, I declare the agenda of today's session, Mr. Potočnik,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17125	Business intervention
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17126	It's business, it's business, it's business, it's
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17127	I ask that this agenda be given to the vote, because it is Parliament's responsibility, it is not only the responsibility of some or some political parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17128	Mr. Potočnik, believe me, I'm one of the people who's always claiming to have a place to fill, a vacant seat for the presidency, and I'd be so happy to support your initiative if the assumptions had been fulfilled. In order to be able to classify that as a point of the agenda, or to suggest, or to propose to the College to propose it as a item of the agenda, I must have an initiative, there must be names to do so. Until this moment, the College and I, as chairman, did not get such initiatives, and this morning when I opened the session, I just brought it up as a notice to all political parties. This is Parliament's responsibility and the responsibility of all the entities involved in the work of this Parliament. Will you lead the debate with me like this, you and I? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17129	Parliament cannot be hostage to any party or party. It is the functioning of the BiH state, and it is Parliament's responsibility to put this on the agenda, of course, if MPs will not accept it, it is a different matter but it is Parliament's responsibility to the BiH man. And let's once start doing what's done and not doing it we'd like to, we wouldn't, we don't have conditions, we have conditions. Let's create conditions and put this point on the agenda. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17130	I agree, Mr. Potočnik. I don't have a candidate's name, Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Martin Raguž is looking for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17131	Mr. President, I think we've discussed this issue and it's a matter of principle. We only got a transfer decision yesterday, like Parliament. So, Mr. Potočnik, in order for everyone to be responsible in this country, we should respect the arguments, so the decision to replace members of the Croatian People's Presidency has not been made by this Parliament. He brought the High Representative, the question is whether, I am speaking precisely now, the question is whether on the basis of sufficiently precise and legally justified competences. I, too, expected Mr Potočnik, that you, as a representative in this House, would protect the integrity of BiH institutions and legitimately elected representatives and encourage the debate, whether or not that kind of decision has agreed on the situation in BiH, and that only then, I should base such a discussion and debate on the issue that you have raised. I think that would be correct. And obviously today you see that no club, no party has been prepared because today we have just received this decision to discuss the issue that you have raised and which will probably not be able to avoid. But you can't say right now that we're here avoiding responsibility and deepening the crisis in the country. I don't think that grade exists at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17132	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Vinko Zorić, president of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17133	I just wanted to tell Mr. Potočnik that I have nothing against not only his own, but any proposal to include some of the points in the agenda, but I do mind that he here says that BiH should not be, however, the hostage of a political party. HDZ is a political party which, fortunately, the Croatian people in BiH and also in some other countries trusts and I don't think HDZ is the first time in this position. There was still a situation when a member of the BiH presidency in the ranks of the Croatian people, and a HDZ member was replaced by the High Representative and HDZ also did not go out with initiatives and did not fill that place and did not have a proposal. So, by the way, we eliminate that someone is a hostage of HDZ, that the state is a hostage of HDZ. The HDZ will think carefully about who, when and how it will propose. If we're late in procedure, it's our political responsibility at that moment, but I don't think we have any basis for including this item on the agenda today because, if we remember how we've done it so far, it's okay what the chairman of this House says we have a name and even a résumé, etc. So we can discuss it a little bit more and make the best possible solution. We are not running away from anything, which is provided for in the procedure, the Rules of Procedure, the laws, and when that is the point of the agenda, we will act the way we are required and the 5 that we judge to behave. Are we going to go out with a candidate, with which candidate, how we will vote on the agenda, how we will vote on the proposed candidates, that is the thing of this club, but I would really ask my colleagues, because we never, in this way, communicate that BiH, this Parliament is the hostage of a political party, especially a political party such as the HDZ, which is the ruling party, which has done a lot in this mandate, so since we are in these parliamentary clubs and I don't think we should move today, when this issue is being discussed when the situation matures and it comes to the agenda, then we will talk a lot about it, but I don't want anyone here or as a member of any political party offends or independent representatives, please refrain from any comments concerning the Croatian Democratic community, and the observation of Mr Potočnik, although he did not say, refers to the Croatian Democratic community.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17134	I thank Mr. Zorić. Mr. Potočnik, replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17135	Yes, I said that the BiH state must not be held hostage by any party. I didn't say it was. But if we act irresponsiblely, we can get into that situation. So what I'm saying is, I'm saying, in the interest of and the good of this country, that we solve problems, not create affairs, that we delay problems and wait for someone else to solve them for us. So you understand as constructive and not destructive.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17136	Please, Mr. Zorić, thank you, Mr. Potočnik. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I repeat again, this morning at a session of the College and afterwards at a session of the Expansive College, I, as chairman of the current so-called man, who chaires this House, fulfilled his Constitution and the law of the prescribed obligation, raised this issue and requested today at the session of this House in the introduction that it is necessary to fill the place urgently, the vacant seat of members of the BiH presidency of the Croatian people. Under the Full Initiative Act, they have political parties, and the initiative is by proposing a name and then obtaining the conditions to discuss it here at the House session and no one will then object to it being a part of the agenda. So, you need a name and I've repeated it this morning at a session here and everyone needs to take over their part of the obligation and their part of the responsibility. But, Mr. Potočnik, if you stay with the proposal I will, of course, I am obliged to put that proposal to the vote. And, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Sead Avdić is asking for a word, please. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17137	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Honorable Presidency and honored guests, I do not understand the procedure in this way and the simple problem that emerged after the High Representative's decision. The High Representative's decision simply asks the House of Representatives to consider it and to conclude what needs to be done in this situation. That's what matters. Which means, the least you can expect from this House is that it has a point of order, a decision by the High Representative and a convention that it stems from all of that. So, don't wait for a proposal so agreeing parties, etc. but simply in line with the political situation that was newly created in BiH, which requires the intervention of the House of Representatives. It's a serious enough situation that we have on the agenda a decision from the High Representative. Whatever it means for this country, without any simple prejudge of anything. Therefore, there must be no candidate proposal for a member of the Bureau, no proposal for a party must be agreed, etc. What does that mean for BiH? What coincidences this decision simply causes for BiH. That's all. I think that my colleague Potočnik had one positive approach in this sense that simply, the newly created situation is considering this House of Representatives, without any prejudge or finished solutions or simply candidates to fill the Bureau members. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17138	Thank you, Mr. Sead Avdić. I'll replicate it for you now. The role of this House is defined by the Law on Filling the vacancy of members of the Presidency and in my opinion, it is not in this House to discuss the decisions of the High Representative, but at this House to conduct the selection of members of the BiH presidency and to complete the law on the completion of the vacancy of a member of the Bureau. And, in that context, I said so in my opinion, and I give that opinion here publicly. But if Mr. Potočnik insists on voting on it, we will, of course, vote on it. I'm closing the debate on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17139	Replicing the chairman, I'm really sorry. I'm not looking for a simple dialogue on this matter, but it's important that the conventions stemming from the High Representative's Decision. She's not a controversial Bonaan authority and a declaration, it's all okay. But it does mean that the conventions arising from the Olduca High Representative, the House of Representatives, should be considered, to establish one methodology to simply resolve the emerging political situation. If you're waiting we're a proposal, then it's really a symptom of the situation to absurdity.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17140	So, you've repeated your discussion that you had before, I've looked back on it, I don't need to look back anymore. 7 I am concluding the debate on the agenda. I call upon you to plead. What's the draft agenda point, Mr. Potočnik, right? Mr. Raguž, intervention, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17141	So, Mr. President, I really need to intervene now, responsibly and be careful in a way, so here we have initiatives of another character and other content, you are going back to just one initiative. I will remind you that I have officially informed you this morning at the College and here I have writtenly prepared to request a debate on all these aspects of which Mr. Sead Avdić spoke. So there are these initiatives too. If we are going to go to this kind of enlargement of the agenda today, then there will be an initiative to expand with the debate on the High Representative's Decision and all the conventions. So now, if you insist on going further into the sort of discussion of the enlargement of the agenda, based on everything we've talked about and spent two hours together this morning, then we have another proposal on the agenda, to supplement the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17142	Thank you. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17143	I don't think this House can discuss the decisions of the High Representative legally or otherwise. We can discuss what Mr Avdić said about the consequences or what it means for BiH to function. Then we need the Berza market, then we need to figure out what time we're gonna do it and who's gonna do it. We can't wait now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17144	Please do not have a dialogue between you, contact me, continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17145	I'm continuing the discussion. I am giving the agenda, a proposal to vote on the election of a new member of the BiH presidency from the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17146	Thank you. Please, Mr. Mladen Potočnik has proposed a agenda item, a selection of members of the BiH presidency from the Croatian people. I repeat, therefore, that, in my opinion, they did not get the procedural conditions because there is no candidate name, but I am obliged to put this on the agenda. Sir, we've concluded the debate, Mr. Belkić. But here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17147	I respect, well, I wanted a little comment to say, of course, by respecting Mr. Avdić's right to propose, both Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Raguž. I want to say, the BiH Party's position will be against both, I want to explain why. Therefore, those who feel that today’s choice is to be chosen, that is, to be decided today, they need to be prepared. Those who don't understand what the controversies are like, let them elaborate it, write what they want to interpret. Therefore, we are against both proposals.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17148	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17149	I'll just say that, I just said that to the media who will pass it on, that we think and that's the conclusion of the HDZ Presidency that we should hold a plenary session or at either one and the other, and one and another home debate on all this, and that's the end, and the conclusion of yesterday's Foreign Affairs Commission session, to discuss these matters in Parliament. Even yesterday, there was a proposal to open a public debate on all this. However, I fully agree that it is easier to solve these things that we also want to talk about at the plenary session and also at the Foreign Affairs Commission and on all other bodies of this Parlamnet when we have the BiH Presidency. And I don't think the HDZ presidency is going that way either. We don't want a crisis in the work of the BiH presidency, though. And, I'd like you to give a 15-minute break so that we can meet, because here I and Mr. Raguž want to send a letter to the College and we would like to have another additional consultation and then after a break you can immediately put Mr. Potočnik's proposal to the vote. We're not looking for a word after the break, we just need to get additional consultations.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17150	That's the club request?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17151	It's a request from the club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17152	Break 15 minutes, proceed at 11:15. Mr. Raguž, if there's any need to wait for the club president after he's asked for it, here's the club president. [[PAUZA]] The club president already said he won't ask, and here you go, Mr. Vinko Zorić. 9 We continue to work. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17153	I apologize for this delay, and here's the television wants to hear some things rather than this one, rather than Parliament. And since it's the media, I had to say something. I, as club president, was looking for a break and here after the break, will present one of our views here that it would be good for my colleague Potočnik to withdraw the proposal of this agenda point. We are also what Mr. Raguž said we were prepared to propose a point of the agenda, that today we discuss the circumstances and the change of the Croatian presidency member, but we also think it would not be good to go beyond the agreed agenda, both with Mr. Potočnik's point and with this point, but as a club president, I have signed and a member of the College of our club, signed a letter to the College to hold a thematic session on this topic and I think it would be good not to discuss it today, and the next session is in 9 days, and I think that by then, the members of the House of Representatives will be prepared to go with parliamentary parties who may possibly have a candidate to fill that place and that it is enough to do what is at the Expanded College this morning, chairing the House said here that here, calling on members of the House to go with initiatives or, more specifically, specifically speaking with names and Potočnik that we would do this work with 54. It's very soon the next session, and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't be doing our job today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17154	I thank Mr. Vinko Zorić for this explanation. Mr. Potočnik, you've been called, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17155	Here, I propose the following, that today this Parliament make a decision to come out at the next session of Parliament, which I think is 21.04. with a candidate for the BiH presidency of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17156	So, you're withdrawing your proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17157	I am transforming it into this, so that today would not be the point of the agenda, but in order to be the conclusion of Parliament, the next session will be adopted, to make a proposal for a new member of the BiH presidency. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17158	Thank you, Mr. Potočnik. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we returned practically to the beginning of what I was talking about as chairman, for the third time, and at the session of the College and at the session of the Extended College and at the beginning of the session of this House, which is therefore that I have fulfilled my constitutional and legal obligations, called on political parties to run, those political parties that have the right to do so, are known by the law who it is, to run as soon as possible and as soon as possible as possible or as soon as possible for a candidate for the BiH presidency member of the Croatian people. This morning, while we held a session of the College, when it could be the next session of the House of Representatives, and it's our assessment that this session according to the calendar will be 21st or 22nd, and we'll agree that the three of us will agree on the obligations that people have, we need to clarify it all, and in that way, I think we could end this debate. I thank you and declare that the agenda is the 54th session as follows, firstly, 1. Journal of the 53rd Session of the House of Representatives, 2. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the request for a feasibility study, 3. Analysis of outstanding parliamentary issues, namely the attitude to parliamentary issues coming from the House of Representatives, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina on an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal for a Law on Foreign Affairs (first reading), 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), 7. Proposal for a Law on Borrowing, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Commission Report on Finance and Budget, 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Excises of BiH with the Report of the Commission on Finance and Budget (legislators: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić), 9. A special report by the Ombudsman on Bosnia and Herzegovina's complaints of parties related to the work of the BiH Council of Ministers - the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with the BiH Ombudsmans, 10. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act (to be prepared by 31.1.2005), 11. Information on export licences issued or imports of arms and military equipment, 12. Report on the Commission's work on finance and budget for 2004, 13. Report from the Research Commission on the establishment of the spending of donor funds, 14. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material and organisational skills of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2004 and the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2004, 15. Report on the work of the Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2004, 11 16. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH. Respect for colleagues and colleagues, we move to the first item of the agenda, that's Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from last, 53rd session of the House of Representatives, I am opening a debate on the record. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. I call upon you to prepare for your plea, we vote on the record. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Something's wrong, we're gonna have to do it again. We repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again. Vote now. Please prepare the charts, the technique please be nice, from now on make sure this works. Prepare your ballot cards. Would you please let us know by lifting the charts who's for the record? Thank you very much. Is there anyone against the record? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously adopted the minutes of the 53rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. Information from the Council of Ministers on the realization of the request for a feasibility study As already explained to you, this item of the agenda is included on the agenda, at the request of the chairman-in-Office of the vieće of Ministers. You got the material on the bench this morning. I call on the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, to take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm glad this information is on the agenda today. There are several reasons why I asked for information. It is first and basic to introduce MEPs to the realization of the conditions of the Physibilities of Studies, and the possibility of moving into a new phase of relations with the EU. The second is that the letter of Enlargement Commissioner Mr. Ren, who sent me 05.04, which refers to our several meetings since the new year, concluded on March 21st and 12th in Sarajevo on March 10th and 11th. So this letter is important in its content because it clearly determines the position of the European Commission according to the realization of the conditions of the Physibility Study, and on the other hand, for the first time, clearly and precisely, gives the scenario of a possible development of events related to the Bosnian-Herzegovina European pathway. The letter was presented to the public in a way that BiH has fulfilled half its obligations, half of it is not, which is absolutely not the contents of this letter. BiH has also fulfilled between 90% and 95% of the study's obligations under this letter. True, it is said that in 8 focused segments we have absolutely seen progress and that in 8 there are certain parts that we have not finished. So it was also one of the reasons why MPs would not be misinformed and get the wrong picture of the Council of Ministers' efforts and entity governments' efforts to realise the physibilities of the study. And, finally, perhaps the most important reason is for us all to realize that BiH really has a chance to get an agreement at the end of May to start negotiations and, as Commissioner Ren said, that somewhere in the late autumn, I hope again that it will be just before and we start those negotiations. It would be a timing if by the end of our term and we agreed on the content of the contract and signed a Stabilisation and Association Treaty, which I think we all need to be the target. I have delivered to you the letter, the original letter from Commissioner Ren, the translation and I have provided you with a review of the remaining obligations that Commissioner Ren mentioned in his letter. We have several government institutions here, and I think that even though you had a short period of time that we could go beyond these remaining obligations, very quickly to make either conclusions about this issue or what was my original intention, to bring a resolution to the House of Representatives. But today at the College, I realized that the procedure for making the resolution was a little more complex, although I don't think that maybe... we couldn't change it. The resolution should in principle oblige all BiH authorities to assist the Council of Ministers to meet all the conditions of the Physibilities of Studies. When it comes to remaining obligations, I must say that in relation to this text you have before you, there is already one number of obligations to be fulfilled. Republika Srpska's assembly at its meeting last week passed several laws relating to the feasibility study. I am firstly referring to the harmonisation and harmonisation of the Law on Refugees and Displaced Persons, with the relevant state law, then adopted the Law on the Single Register of Business Entities in accordance with the Framework Law adopted by this Parliament in June of last year. Other obligations, I think I can safely say that most of our obligations can be completed by the end of April. We will continue today at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, which is scheduled at 2:00 p.m. to have 3-4 commitments to be completed today. What's this about? It is about sublegal acts and actions to serve the implementation of laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly in June of last year. However, it should be openly said that there are three let's say, obligations that have their own political specific weight and for which we will have to find a way to realize them, to accept the reality of BiH but to bring these realities into line with European standards. First of all, there is the Law on 13 ombdusmen, which is in parliamentary procedure, the Law on TV service, the system of pardon, the RT system and the alignment of the Action Plan for the Reform of Police Structures in BiH. I must admit that the European Commission and the High Representative have raised the scale of this issue since receiving the Physibilities Study to this day. The physibilities of the study asked for a consensus on the Action Plan and key elements of police structure reform. Today and as you can see in Commissioner Ren's letter, the European Commission is asking that entity parliaments and state parliament adopt such an action plan as an additional guarantee of the consensus reached. I think when it comes to the ombuds, and when it comes to this, the tv system, we really have a chance to end this parliamentary procedure. The key problem here is that the debate on the content of the law, these proposed laws and discussions, let's say, and in one part and politicising the content of the law, at this point is not the essence of the debate, but rather the debate on whether BiH will continue on the European path or for our reasons and needs we will stop them. So I guess when it comes to the RTS system, we have clear arguments about what the European Commission thinks is a European standard. Insisting in the debate whether it's a European standard and whether there are other European standards, I think it's just delaying our ability to get the approval to start negotiations at the end of May. When it comes to the Law on Abdominals, there is a Council of Europe that has its views and I also think that today we are having big debates about the content of this law, it is simply something that is certainly moving us away from the continuation of the European path. When it comes to international obligations, we have here, as you can see, taking further concrete actions to bring in war crimes suspects. I think that here the European Commission does not actually think, but I do know that it is waiting for NATO's meeting in Vinus and that in the European Commission's many views, if we have progress in this area, it will depend on what NATO foreign ministers in Vinus will conclude when it comes to our request to join the Partnership for Peace. According to my information, the conclusion in Vinus should move within one range of not yet, but there is a visible progress, so a slightly more affirmative version of rejection than it was classically no, which we had in this, Istanbul and Copenhagen. And I suppose it will be enough for the European Commission to accept the views that BiH still has one progress in co-operation with The Hague tribunal. I also think that the commission we formed based on the conclusions of the Peace Implementation Council, which we chaired, the High Representative and myself, on which we together with the representatives of the International Community and the state institutions and entity institutions dealing with security, have managed to improve the internal co-operation procedure towards The Hague tribunal and that we will have this obligation to say fulfilled in a form that there is no obstacle to granting consent. The implementation of the post-accession obligations of the Council of Europe in the area of democratic and human rights, there are several segments. It refers again to the RTS system but also concerns the need to amend and supplement the Election Law. I think that the Commission formed by this Parliament and the Council of Ministers, which should, that the comprehensive proposal 14 amendments and additions to the Election Law, will be sufficient to implement this obligation, with these commitments falling within the scope of democratisation, human rights and implementation of all the resolutions we have adopted, which were obligations, the post-accession obligations of the Council of Europe. In the Council of Ministers through the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have created one system to ensure that these conventions apply and most importantly we have a report on the application of these conventions. When it comes to the Public Administration, implementation of the Action Plan to strengthen the Council of Ministers and ensure the functionality of commissions and so on. We also have the conclusions of the PIC that speak positively about strengthening the Council of Ministers. Surely, the space for the accommodation of new state institutions is a huge problem, but here we are now in a phase to conclude a long-term four-story contract with a state-owned economic operator, in order to solve this issue. Action Plan for Public Administration Reform The European Commission, together with experts and entity governments, has done a functional review of the public administration and we have formed
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17160	May I have your attention, this one, as he presents the chairman of the Council of Ministers, let's hear it with attention, please proceed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17161	We have formed the Office for the Monitoring of this State Coordinator Reform, and the Action Plan is currently working. The improvement of co-ordination between state and entity as the only possible way to achieve this coordination is through the Co-ordination Committee on Economic Development and European Integration, which has regular meetings and there we can only possibly improve the content of the debate on these committees. As far as human rights are concerned, there is already a sign of a harmonised entity law on refugees and displaced persons of the RS, however, the Federation government has not yet paid funds for the Return Fund, which the RS government has. And, of course, the Law of the ombudsmen who are in parliamentary procedure. The Borma against organised crime, with the exception of the Police Reform Action Plan, which should generally be agreed on by the High Representative at the PIC in Brussels at the end of April 26th, 27th and 28th, will be the time when political consensus will be reached with political entities in BiH regarding the Martins Commission's Action Plan for Implementation. Fulfillment of the Ministry of Security goes its course. The law on the Information Society Agency, which is one of these obligations, is already in the process of the Council of Ministers and we will release this law in parliamentary procedure at the next session. 15 When it comes to trade, we are here next to a huge number of measures we have taken, it remains to define the political will of capacity to implement all international contracts. Here it refers to free trade contracts and what is required of us, it is already respected that problems are dealt with in agreement in accordance with international standards. We handle them in accordance with free trade contracts and WTO standards. The proper management and control of the free zones and the implementation of previous decisions on the closure of certain zones, we made a decision to shut down five free zones in BiH a year ago after Minister Doko submitted to the Council of Ministers on Free Zones. The deadline for carrying out this process of shutting down was one year, which is currently ending this month, so that in May we will have clear evidence that five free zones have been shut down, by making another commission actively monitoring the work of active free zones to ensure that the Free Zone Act is not misused and that the business of free zones of this one takes place exclusively by law. Ensure the proper issue and control of the certificate of origin, it is a task which is actively already carried out by the Indirect Taxation Administration. To establish a Plant Health Protection Authority and appoint a Director, we have already established the Plant Health Protection Authority by the Council of Ministers' Decision as a sublegal act, and here today we are going to execute the appointment of the Director. To improve coordination between central and regional veterinary services, this measure has been under the jurisdiction of the Veterinary Office and the Office for Veterinary Use has otherwise been assessed by the European Commission as an office which, in the year and a half since this management led it, has produced impressive results. When it comes to energy, we have an objectively complex problem with the Federation of BiH Parliamentary Assembly, so no Action Plan of the Federation of BiH for the restructuring of the electricity sector has been adopted. I can't tell you exactly what the reasons are, but I don't think they're just technical. To appoint the Board of Directors of the Independent System Operator and Transfer Company today, we have these two appointments at the Council of Ministers' meeting. And continue to work on preparing the strategy, the energy strategy in fact. We formed a working group, six months ago which was to be developed and which had already completed the project task for the energy strategy in BiH and I think we will have the project task at the Council of Minstar by the end of April. Ensure full operationality of the Public Procurement Agency is from 15 conditions, which assume a single economic space, set up an Insurance Agency, ensure the adoption of entity laws in the field of public procurement and insurance. This obligation was made by the RS government at the last session. We still have no record of whether or not the Federation government did. Take further steps, with the aim of establishing the Institute of Standardisation, the Institute of Measurement, etc. We have formed these institutes and are now in the phase of the appointment of directors and executives in these institutions and I assume that by the end of April and this process we will end. Create a unique company register and ensure the adoption of entity laws, for its operationality, means, as I have already said, we have the Framework Law on the Single Business Register of BiH, the government of the RS actually passed this law last week, the rest is to do so by the Federation. To adopt the Law on the Public Television System and the Public Television Service Act, with full respect for European standards and the Dayton Paris Agreement, is the obligation we have already spoken about 16, the obligation of the Parliamentary Assembly and to start restructuring the internal structure of the PBS, that is the obligation of the PBS Ministry of Transport and Communication, is intensively working with the leadership of the PBS to start these activities. And that would be all that's left to do with the physibilities of the study. I have sent a letter before this session and you received it today, and Prime Minister Bukelović and Prime Minister Hadžipašić, where I have made clear to them what obligations they should carry out. And what I would ultimately like as a proposal to the House of Representatives is that if we can't reach a resolution, we still make one conclusion that we will clearly and precisely define that our obligations from the Physibility Study are done and clearly and this one, we are determined to accept this scenario as presented by Commissioner Ren in his letter, the scenario which BiH means in May will get the consent to the negotiations and start negotiations early in the autumn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17162	I thank Prime Minister Terzić. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Sead Avdić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17163	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected presidency, respected members of the Council of Ministers, encourages me to say the presentation of Mr. Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and encourages that there will be an acceleration I would say on the way to the European integration of the BiH state. This is indicated by all the meetings, especially international ones attended by representatives of the BiH Parliament. In this context, objectively this is good that an inventory was made before May, what remains to be done in order to start Stabilisation and Association negotiations, i.e. the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. What worries me is two points from this, remaining obligations. One point is the fight against crime and corruption, police reform, etc. relying on one PRSP report for 2004, in 2004, all measures and decisions and laws that were to be adopted in order to combat corruption, crime, etc. none of the obligations have been made. I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman, so the PRSP program he's drawn up, in his program there's a fight against corruption and crime and everything else, no measure has been taken. So you should take a look, a little simple to bring all these documents together in terms of real expectations of dynamics, which is what Mr. Chairman was talking about. It's one fact, another fact that it's quite simple to recognize in public, layoff, I would say the fundamental political consensus on police reform. And, in that context, these signatures here that are given, of Bogami, some are subject to questions, in terms of political will, to simply complete the process of police reform, normally, according to international standards and according to the Police Reform Commission. In this sense, it is simply necessary to achieve a political consensus on this again and to complete this most serious job in terms of police reform and what the material says, and what I find really 17 ambitious and what I can problem, which is to transfer all legislative and budgetary competences to the state level, ensure their application in regional areas in order to achieve effective police, etc. Objectively, these are serious tasks, and in this context, it is really looking at at least one more time to re-examine the political will of the parliamentary majority in terms of these steps spoken here and another point, which is, the strategy of BiH's energy development. All honors, every honour of informing and the Law on the Information of BH society but objectively, entities are already making as many and certain steps in the development of the energy sector as possible. And in that context, I would say, this strategy can be a document that will only legalize the existing situation, which would not be good. It is therefore necessary to speed up the pace to allow the entities to accept this strategy in terms of behaviour and restructuring of the electric scanner and simple strategies for the development of the energy sector in BiH. So that would be me, these two points that I've been dealing with, can be simply serious brakes on this optimistic time dynamic that the Prime Minister or the chairman of the Council of Ministers has given us, and in this context, I am still expressing the Council of Ministers for the sake of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17164	Thank you. Next, Mr. Križanović Jozo was reported for the discussion. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17165	I thank Mr. Chairman, I would also like to welcome the Council of Ministers' initiative to inform this House today about the progress in meeting the conditions of BiH's feasibility study. However, I was one of those who felt that this information should be better prepared and organised for the next session, where this House would be properly informed of the real problems in the stasis that BiH has in meeting these conditions for the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. A review of the remaining commitments shows there are 27 other significant commitments before BiH, which are to be particularly appreciated in the letter by Mr Ren. Of these 27 measures, only three refer to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. As Mr. Chairman has rightly stated. The question now arises why such an oral presentation was needed hastily, without written information on the problems of meeting BiH's obligations in terms of the feasibility of the study. I assume, therefore, that our chairman of the Council of Ministers has been very responsible for this because I suppose he has serious problems in the realization of these measures. The question now arises what the Parliamentary Assembly 18 can do to help all BiH institutions to meet this and not lose a step in joining the EU. So, if a verbal declaration of the Parliamentary Assembly is required, I think there are no problems. We have in favour of this material a statement by all parliamentary party presidents signed a year ago that they will unreservedly support all reforms that BiH is approaching the EU. The question arises as to what is the Council of Ministers' assessment of whether Parliament has this sensitivity in this regard and whether it is responsible in time for carrying out all its tasks when it comes to these measures. I still think it's something else, which we didn't get here today, which is that we specifically point out what these difficulties are not only with the Council of Ministers but also with the entity governments and what Parliament is expected of this Parliament? What are these problems, are they procedural, are they personal, or are they essential? I'm afraid that this is one important issue today we're going to have a very superficial discussion at the level of saying some verbal observations without making the essence of the problem, and no matter what today, here's no reason not to bring the resolution, no procedural reason to bring the resolution today, but there's a question of what we're accomplishing with it. Part of me or the form of a resolution, here we have the signature of 12 political party presidents who signed over a year ago and made a commitment to encourage through their MPs in this House in this Parliamentary Assembly and to be very serious about the obligations that lie ahead of BiH. So, in this sense, I will support any conclusion or any resolution, but I am disappointed with the way, at the speed and surface of the presentations, that we today have not understood the essence of the problem why BiH is late in these outlined reforms in meeting the obligations set out in this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17166	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. The rieč has Mr. Belkić. Have Mr. Milorad Živković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17167	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the BiH Party will do everything to support the efforts of those who are willing to work towards the realization of these requirements and the Performance Studies. In the end, we also signed this statement Mr. Križanović is talking about. However, we also do it because of our programming, because we simply believe that the protection of human rights, the future of economic, human security, prosperity, can only offer a regulated state with minimal functions, structures, instruments, etc., which, unfortunately, BiH does not have at the moment. So we will support all the efforts of those who are willing to try to fulfill what is up to Parliament and, of course, lobby and so to say, at other levels where political influence exists from each party and to make a contribution there in some way. 19 However, I want to point out that we are trying to find a way out of a few situations that are obvious and that we should not run away from. So, for me and for us, problems are, above all, in the conceptual non-agreement over the jurisdiction of the state and entities. So very often and almost regularly, every issue is discussed, whether it's an entity's business or whether it's a state's business. So, that's a fact and we have to face this situation and in my opinion, the output is in definition and finally, the end conditions are not only conditions that, that, but also content, European standards. So the output is one correct way to measure and compare what a European standard is and when we will know who to do this job in some way. I think it's an exit, and of course, we don't need to run away from the fact that in different ways we interpret European standards and have different visions and then come into a closed circle. So we have to simply open up a proper dialogue, a principled dialogue that we would then constantly transfer to concrete cases and avoid, in my opinion, unnecessary opposition and feeling that we are protecting certain specific entity interests, national interests, etc. if we are all set for European standards, then we need to find them and constantly every project to say that it is in line with those standards which are one of the conditions so that the law is also adopted by European standards, and so is our commitment. And that opens this question with which we often meet. I really want to say this directly, is who he is and how he negotiates. If there's a dilemma or the fact that it's an entity business, it needs to be transferred to the states in some way now. Every time we hear when we're lucky that one of the proposings follows the law through committees, etc. Which is very rare to hear is consistent with entity governments. The matter is consistent with entity governments. Then we come to the working bodies or committees of Parliament and members of committees, MPs say not the congregations have declared that, we need to check whether the congregations, primarily the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, have taken that position. So we have to agree, or determine, to check what the Constitution says, in what way it should be, but not to abuse that we open up the practice for every legal project that it is a matter of checking, etc. There are clear things that are matters of the state. So, but for those things that are certain to be entityal, we must clearly identify ourselves and interpret in accordance with the Constitution how it is transferred to the state level. And for 100 times I call on the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which, of course, has a handicap at the moment that it does not work, needs to be put into office as soon as possible, constantly keeps the coordination procedure open. The continued open coordination procedure, which is constitutional authority and where we disagree, is coordinated with the entity authorities of the solution. And in the end, I'm not very happy, no matter how much I understand that some legal projects, if they hadn't launched them internationally to say so by the institutions and forces, maybe we wouldn't have started them and understood the need for these mixed bodies, professional and expert assistance to the international community, etc. But lobbying and clarifying those laws must be our job, our business. So the public and citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina need to assure us of the correctness and faith in these projects, not to allow the presentation of police reform, Mr. Čolak to voditi Eždaun and his associates, etc. So you believe in police reform and you and your ministry people should, in my opinion, activate and convince the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina that it is beneficial for everyone and that it is not against anyone, or it is a matter of reform in the area of finance that should be done by Mrs. Ljerka, education Mr. Halilović and so on and so on. So we have to exercise faith in these projects and transfer to reality, and I think we're going to create a much more positive atmosphere that would guarantee the passing of some projects. So here to conclude, the BiH Party will of course support, but has run for some of the issues. We're going to make an effort to solve these things, but we can't get away from them if they're in some way an obstacle to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17168	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. The next speaker is Mr. Milorad Živković. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17169	Gentlemen, I've been thinking about how this information came to Parliament and the reason is why it was delivered to the College yesterday, and today we have as a point of the agenda, and I think I have found the answer that this is a transfer of responsibility that has been happening a lot lately with a crisis that is evident in the Council of Ministers at the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliament and constantly looking for and in the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina what should have ended in the Council of Ministers. That this is how this report, which is written here, is practically from 20 and something should do the executive rule of Bosnia and Herzegovina from the state to the entity, and only three things, the Parliament of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that responsibility for reforms that are due to be carried out by the executive authority, and that part of the responsibility is surely borne by this Parliament, but also by those who are to say the position in this House, because even though in this letter put here, the SNSD has put its signature, that is, its president and we stand firmly behind the European path and we have a political consensus on this, we cannot keep this unsustainable situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina constantly using someone else, and on behalf of us. Namely, very often, and it is a post-op, very often SDS and SDA that SNSD has raised more hands for the law than they have done, comes into one situation that we burn reformers, and they are whaled with these feathers. And it happens all the time, and I think it's time that the position in this parliament takes responsibility, to agree with the Council of Ministers, and then to call on this letter signed by the SNSD among other things. I also said when there were stories about that platform that the fact that there was no political consensus on very important issues. We have a situation that some things that are very important, such as the Law on Higher Education, such as the Law on Census, etc. etc. They either put themselves aside, or they put themselves in the carpet just because there's no consensus on the situation. I also want to say that everyone here is clear, it is clear to all of us in Bosnia and Herzegovina that until the international obligation is fulfilled, or number one of these other obligations can and can be fulfilled, we will not be admitted to a partnership for peace, nor to NATO, 21 and probably not in the EU, and it should be clear to all of us that we are not bringing reform back to application. Police reform, defence reform, reforms that this country is doing with a story that we only have one day to bring it to the point that, here I'm going to tell you we have five areas of indirect taxation. We've made a reform. We have four economic regions that are mentioned in Bosnia and Herzegovina and we're proposed nine or eleven, I don't know exactly police stations. How it will work in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Who's going to pay a tax to, who's going to sue someone for economic crime, etc., and I'm going to finally mention that letter to you that when we sign, we write here with respect in the constitutional order. Gentlemen, when the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina is changed, other reforms may be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17170	I thank Mr. Živković. The word is Mr. Bešlagić. Have Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović prepare. And I'm sorry. We have a small replica. Here you go, Mr. Novaković. I didn't see it. I'm looking at what the secretary wrote here. You have it written down. Mr. Kunić, you're on paper here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17171	I have a replica. Namely, I cannot accept Mr. Živković's view that the position has responsibility, only responsibility for reforms. Of course it's totally wrong. As far as the position is concerned, it is clear that both I and SDS will naturally bear the burden of reform and it is not disputed. But not reforms aimed at joining the EU, Euro-Atlantic integration is just a matter of position. So this is a much more serious problem and it is a matter of everyone here, not only here in this House, but also of all parliaments and of all participants in both the government and the opposition, but of all Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17172	Thank you. This is now the answer to the replica I would say yes. Well, here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17173	Namely, I didn't say you had a responsibility, we all have a responsibility. I said you should take responsibility, because it's obvious that responsibility is on all of us, and you keep putting that hot cake in the hands of the opposition, and on the other hand, it's true that you're giggling with the feathers of the reformer in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17174	Okay. Thank you. I pray we move on with the debate. Correcting the wrong, distorting the right quote, etc. It won't take us. 22 Mrs. Azra Hadžiahmetović, let Mr. Petar Kunić be prepared. Yes, I apologize, Mr. Bešlagić, and then Mrs. Hadžiahemtović, then Mr. Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17175	Dear colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I will move with one view that, by my deep conviction, we do not need any declaration, because we have a statement that is binding, I would say everything as long as we are here and I think this statement is sufficient and as a guarantee that all political parties, without differences in opposition or position, will carry out their task in what we have signed, which is a wish and to join a partnership for peace and European integration. What I wanted to point out, I, this is my one, I would say the impression that we can meet everything, but if we don't meet the first point, and that means international obligations and predict the logic of the concreteisation of the action on bringing in war crimes suspects to this parliament, this Council of Ministers, we will never enter the EU. This is what I'm saying for one space because it says here – responsible institutions, please allow me, I was happy here to be here, that there are no police forces by entities here, because this item against the organization has defined these things. And let me just put in a responsibility here that she belongs until this FS7 is realized here to commit to the police force of the entity. We cannot assume that the Ministry of Justice, that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will carry out the task without support today at the moment of the entity's interior ministries and Brcko district. So please, just so you know, I'm proposing that this part of being in charge here and this part, because I don't want anyone calling the SIP and calling all the other departments state, and you know who's supposed to do that part of the job. Here I think it's my suggestion that this program might look more realistic than this kind of request.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17176	I thank Mr. Selim Bešlagić. Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Have Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17177	I thank the chairman. Dear Members of the College, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will, I will not talk about these individual points where we have received a report on the degree of execution and the obligations remaining. But I want to look somehow at Mr. Terzić, because Mr. Vens has also addressed him, but all my discussion needs, among other things, to bring us all to the field of responsibility or shared responsibilities, not only present here in this room, so members of the Council of Ministers and this parliamentary 23 parliaments, but also all those responsible for carrying out certain obligations that are mentioned here. Why I'm saying this, or why I especially want to apostrophe at this point. Correct me, I know that Mr. Topčagić and of course Mr. Terzić know very well with the completion of the physibilities of the study we get the right to start negotiations on the association and accession agreement. So start negotiations. Once we have completed and signed the agreement, there is a ratification procedure in 25 parliaments, EU member states in the European Parliament and the parliament of the Member State, i.e. a potential candidate for EU membership. When we win, when all these procedures are completed, we gain candidate status which opens the door for us to access funds or pre-accession European Commission funds for all those reforms that the country has undertaken, or all those commitments it has made through an agreement, i.e. a transitional period in the period of accession to EU membership. I want to warn you of the following. In 2006, the mid-term budget for the EU was adopted for a six-year period, which is the usual budgetary procedure and is already being prepared for the next medium-term budget in the European Commission since 2005. So we have very little time. I want to warn you of the following. If we are not calculated as a potential candidate in the next medium term, we cannot count on candidate status before 2013, i.e. everything the country achieves as a potential candidate, i.e. as a candidate for EU membership, and as regards those financial funds and pre-accession funds, etc. This, this alone says that never a higher price has been brought closer to a country's EU membership as it is now. So the most expensive of all these countries since '57. the years since the EU was created, or the European Economic Community to date that have been entering and approaching membership, this integration has never been the price of approaching the EU as it is now. And not just that. It's never been higher or the price of staying out of integration. And we are struck by this fate that we are just paying a high price, whether we are to approach, by what dynamics or by staying out of European integration. This is exactly why I want to warn the next one. The responsibility of all entities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, because these conditions are not solely responsible for the Council of Ministers, or only the Parliamentary Assembly, or just some parties, etc. I don't speak here as a member of any political option, or anyone, but as a Bosnian and a Herzegovian. I want to mention that it's high time we changed something radical in our way of working. If at all, if we can get to. I personally appreciate that the deadlines are too optimistic, i.e. very short, and that it is high time that the letter was sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that it is quite understandable to one address and that this parliament should finally begin to call out who the person stopping the process is. Whether it is an entity government, a state-owned institution, a Parliament, etc., but to know exactly who it is who will be responsible for all the consequences of which, just briefly, we are paying the price either, a high price due to delays, or a distance from all these procedures that follow in the next medium term. And yet another suggestion, although it has been mentioned several times, given that it is a short time, this parliament really did not seem to me to be a brake for any reform road for 24 each of the legal acts that falls within this round of conditions, if all of these 16 conditions are not yet completed, place an EU standard stamp, or that it meets European standards, that we are not exhausting ourselves with stories whether the ethnic parliaments have given consent to the transfer of jurisdiction or not, that we are not wasting time, because now is the only time factor for us to move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17178	I thank you, too. Mr. Kunić Petar and we're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17179	Yes, as it is a very important issue on a very important matter in which we are mostly in agreement with European integration as soon as possible. So that's a common goal. I'm presupposing a political goal, because the question is how do these certain conditions that are very sensitive to how to meet them? Can we use the work method so far to meet these conditions? In my opinion, we can't. We'll have to respect each other's interests more. Today, an action plan for reforming police structures has been mentioned. There is a very correct, very correct, and otherwise very correctly giving statements about this very sensitive issue, a very sensitive question that according to the current proposed model of replacing the thesis, so one model is proposed, this model is the only alternative, so you can only choose that alternative, there is no other model. Or replacing thesis, other models are anti-European, they don't fit European standards. I mean, it's a demagogue I hear almost every day, because it's a pure classic demagogy, it's a classic demagogy. There are over 20-30 models of police structures in Europe and all these organisations are in line with European standards. No one will tell me, Mr. Martins or anyone else, that the model of the organisation of political structures in Germany is not in line with European standards. Or won't the High Representative say, please it's your thing, you have to achieve a consensus, and then ultimario, that's the variant you can choose, otherwise you won't meet the conditions for European integration, for a feasibility study, etc. I don't think that way, that kind of approach scares me, it won't bear fruit. And that's why we are here, in Parliament, to look at objective circumstances as possible at a given moment, what is possible, what is interest and entity, of course, what is the interest of the entity. What are the interests of entities they will not give up? Of course, that Parliament has that in mind and certainly, if it has that in mind, if it respects the interests that we will come to a solution sooner, so-called. a consensus that will not be one acceptance of an alternative, but will be an expression of compromise in Parliament and other executive structures, i.e. Council of Ministers and entity governments. Therefore, we can talk about democratic processes, give one alternative and say this is a democratic principle as if we fell out of a tree yesterday, we do not know the alternative solutions, the organisation of European police, etc. I mean, it's really already gotten declassified in these places. Secondly, what I would like to say about the political parties' statement, Živković read but did not highlight some elements -- a statement confirming their readiness to 25 political consensus and further democratisation of BH in the constitutional order of joining the EU and a partnership for peace. Within constitutional order! So, don't let us have substitutes tomorrow that some things move outside the constitutional order and blame one side that won't accept. That fact scares me. So we move within the framework of the Constitution, we can fulfill all the conditions required of this Parliament and the other structures and move within the constitutional order, the Constitution. So it's thought of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, I'm absolutely against the transfer of one variant, one model to some obligation. It is not compatible with any democratic standards, not to mention European, European standards. Of course, it is necessary to reform and police structures and to make certain certain things. But, please, there is another process in Bosnia and Herzegovina that is different from in European countries. For example, Germany is a federal state that, at the Federation level, has 10 percent of the government-related jobs. Everything remains in the provinces, or municipalities. Let's take a Swiss example, etc. Let's take some other examples where everything in federal states reaches up to 15 percent of state-level jobs, remains at federal level. You will agree that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a federal state and that we must think in this direction. So, ignore, in this situation, we cannot ignore Bosnia and Herzegovina's political structure. This is the starting point, and compromises should be sought in this respect, and no use of the favor of a part of the international community to impose certain solutions. That's not good. It's not good for the future of this country. That's not good for now. So in that direction, I think we should think very, very positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17180	Thank you. We still have Mrs. Seada Palavrić. It's a replica, or a discussion. Afterwards, Mr. Filip Andrić has been no longer reported. Please, let's get this over with. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17181	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will begin my discussion with this, in fact with one protest over the fact that Professor Kunić and some others, regardless of what the Constitution says, insists that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a complex state, that Bosnia and Herzegovina is a federal state, I accept that we agree and write in the Constitution what it really is. For now, it doesn't say it, and we can't talk, and I'm asking that we don't talk like that. A statement signed by the parties indeed says that within the framework, they will provide their assistance for Bosnia and Herzegovina's entry into Euro-Atlantic integration by respecting the constitution of the order. However, anyone who has put a signature on this paper, and really wants Bosnia and Herzegovina and its citizens to be taken into Euro-Atlantic integration, would have to be aware of the constitutional order of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that what it says in the Constitution as the jurisdiction of the state is not enough for Europe and European standards for Bosnia and Herzegovina 26 to be a candidate for those associations. Despite such a fact, in addition to such constitutional order, we have the possibility in the constitutional order that the competencies that are now in the hands of the entities, and that Bosnia and Herzegovina is needed to meet the requirements for Euro-Atlantic integration, we transfer them to the state. What I think has not been resolved is the fact that the Council of Ministers, nor the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina have found ways to resolve the transfer of competence with entities where the transfer is needed. So, I ask these two institutions to find a path that will be decoded and when it comes to the Constitutional Commission of any law no one will be able to say this jurisdiction has been passed on, the entity disagreed and we will not be wasting our strength on it. When it comes to the examples of police reform and here are the now complex states, I'm going to tell you that last week we were in Switzerland, I think that's one of the countries that has the largest decentralisation, there are 26 cantons, and in law enforcement at canton level, there are other ordinary things, petty crime, and all the big things that can no longer be solved at the level of a single country, but they have to be resolved among the states internationally are transferred to the state level. In one of Switzerland. And let's not fool ourselves that we can act as one Germany, who has police in the provinces, or as someone who has already arranged the state. Let's set up a state, get into integration, and then we'll talk about greater decentralisation, if it's functional then. As far as Bosnia and Herzegovina's budget is concerned, it is the EU and the fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not in the 2007 and 2014 budget, according to the informal information that came to me from the international community that is opposed to Bosnia and Herzegovina being found there. And I want you to make sure that's true, if it is to do what has to be done to meet us in the budget for that period. In Mr Ren's letter, which we do not forget is not Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, but we have come to the enlargement stage, he is EU Enlargement Commissioner, at the first point when it comes to international obligations and co-operation with The Hague tribunal, I would like to draw your attention to the following. In addition to everything that we are expected to do to bring war crimes indictees to The Hague tribunal, or the Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in addition to the necessary co-operation with neighbouring countries where war crimes indictees have possibly been hiding, a need has emerged in recent months for a trilateral contract in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is, in fact, that some war crimes indictees have dual citizenship, according to the constitutions of the countries cannot be extradited to neighbouring countries, and we have the necessary need for war crimes to be tried where war crimes have been committed. So, I ask you to do everything possible to ensure that Europe takes care of this problem politically, because without such a contract, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not see that they will have great results. Lastly, it also mentions a request for further efforts to implement the Council of Europe's accompanying criteria. I remind myself of the Ombudsman Act and remind the Council of the Ministers that yesterday on the Constitutional Commission's committee, they could hear that again the proposed law was not in line with the entities when it comes to the transfer of part of jurisdiction, in fact, the refusal of entities from jurisdiction to have entity ombucmanies. I believe that the Council of Ministers must resolve this problem and that this transfer of jurisdiction no longer comes before us as an obstacle to many laws. We haven't talked about the Higher Education Act in at least 27 years. And also the Law on the Public TV System must finally come before us and we must be told if the amendments are in line with European standards, if they are not, that they are not and why they are not, because we have opposing sides. Amendment applicants claim that these are European standards. The European Commission claims not to. I ask the Council of Ministers, not to be a judge, but to tell us what European standards are in this field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17182	Mr. Kunić, the replica, so Mr. Zorić the replica, right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17183	I'm sorry to have to answer to the distinguished Mrs. Seada, but I've had 100 round tables and certain features of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina held for me, I don't know where he's not from Bugojna, Banja Luka, Sarajevo. No one has ever said that this is not a Federation state, that it is not according to its political arrangement of the Federations. All I hear is from you. This one, perhaps, would have made a significant contribution if you had been on those round tables. Maybe you could distract us to consider a theoretical model like this. But there's no dilemma. It's a federal state, and that fact has to be respected. And as for Švajcarska, I don't know when you were, and I was 6-7 months ago, in Switzerland, you had a state border service on police structures of cantons, different uniforms, etc. etc. So, I don't know if those things have centralized so much in the meantime, I really don't know. But I know they had a completely different situation. So nobody should touch this. So, my discussion at best, we need to find solutions, but the solutions we have to make concessions for everyone, you can't make a concession out of one. You're asking one player to keep hitting everyone on their feet. That's almost impossible. Something's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17184	Mr. Vinko Zorići, please. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17185	It is my replica, i.e. not agreeing to Mrs. Palavrić when she mentioned it, i.e. she referred to Mr. Kunić's exposure, and she said let Germany go and I don't know who else, they are rich. I do not agree that we should not be as well organized as other European countries, regardless of our poorness. In fact, I don't think that we're going to be rich much longer because we have a bad internal arrangement in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that all problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether internal or external, stem from bad regulation. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm also going to look back on the last sentence of my colleague Kunić, it's true from the Serbian people, I'm going to say it in my head asking for concessions, but Croatian is no longer required. If you thought you weren't going to get in line, then you were wrong when you didn't side with the constitution and the law and what it says in the Constitution. The Constitution does not say that we will sometimes be through some half-laws equal, but that we should always be equal. And it's not even if we have one republic, and 28 we don't have three republics. It's not equal if someone has their own TV, someone doesn't. It's not equal if someone has a university, and someone doesn't, etc. We can give as many examples as we want. So one nation is not asking for concessions. It's considered an ad act issue. And that's not good, that's not good for the one, for that Sead yesterday tells me we're not the strongest, maybe we're the most numerous. The hands are always numbered, and I think it's the one who has the most hands to make it very easy for those with little hands, regardless of the strength of the arguments. It doesn't matter. Me and my three four colleagues can do as much as we want to be right, but if six people vote against us they've voted us and they're right. So I get, my sense of replica was a disagreement that we have to centralize and destroy everything, so that we should get rich. No, we need to solve Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal arrangements here on the basis. Dejton stopped the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I don't think it's the most just and everyone says they're not happy with it. Let's start from the assumption that no one is satisfied and let's rebuild. What's that? We're taking care of the police problem now. Why wouldn't the police be tied to Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal arrangements? Many are not satisfied with the four levels, but I am not pleased to say that, often it is mentioned that Hrvat are for the third entity. And no one's saying, it's just once the Lagumdžija seems to me bold to say that we have three entities. It is the first district of Brcko and the Federation as well as Republika Srpska. But it obviously suits someone. It doesn't work for me. Here. When I tell my colleagues on the committee that I think that federal television is mostly Bosniak, it's not. So let's turn it off, or maybe it's Serbian. If you don't mind, I suggest we shut it down. And there's a space for making channels in Croatian, that is, we have a BH service, and we have a big problem here that we can't access all these integrations because we haven't solved the TV system. Or, help me BPS, we no longer have abbreviations in Croatian. Please PBS, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17186	Mr. Novaković's replica. Please just for a little while, let's go with the discussions. We've got another one on file.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17187	I'll be the chairperson very shortly. I don't want to comment on some of Mr. Zorić's attitudes here, but I have to because I don't know what we Serbs thought would happen when we didn't react and when we were supposed to react. Mr. Zorić, no one asked us about the Washington deal. We didn't participate in the Washington Agreement when it decided what, unfortunately now those who signed it are not satisfied. But don't do that to us, we don't have anything. So we didn't affect that part of the agreement because, please, I don't interpret what Mr. Kunić said, but I mean that then the discussion must be correct for us. 29 Indeed, if anyone gave concessions against the signed Dayton Agreement, then it is us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17188	Mr. Filip Andrić. Here's the discussion, and we're closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17189	I thank Mr. Chairman, here I am extremely pleased that the Prime Minister has returned to the O.R. before I have received my word, so that he may hear what I am about to say, and I will begin with this statement that is in favor of the signature and president of the HDZ, Mr. Bariša Čolak, and I am free here on behalf of the Kluma HDZ-democracy to say that we are fully behind this signature and are ready to fully implement this. But we also ask the Council of Ministers, or you as the most responsible person in the Council of Ministers, to respect what is in this statement, and the other side to respect, I will refer here most to the condition of 16, i.e. The Law on the Public TV System where it is said that European standards and the Dayton Agreement are fully respected in the law being prepared. I hope that this obliges you and that you will finally have a third chance to install European standards in the laws you have proposed to Parliament and that here you are in no way moving beyond the commission, not to transfer responsibility to Parliament as if it had not met something. I am really concerned and therefore with one information, i.e. the fact, and therefore my question to you is really interested in who was on behalf of Bosnia and Herzegovina in a delegation that was at the meeting of the Board of the Peace Implementation Board, when I see here a finding that concerns are being expressed at that meeting because of the amendments tabled at the draft law on the TV system. The amendment proposed by HDZ. My signature also stands on these amendments, as far as I know in that amendment, we have asked the Council of Ministers to ensure the implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights in that law. I really don't understand why it is not in line with European standards and what this has to do with the concerns of such amendments. Either what my previous Mr. Kunić was saying, or it is thought that it is really dangerous for Bosnia and Herzegovina to think any different from what is served from the one I don't even know of some circles here in Parliament. Then what are we doing here? Then the constitution should be amended to say that the BiH Parliament, or parliamentarians, do not have the right to invest amendments, have no right to their own opinion. They have the right to just hold their hand in the air when someone needs it and that's the purpose of this Parliament. Are we really going that way, is that a European standard that's being asked of us here? And I really want to appeal once again, understand this as well as to your commitment, I support point 16. means where you are required to fully integrate European standards into the Law on the Public TV System. Put them in, you won't have any problems, I hope neither on the commission, nor with the HDZ amendments, nor anyone else. When she elaborated on the police, kolegica Palavrić might have looked back on this point and mentioned 30 here as a European experience and how this issue was arranged in Switzerland. It could have served us as an experience that more handsomely some dilemmas are prevailing here, and indeed when we talk about certain things, then it would have been good to end up being principled, so don't call on some solutions just when they're right for us, and otherwise ignore or close your eyes in front of them and skip them like they don't exist. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here is a call to the Council of Ministers, it has for the third time the opportunity to finally create a Law on the Public TV System with integrated European standards and I think there will be no problem in this case with the HDZ amendments or here in Parliament, nor will there be problems with the Board of Directors for the Implementation of Peace with our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17190	You'll get your word. You'll get the word, just wait for another discussion we have, you'll get the word right away. So you'll answer all the questions. You'll get your word. If you want right now, I'll give you my word right now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17191	So just answer the question that doesn't apply to the information I filed. The Peace Implementation Council has regular meetings. The Peace Implementation Council calls for officials from Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of the agenda set out earlier. The Peace Implementation Council shall meet with representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina's authorities who call for a closed meeting of the Peace Implementation Council members. So when you ask that question you have to have, you know all these.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17192	Please don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17193	It depends sometimes on the directors, depending on the form they meet. And so they have a closed meeting where they discuss the communiqué. And the commies are being written in a closed meeting and representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina authorities are not taking part in it. Therefore, it is an answer to the question of who participated and who allowed such a finding to be found in the communiqué. So they sit down and write their own communicators, and we file reports on the agenda. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17194	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask that the debate be brought to an end. Of course, I've announced the debate three times already here. I have a new application every time. I'd like to make sure that once the conclusion is announced, yes, but I won't jump to the point. Mr. Vinko Zorić is looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17195	I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17196	Thank you. Mrs. Ruža Sopta asked for it. Very briefly, please, Mrs. Sopta, if you can. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17197	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, although I do believe I have the right to apply as long as the discussion takes place, because the need may arise from one discussion. I listened carefully to all the debaters, all the people who discussed this subject, and almost everyone I could underline that everyone was behind this statement signed by political leaders. Almost every discussion was made that constitutional changes were necessary, that someone meant them, that someone didn't mean them, because they didn't happen. That's a fact. I keep from, as far as I've been able to read for this time, that about the unfinished obligations are somewhere two for this Parliament. But on those two, she would put a questionnaire, because they were brought in, brought Parliament into some time-constraint. These are the two laws which, truth be told, are one and more more days on the wallpaper, which have been brought back to the Council of Ministers, and were expected by the Council of Ministers to implement what has been warned through this Parliament's discussion. Neither of them happened. Again, we've been brought into the timeline with explanations and discussions here that a time seal has come, that we have to do it now just like that and no other way at all. I would support a part of Mr Belkić's discussion which said very clearly what was just a discussion every time on almost every commission in which I, whether it was our authority, whether it was built in, whether it was the Council of Ministers' position on the matter, did not take place. Every time I have some dilemmas that are – what are standards, what are European standards? So far, I thought I knew what European standards were. Now they say, European standards are what the European Commission says. Please, nice. I disagree with such definitions of European standards. To me, the European standard reflects the majority of European reality. In one way, the simplest definition if you told her. 32 Mr. Kunić says and has the basis to state constitutional definitions of the entity's interest. There are, I think, a little bit more than the definition of the right of the people that we can't all step aside from, so be it the interest of one or the other or the third people. And what I believe is that it is not fair to bring us into such a position that this Parliament is now being put to some point you are guilty if these conditions are not met, because you have not passed the law we give you – take it or leave it under such conditions. I don't think it's a way of working or a method of working like this Parliament, this level of government, and that we can't, and we won't get far, and we'll never come to a solution. I agree that we must, Mr. Belkić, what he said we must build working methods. Let's go with the methods of work really say how we meet these conditions, but that these methods of work are known before, that we accept them if we think we can do something about it. A colleague was also mentioned in the discussion that for the second time in Brussels there is a delegation in which there is no representative of a nation. You said those were calls from there. I ask you if you have ever asked a question, so you have another entity, or if you have another people who really participates in creating all these conditions that follow for our certain conditions, meeting the conditions that we need, on the basis of which we need to come to these negotiations or to come to any European integrations. Here, I'll put the rest off. I won't do it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17198	Thank you. Do any of the MPs want to speak? Thank you very much. Does the chairman of the Council of Ministers want to speak in the end? Here you go. The chairman of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17199	So I must admit that I am too pleased that most of the discussions today were not listened to by anyone from the European Commission. I must admit that most of the discussions today have not helped the basic idea at all, and this is to learn about the implementation of the feasibility study and the possibility that Bosnia and Herzegovina may experience something in May that can be called a historic milestone on our European path. I said at first, I consider it to be a man who, under the Council of Ministers' Law, co-ordinates all activities of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the European path. I think it would be very good if we had one resolution today, some stronger conclusions. But I can see most of the debaters haven't talked about it at all. So I will only briefly explain that this council of ministers, when proposing a law, must bring the law into line with entity governments and the European Commission, European experts, to ensure that it is according to European standards. Neither the chairman of the Council of Ministers nor any of the ministers from the Council of Ministers wrote your Rules of Procedure. Your Rules of Procedure say precisely that the Council of Ministers does not declare your amendments. So if you think something's wrong and something's wrong and it's not according to the European standard in the law we sent you, you have absolutely the right to submit 33 amendments. But I think you have an obligation to bring that amendment into line with possibly the European Commission or some experts to see to ensure that that amendment is according to European standards. We're no longer in a position to keep someone's mind on amendments like that, not agreeing with anyone. Here, you do not need to agree with the Council of Ministers, you yourself have been working for more than 2 years in the Rules of Procedure which absolutely amnests the Council of Ministers from that procedure. Your amendments are your business and you cannot blame the Council of Ministers for something that the international community does not accept, and the product is the work of your amendment action. It is your duty to bring your amendments into line with European standards. If you don't, you can't blame anyone. Therefore, I, be careful, the European path is not the Adnan Terzić project, the European path is not a project of this council of ministers, or Osman Topčagić, or any minister, the European path is the only possible route and I simply have no intention of convincing anyone how to cross that European path. The way some have discussed is a safe way not to cross the European path. Maybe that's our way. But I think we better go with a strong resolution that will require all institutions in power to help the Council of Ministers meet our obligations. And it doesn't matter at all what it says who's obliged to carry out certain residual parts of the physibilities of studies. Is Parliament 3 or 2. Is Council of Ministers 20 or not? The Council of Ministers is now working, and I've told you the sublaws that mean the full implementation of the laws we've passed. And it's not true, as some MPs said we have a slowdown. We have rapid progress on the European path, and this is because we have such a commitment and the possibility of the Council of Ministers to understand the moment in which we are and to offer every project legally in accordance with the consensus within the executive authority in Bosnia and Herzegovina and European standards.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17200	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Beriz Belkić is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17201	I have to react when it comes to these amendments. So, MPs' amendments absolutely and always ask us to make a statement on our amendments. So we haven't eliminated ourselves, or authorized you to say no to your opinion on the amendments. It's just that we don't have a representative of the Council of Ministers where we need them on working bodies, commissions. You're not Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers yourself. And don't, I'm telling you for the second time to take responsibility for things that aren't your responsibility. That's one thing. The second thing you've seen is that there's no support for this House about these things that you've been talking about for a while. So as far as the Party for BiH is concerned, we are prepared in every form, if you followed what I said, to support these efforts in every form to implement these things in May. Really, please, don't make any constant confrontation with Parliament. Thank you. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17202	I thank the gentleman. I'd like to ask, Mr. Zorić, if you'll excuse me, but for a moment, please. We have, the College has a proposal to conclude how to get out of this situation, we're monitoring developments, it would be that you might hear us, too, maybe, but here you go, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17203	Well, I don't make sense to give up another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17204	Okay, but then very briefly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17205	Very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17206	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17207	I don't think it's good, especially from this House's pay phone, to say that if the MP is going to file a bill, he should consult anyone else, because then he shouldn't, but one MP. Because what the European Commission can say to me differently than Mr. Ćeman. Then I can only say, Mr. Ćeman, you ask the European Commission, if she thinks she's okay, I don't even have to come. I don't think that's good, at least here to say it even though it's too sensitive for all ministers and most MPs to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17208	Thank you. If no one is answering for a word anymore, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, the aim of today's debate is defined in the request of the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers for inclusion in the agenda Information on the implementation of the request of the Implementation Study and it is listed in the last sentence of the letter signed by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers. We appreciate that the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina should give support to the Council of Ministers because the Information has been submitted with the aim of ensuring the support of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly to meet the remaining elements defined by Commissioner Ren's letter and could be adopted in the form of a resolution. We have therefore discussed it and we appreciate it, at this point we have agreement on the form of a conclusion and for procedural reasons which would also call for the remaining levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to actively co-operate with the Council of Ministers to meet the conditions and start negotiations. 35 Dear colleagues and colleagues, in that context I ask you to follow me. I propose, i.e. the College of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with what I just read, I propose the following conclusion, so it proposes the next conclusion. - Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Application of the Performance Study is accepted and gives full support for meeting the remaining elements defined by Commissioner for Enlargement of the European Union Mr Oli Ren since 4.4.2005 and calls on all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to actively co-operate with the Council of Ministers to meet the conditions and start negotiations. This is the proposed conclusion of the College. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. If no one answers my word, I'll close the debate. Mr. Gligorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17209	I don't think it would be a bad idea to have a discussion about the proposal for this conclusion. It's all right that we received this information. Perhaps it would be best to know, etc. But to support the Council of Ministers that all full power means we as legislators, etc. We have raised the Council of Ministers above the Constitution of this country in the way you chaired it. There is really no way nor does this need the Council of Ministers such one support in the sense that they are the institution of which absolutely everything revolves in this country. I understand in diplomatic relations that we are talking more to the prime minister than we are talking to the president of parliament, and the president of the state or...what we have the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. But you objectively gave authority to the Council of Ministers which he does not have under the Constitution and he is sublimation means legislative and executive authorities. To try to make a conclusion that will answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17210	They understand you, Mr. Gligorić, and I will fix this proposal immediately. So, here you go, Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17211	I only pray in future that when the chairman closes the debate, it happens to us all the time after the conclusion, etc. I understood the proposal the following way. It is not the word of the Council of Ministers used except that information is received to know, and it is supported, the fulfilment of the conditions set out in Mr Ren's letter is supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17212	Yeah, yeah. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17213	We do not support the Council of Ministers, but the conditions mentioned, not by the Council of Ministers, but by Mr. Ren. I'm asking to put it to a vote and we'll determine who supports it, who doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17214	Thank you for your help, Mr. Belkić. Please, Mr. Belkić, thank you very much. You don't need to, Mr. Gligorić, I'll do it right now, so please, I totally understand. So all levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina are being expressed here. So I made a mistake. Here they are to stand and call on the remaining levels of government, so that we preserve the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and our position here. That's how it stands in this letter right here, and that's exactly what it's written. So I would appreciate what you were saying if I understood you correctly. Please, please, once again, I will slowly read the proposal for a conclusion. Follow me. I think he reflects the discussion and what was said in the Council of Ministers' request. This is one moment in which the Parliamentary Assembly of the Sea, I think in an adequate way to respond to the request of our Council of Ministers. So here's the deal. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation Study and gives full support for meeting the remaining elements defined by the EU Enlargement Commissioner, Mr Oli Ren, as of 4.4.2005 and calls on the remaining levels of government in Bosnia and Herzegovina to actively co-operate with the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina to meet the conditions and start negotiations. I think we can approach now. Here you go. Mr. Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17215	I would beg not to enter into practice one thing that in some way, at least me, I feel very uncomfortable, to receive a letter from a European one, so he was not sure who, that I accept it, and not to look at it, today I got it, I didn't critically see it, I didn't read it. So I'd like to ask you to delete that letter. In addition, it seems to me that here is the prejudge of certain solutions. Prejudication of certain solutions to which tomorrow and how some will be called. So in order for us to vote this, I suppose, we have to delete that letter. We will carefully read it, pay full attention and make sure that we understand it with full capacity. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17216	That if we delete Mr. Kunić
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17217	And today we got it, I didn't even read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17218	Thank you very much. If we delete that, then today we've had a free debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17219	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, I regret that I haven't been able to hear much of the debate, but I simply can't figure out why the end is like this. I guess the goal of all is for Bosnia and Herzegovina to move faster towards Euro-Atlantic integration and there is no dilemma. When we come to support, therefore political support, then different dilemmas are opened as to what this parliament's relationship to what remains of its obligations will be. That's what we're wondering. And we're going to have concrete talks on projects that are mandatory. But why don't you back it up, so why don't you support the attitude that we want to work it out. Ollie Ren is not a lame factor. He's the Enlargement Commissioner. Through it speaks the European Commission and the Union and sends us a message. So I don't want us to open up here right now if we figured out a letter like when Broz was writing, he was talking in Split. And so we reserve the right to all say about these projects what we think. I may think differently from all of you when it comes to the reform of the TV system, the police, etc. But I think it's a condition. Now it's no good when they send us a message through someone, then we don't know what God's standards are. I think this has exceeded the conclusion that we support the Council of Ministers to invite other levels of government to close co-operation to meet the conditions. How will they cooperate? What option will they win? Which option will win the debate, will come before Parliament and we will say. So this is a perfectly logical support for me to ensure that the Bosnia and Herzegovina's upcoming line towards Euro-Atlantic integrations. We are not deciding today what the TV system will be, nor are we deciding what the police system will be in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So we are not making any more concrete decision, but we support that we will end these things within what is expected. I do not wish to conclude really, I fear that the conclusion story will put and disabling all these good stories and discussions within Parliament. That's how I wanted to help, and it might not be good for us to discuss the Council of Ministers as some foreign body in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has a difficult role, and as it makes it happen, is it for some good, bad, average, that's another thing, it can be different political stories. Thank you very much. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17220	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Anyone else want one? Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17221	However, Mr. Chairman, with these topics and conclusions, every word is important, and it can be interpreted really differently, I will, after a few words that I say, request a brief break to get this proposal a conclusion in writing. So as long as it takes to type and get it in writing. Look, it's very important in the conclusion that I realize that we're going to make a maximum effort, and it's also important that I don't support this conclusion that all legal budgetary competencies must be raised to the state level by the police. So I don't want to give it to my conclusion, but I want to give full support to the reforms in the way they will be agreed. I don't know how it's gonna be arranged, I don't know if and in what way this unique Ombusman, or the Ombusman institution, will be fully agreed on, will it be so. If that's what I'm supposed to say right now, I'm not ready to say it right now. But I am willing to make every effort to make sure that all the requirements mentioned here are met, and in that sense, I am prepared to support a request that will thus define my willingness to, uh, support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17222	Thank you. Mr. Kunić is looking again for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17223	I have to say, I usually try when someone comes out for a pay phone, and I totally understand what he's trying to say. But this time, I didn't understand Mr. Špirić. He had a lot of acrobat jumps, acrobatics. Well, I'd like to see what he's proposing, what you're suggesting about this conclusion. I would beg him, I didn't understand him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17224	Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17225	Mr Špirić never used acrobatics in this House, he spoke clearly and the only thing is how many people want to understand me. Here's Professor Kunić what I think. So I don't think the letter from Oli Ren is a non-serious letter. I don't think Oli Ren is the man through whom Europe doesn't speak, is not sending messages to the BiH public. So it's the EU Enlargement Commissioner. If we are determined to be part of the United Europe, we will take this letter seriously. And we've had a debate today that says what's left of unfulfilled conditions. And today we need to support the Council of Ministers that we will do everything to make part of European conditions, that part of the conditions in line with European standards, we do in this country 39 to speed up its path, not in concrete matters as it will be resolved. Me and Momo Novaković differ, for example, when it comes to police reform. If the European standard is to be one law at the state level and Budget at the state level, it will be things that will not be controversy, but there is something that is not a European standard, which we can talk about, as we are told publicly. It's a police organisation within BiH. So let's send a message to at least reach a consensus on it. We will not be allowed to debate what is a European standard. So we all need to get it out of our heads. We're gonna lose time. But here they were alive and saw. So I am in favour of us supporting BiH's executive power to do everything in symbiosis of all levels of government to meet the remaining conditions. And in order to meet the remaining requirements, the dialogue must last 24 weeks inside BiH. It can't be until the end of this assembly, so someone's gonna say it like this, someone's gonna say it like that. So, what kind of TV system will be, what police reform will be, there is still public dialogue to be conducted. That's why I don't think this conclusion is bad, as far as I'm concerned. I beg you, therefore, to ask for a break, that those who have observations want to change words etc. I don't mind that either, but I don't think the purpose of this conclusion is to dissuade anyone politically, but to strengthen what needs to be strengthened in this country. I have an objection to, you know what my position is when it comes to the Council of Ministers, but I don't think we should always be in a conflict in a kid. People are looking for our support. Whether we give it away or not. So in that sense, I don't think this is a bad conclusion for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17226	Please, this one, Mr. Kunić. Here you go again. We've heard your attitudes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17227	Something new I haven't heard in this room. No Niko said Mr. Ren's inconclusive letter. As far as I've been listening, very carefully to everyone, that's what no one has said.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17228	So here's a stenogram, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17229	Please, please, no one said that we were in a kid with someone, and no one said the same thing. We want the best. But we don't want to, if Mr. Špirić has had a conversation with Mr. Ren three or four times, I don't know Mr. Ren, I haven't seen or talked, I haven't talked, I don't know what I got today a letter and I want to, it's my right to read it and express my position on that letter, it's the basis of democracy, Mr. Špirić. And please let me have my say about it. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17230	Okay, please, have you finished Mr. Kunić?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17231	I did.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17232	Yes, thank you. Please, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, it would be good if we could, if I could read this one more time, if we hadn't gone for a knock, then we could say yes and then we could take a break. If Mr. Novaković insists on knocking this out, then we'll take a break, I don't see another way out. If we can, I can read it one more time. Here, please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17233	Let him knock, after the break we'll vote, so there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17234	Please be nice, so stay with me, so please, okay, please nice, now we're gonna take a break for lunch, so we're gonna use this time. Let the Professional Service beat up a stenogram of what I did on the second occasion when I made that change and let it come to all the MPs on the bench here. We're going back to work in one hour. Break by 2:30. ...those who intervene are right. [[PAUZA]] We can keep working. You've received a proposal for this conclusion. You saw it in a stenogram, I invite you to, Mr. Momčilo Novaković, ask for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17235	I thank Mr. Chairman, I have reviewed this conclusion and I have some objections to its text, to offer a solution that is very close to this conclusion. I think it removes the remarks that colleagues from the Independent MPs' Club and the Serbian Democratic Party's Club. I would therefore suggest the conclusion that it is, accepts the Information of the Council of Ministers on the realisation of the request for a feasibility study and gives full support for meeting the remaining requirements, point. The remaining levels of government in BiH are called on to actively co-operate to meet the conditions and start negotiations. I think we've met our goal with this conclusion and we've avoided some of the remarks that were here. I'll make this proposal a conclusion. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17236	Okay, thank you, Mr. Momčilo Novaković. So, Mr. Novaković suggests, therefore, for the sake of a stenogram, that the conclusion reads, the Council of Ministers' information on the implementation of the feasibility request and gives full support for meeting the remaining requirements, point. The remaining levels of government in BiH are called on to actively co-operate with the BiH Council of Ministers to meet the conditions and start negotiations. All levels of government in BiH are called on to actively co-operate to meet the conditions and start negotiations. Here's a proposal, now the SDS Club's conclusion, here's Mr. Križanović,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17237	...proposed, I fully agree, only after the point of this, after the point where the sentence begins, they are called on, I propose that we put the Parliamentary House of BiH's Parliamentary Assembly invoking the remaining levels of government, etc. Because I think you know who's calling.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17238	After Mr Križanović's discussion, we can now define Mr Novaković's proposal for a conclusion, which reads. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the request for a feasibility study shall be accepted and full support shall be given for the fulfilment of the remaining conditions, point. Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly are urging all levels of government in BiH to actively co-operate to meet the conditions and start negotiations. Okay, here's the proposal we've defined for Mr. Novaković. I hope you understand him. Mr. Sead Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17239	...to make a compromise between one and the other, because we really had a letter today, I view it as a letter from the European Commission, and the European Commission is monitoring BiH's behaviour in meeting the conditions for accession to the European Community. So we can't and we can't avoid what happened today on the benches of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, so I propose the following. So, information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Application of the Performance Study is accepted and full support is given for meeting the remaining conditions, right? The remaining conditions, not the point defined by the European Union's letters of 04.04. In 2005, they also call on the remaining levels of government, etc. to cooperate with those things. So, a letter from the European Commission, please, no, no, a letter was apostrophysed by the EU Enlargement Commissioner, etc. I know what I'm saying. A letter from the European Commission and nothing else. 42 No, we really can't avoid this, we can avoid this, but I don't think that makes any sense. Well, it's not, well.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17240	Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17241	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the letter is we, we received, to set things in order how they were going. We have received information from Mr. Chairman Terzić, and this letter, if you have not paid attention, is addressed to Mr. Terzić. He writes nicely to the chairman, or Mr Adnan, the letter has been addressed, he has informed us of this letter, we, through this conclusion which was proposed here, supplemented by Mr Križanović, are giving full support and this letter has not been written to us by Mr Avdić, but has been sent to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17242	Please, can we please, no, I'm not trying to find a solution to this situation. Careful, therefore, it is not disputed in this Parliament that this Parliament and all the institutions of government, since they are partners with the European Commission, or the EU, will meet the requirements set by the European Commission. If we could maybe move this, get a unanimous conclusion from Parliament that we don't split, we don't share, that we don't put one conclusion and another conclusion on the vote. If we could create one variant that will contain all of this together and reflect at the end of our will. Let's say, if I can now propose a compromise between these two solutions, that between these first two sentences, this text still stands in line with the European Commission's demands. If we can insert that text, I don't think it's a questionable thing, then we could, uh, approach it. I'd like to ask, can we accept Mr. Novaković for this? You may, Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17243	Since we started being so creative, here's to making a contribution. I would suggest the next conclusion. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives takes note of the information on the implementation of the BiH Council of Ministers' Implementation request and gives full support to all BiH institutions that, in accordance with the BiH Constitution, they are co-ordinated to work towards meeting the necessary conditions of the Performance Study as preconditions for BiH's inclusion in the EU stabilisation and accession process. I think this could be the same compromise. That's it, thank you. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17244	Okay. Mr. Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17245	This is really amazing. Do you really think that in one word we're going to put or not put on, we're making something extra and we're solving something special. As far as I'm concerned, you can do whatever you want, we can't conclude anything today. He doesn't need anything. If it isn't under the Constitution, if it isn't under the Constitution if it's a commission, if it isn't a commission, nothing's going to crash people. Here you are agreeing with everything.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17246	Okay. Please, you'll get the word. Just to give Novaković the word, you'll get it right away. Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17247	Mr. Chairman, I hope that my colleague Belkić did not address us individually when he said whatever you wanted to adopt. I guess he meant everything to this whole house. I will support the appetizer who gave the chair, so it stands to be given full support for fulfilling the remaining conditions, means in accordance with the European Commission's request and then this second sentence goes.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17248	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think that we have come to a compromise solution that reflects and what is needed by the Council of Ministers in order to continue the work and now, in conclusion, please just a little bit, the conclusion that I would now put to the vote, after this statement, read - the Information of the Council of Ministers on the Implementation of the Application of the Performance Study and give full support for meeting the remaining requirements in line with the European Commission's requirements, point. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives calls on all levels of government in BiH to actively co-operate on meeting the conditions and beginning of the changeover. Mr. Terzić, this is a concise proposal, so I'm putting him to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 30 votes in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority adopted this conclusion that I read. The information on the implementation of the feasibility study request is therefore accepted and full support is being given to meet the remaining requirements in line with the European Commission's demands, all levels of government in BiH are called on, the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives calls on all levels of government in BiH to actively co-operate to meet the conditions and start negotiations. So that's what we adopted, I just said it again, I apologize you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17249	But we didn't do this today, Oli Ren, we didn't have it on the table.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17250	The European Commission, that is the European Commission ii. Please, thank you very much, we're climbing to the next third item of the agenda, that's Ad.3. Analysis of unsolicited parliamentary issues, i.e. the relationship to parliamentary issues coming from the House of Representatives within this point, we can comment on the answers received to your questions and ask new parliamentary questions. In this context, I would like to inform you that by this session, the questions have been answered, Sead Avdić asked at the 46th session, Adem Huskić at 51st session, Senija Kapetanović, Selim Bešlagić and Ivo Miro Jović at 52nd session, Mirsad Ćeman, Seada Palavrić, Filip Andrić, Adem Huskić, Petar Kunić, Sead Avdić and Zlatko Lagumdžija questions from 53rd session. The BiH Prosecutor's Office has asked Ivo Mire Jović to report to the Prosecutor's Office on a concrete show in which the chairman of the FTV Management Board called for the destruction of the authorities, I read what was written here. I am opening the debate, so the agenda point is to deal with parliamentary issues and within that, you can also ask new parliamentary questions and comment on the parliamentary questions to which you have received answers. Please, I'm opening a debate. All right, Mr. Sead Avdić, let's get Ivo Miro Jović ready. All right, you'll all get, please, Secretary, you keep keeping track, I've called the first two, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17251	Through the analysis of these questions, 67 questions came from the position and 63 questions, as I could classify it by the opposition. So over 130 outstanding questions, over the past 2.5 years since December 2002. It's for not believing. Which means, objectively in this case, the Council of Ministers has the feeling of the BiH authorities at least ignoring what the opinion and electoral bases are and what the opinion of the House of Representatives and the Rules of Procedures operating in this House is, which means that the least we can do is to publish these issues and to say that they remain irresponsible by the Council of Ministers or to give a deadline within the next month to answer these questions to the BiH House of Representatives. That's one thing. And what I have received answers to these several fundamental questions really cannot be a resolution by Dr Lagumžija enough to delay or simply extend 6 45 months to ask 15 MPs to hold a session with OHR representatives and the High Representative of BiH. Which means it can't be a reason six months ago we sent them a request and Dr. Lagumdžija delivered the resolution a few weeks ago. It means that this answer that the College has come up with, for me, is not founded or really valid until the end. I'm surprised that the College has tried in this way simply to destroy this question of mine and these, and that's not the way to go, that's true. And, secondly, this request remains, and in this context, it would be good to put this back on the agenda, really this parliamentary issue, and to agree or at least to organise a thematic meeting with the High Representative in the context of the decision or the conclusion of the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17252	Okay, thanks. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Let him prepare here's who he was, Mr. Živković. You're still telling me, please report to the Secretary of the House. Please report immediately. Here's some secretary to sign, and I'm not gonna write so there won't be any objections to protection. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17253	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I only had one two sentences for the answers. I think I'm one of the few advocates who seems to be timely in communicating with the institutions of the government, asking for answers to questions, almost regularly getting one, and I'm grateful for that. The second question is whether or not I am satisfied with that answer, or whether I am content with the answer. However, I was disturbed by the last answer I received that corresponds to the TV Federation. The reminders for, I would like to say, that is my question regarding the invitation of the editor of federal television, or not editors, but the chairman of the Federal Television Management Board, Mr. Kukić, to destroy the body of the government. And here we have a letter sent to the Regulatory Agency by FTV Director Mr. Cerović saying that he, too, deeply believes that using the word baseball bats is like a figure of speech. You know, the professor of the university is Slavo Kukić, a professor of sociology, and I'm just surprised that he's such an uninstructed and he's a good thinker of the board of directors of Television. And then the shame to be a team bigger, the lady's name is Dunja Mijatović, that's the agency I say she's out of the system outside of BiH, she's serving herself and herself, from the finances that we just approve and they take as much as they need, they don't answer to anyone or anything. That is the answer, I am so, she fully accepted that it is a stylish figure and that it is a statement in terms of meeting two people in public and political life. Well, I leave it to you, I believe that it is not in the future of that lady, because people like this are not for prosperity in our institutions. I'd like to remind myself that I'm saddened when I ask a question from the culture domain, where I think it's the easiest thing to answer. Also one institution that has this very solid of us approved budget funds, I think for 2004 that this Committee for the Conservation of Cultural Heritage in BiH is about 800 hundred and something, if memory does not deceive me thousands of marks for 2004. And, according to that realization and probably, 46 will also allow us to have business reports this year, 2.5 thousand are spent directly on protecting BiH culture, or remains for protection. I pointed out a studio destruction of the past in Mostar space. And it conditionally as a citizen might be less disturbing if it wasn't a cemetery. And then it bothers me that this cemetery doesn't have the same marking as in other places, time, space and so on. Also, it's interesting that it's our past, our tradition along the main road and imagine in the middle of a cemetery dump. And instead of reacting in a hurry for a month, in three, here's a year and a half, I don't have any answers, but I'm glad the fact is, obviously something behind the hill is going on, yesterday after a year and a half or two days, some people from the media called me, they're interested in what's going on with my parliamentary question, not from Mostar, but those from Sarajevo. And I want to update here and this way to protect our past so that we have a future and it's not a good future for those people who open up a garbage dump in the middle of the cemetery. And I'm asking a question, did you say we'd have a nice time right now? I question the Prime Minister of the County of Central Bosnia, or Canton of Central Bosnia, school 1999/2000. for this county
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17254	Go ahead, keep moving, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17255	That's what I heard, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17256	Keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17257	Thank you very much. So, school 1999/2000.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17258	I said you can comment on the answers to questions, you can ask new questions, because there are no special points of parliamentary questions and you can have a debate on the relationship with our parliamentary issues. We decided so in the College to do, because there is no, there is no specific point of parliamentary question defined. I think this is the most rational. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17259	Thank you very much. I'll do it again for the third time. So in 1999/2000, from the OPEC Fund, school lending in BiH, respectively, for the 10m-dollar Federations of BiH for this county, 750 000 were granted. All the county has realised these funds, the Central Bosnia County has not. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister, will it and when this funding is realised, because I believe that time is running out from the lender of this loan, that he will withdraw his funds? I do, so I could explain, apparently, the funds that came from the Saudi Arab Fund in 47 '96, now they're turned into loans, they don't want it to be credit, the federal government is already returning it, etc. I mean, complicated maybe a question, it would just be solved but,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17260	Okay, thanks. Please don't comment on this, while we're having a discussion, the stenogram just doesn't record it, and that's a free speech, we're just complicated by this, the state of the session. At this session, what's written in the stenogram will happen. The next speaker is Mr. Živković Milorad, let Mr. Potočnik Mladen be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17261	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, has been here for a long time practically since the start of this Parliament's work, this institution's question and answers have not functioned the way it should function and how it would be for example in BiH, as I have seen it work in other countries, and therefore it is this point of the agenda, the attitude towards parliamentary issues that come from the House of Representatives. The Council of Ministers and others to whom parliamentary issues were addressed should probably be put. However, the problem has been from the beginning until now in the dialogue. There's no dialogue here. There is no dialogue between the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers. Most of the question is addressed to them and this dialogue and this problem is here, as you can see today. The question of our relationship to such a relationship with the Council of Ministers is being raised. As an opposition figure here, I have no way of getting the Council of Ministers to even send their representatives here and to answer simple questions, as I answered the simple question last time, which someone might have been there to answer in two sentences, there's no way. So gentlemen of the position we will help you however you wish, but you must find a way to get the Council of Ministers to respect this Parliament more. I am aware that there is also guilt on our part, guilt on the part of the Rules of Procedure which has not yet regulated it, and here I am calling on all MPs to regulate these parliamentary issues by giving amendments in the way that it has been regulated, here is an example of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska where I have been for two years and where it has worked 10 times better than here. Believe me, that's the way it is. In order to go in that direction, to resolve here over a hundred outstanding questions, I propose that we do one test, to hold a session or a special session in May, which will only be parliamentary questions and answers where to try to answer all the questions answered so far, where to establish this dialogue with the Council of Ministers and if it works, to write in the Rules of Procedure that such meetings are held annually two or three times, if it works. 48 And that is why I propose two conclusions. It is up to the College of the House to organise a special session in May with only one point – parliamentary questions and answers in co-operation with the Council of Ministers. So these questions that haven't been answered so far. Under 2nd, the Council of Ministers undertakes to ensure the presence of its members, representatives, do not have to be ministers, it may be someone from their ministry who is familiar enough with the subject of a session of Parliament when it comes to agendas – parliamentary issues and answers. What we have now is not parliamentary questions and answers. This is a story for a story. We're asking ourselves questions. We'll probably never get those answers. I don't think that leads to anything. This parliament does not work that way, and I am sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17262	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17263	Mr. Chairman, I still haven't got the answers to two questions I asked, one three months ago, one thing shorter. One refers to the audit house and the mandate system in the house where it allows one people to have the possibility of conducting a review in state institutions, and the other is related to media houses and the colonial position of media houses in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and today I ask another question. - Please check whether it is true that Bosnia and Herzegovina is selling to the Sarajevo Clinical Centre, and perhaps others, medicines that are 30 to 400% more expensive than competitors, and then Bosnalijek and Herzegovina as an insult 20%, or some other percentage returns to the Director of the Clinical Center? Medicinal products should be purchased, primarily by domestic producers, but should be of adequate quality and competitive price. I ask this question because of the users of health services that allocate funds for these purposes, and most of them have minimum salaries, disability and pensions. Please make that analysis an institution established and report to this Parliament. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17264	I thank Mr. Potočnik. Mr. Beriz Belkić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17265	For me, it is a practical question of what we really wanted to achieve by including and formulating this item of the agenda, so an analysis of unsolicited parliamentary issues, namely the relationship to parliamentary issues coming from the House of Representatives. Sead Avdić gave us at least one element for analysis, because if it is 120, 60:60, I don't know what the criteria were for who the position was, who the opposition was. We're here somewhere, aren't we? Okay. So the dilemma is whether we wanted to protect Parliament's authority, change some practice of existing, or get an answer. Before we determine, and I believe all three, and I believe all three, I think it is important to point out here in Parliament that we all agree that by asking questions we are not just asking questions to get simple answers, etc. but we always have ambitions to start solving certain problems, to run certain activities, to try to protect a certain, certain kind of human rights, etc. If you read and have read this report, the Ombusmen Special Report, etc. The one we will discuss later, you will get a complete picture of the relationship between the executive authority and other institutions and, above all, according to the legislative authority, especially when it comes to human rights violations. So I absolutely join those who advocate to protect Parliament through this debate, namely to preserve authority and position towards the executive authority, to change this practice when it comes to parliamentary issues and to get an answer as soon as possible. There's a question of how to achieve it. I'm inclined to join, here was some idea, to join someone who would do these questions publicly, through the media to invite the Council of Ministers to answer us, not to warn them, but to publicly call them to the public to know how many questions and what kind of questions they haven't answered. Furthermore, I would also send them a message, especially identifying specific addresses that most often do not match, not just about the Council of Ministers, etc. send them a message that such institutions and individuals who operate these institutions will have no support in this Parliament. There is a practice in the world where parliaments ignore certain ministers and certain people directors etc. Ignoring Parliament. So we can also make it clear to the Council of Ministers – if they continue this practice, they have no support here. It's about the debate on this agenda point. And it's practically a kind of correction of the wrong allegation, in my opinion, by my colleague Jović, I think Mr Jović is not out of the system. Here's why. We have appointed, or we have discussed the report on work, the budget of this country has been included. I think we've set up a council, a board of directors. So it seems to me they're in the system. That the Director of the Council of Ministers appointed them. Now your grade of how they work, you like it, not 50 like it, it's something else. But I don't think they're out of the system. That they're part of this system. I speak by the facts, by the factors, because really people are in the system.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17266	Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Jović, please. Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Joza Križanović. Let Mr Ibrahim Đedović prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17267	Thank you. I would like to begin by reminding us that at the last session, we have concluded that at this session, as a special point of the agenda, there will be an analysis of the outstanding parliamentary issues, i.e. the relationship to parliamentary issues coming from the House of Representatives. You see, for this item on the agenda, we've been given a review of issues that are not answered in the final 50th session of the House. The question arises whether the material delivered can satisfy the defined item of the agenda – analysis. I am particularly disappointed with the position of the chairman of this house that on such a serious issue that it was just inevitable to ask the agenda of this house, because for these almost two years and three, four months we have one total ignoring of the institutions to tell Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to the Institute of Representative Affairs. And instead of focusing today on this serious issue, not to discuss the irresponsible and to ask new parliamentary questions, but to see what is the problem of why one of the significant elements of democracy is not working, which is a representative question for the executive government. We are introducing today and this is Mr. Chairman of the Rules of Procedure's violation, on his own, introducing what is past the agenda point. Take it, read the agenda point. And take the conclusion of this same home from last session that it will be an extremely special item of the agenda – an analysis of parliamentary issues and a relationship to these parliamentary issues. This points to one non-critical approach of our college in preparing this session and here at the end and running this session, as far as this agenda is concerned. The question is really how much more rational it is to waste time and a half an hour and more time at this session asking questions. It is a drastic violation of our Rules of Procedure which I must admit that we have agreed to this violation and have not so far had such a critical relationship with it. So, the analysis he wanted to make had to be done alone. A year ago, I presented to this same house a brief analysis of the relationship to parliamentary issues by the end of the 2nd month 2004. And of course, then I had to do the next analysis to know anything about these parliamentary issues. 51 Allow me just a few findings. The parliamentary issues are therefore intended to point to a current problem and to ask the executive authority, or the competent institution to react or explain a certain phenomenon. So it's about current issues. We have a situation that no oral response has been given for these two and a few years of this term of office. Not at all. Allow me just a few details, I won't bother you, but let's say until the 45th session from the beginning to the 45th session asked 260 parliamentary questions. It came to them, of which 260 was obtained 89, the 89 was given the answer, which is about 35% somewhere. And those questions to which the average delay has reached are greater than two months. Our Rules of Procedure on Work states that if it is impossible to give an oral answer to the question that the answer will follow within 7 to 30 days in writing and that the answer cannot contain more than one page of the text type. I've seen the answers to the parliamentary questions that sometimes represent elaborates, empty stories, history, etc. That doesn't make any sense. Instead of spending time on agility, all these questions could have been answered. So, I wanted to say that the issues raised are not just about the Council of Ministers, it's about institutions, the Presidency, various agencies, and also about our college from which I have never received an answer to two questions asked. I, of course, would have had a lot more data from this analysis, but I think it's useless, we have no one else to say it to, and I'm not going to suggest anything today. But I will swear that I will never take part in the agenda again when there are parliamentary issues on the agenda until they get serious, first of all, the College of this House and protect the MPs when it comes to parliamentary issues that their efforts and time at least have some results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17268	Thank you too, Mr. Križanović. I'm an MP here just like you. I was also an MP in the previous assembly of Parliament, and I know that it was a practice at the time that the College could not be asked questions, because I cannot ask my colleagues. But here's the thing, please listen to me, I've been listening to you now, and I haven't spoken to one of you while you've spoken. I'd like to ask you to let me say what I think. But this assembly of Parliament and this college felt that there were some questions to be asked by the College as we lead the House between the two sessions, chaired by the one who is at that moment the chairman specifically and we decided to give answers to these questions. Secondly, Mr. Križanović, you have the right to be disappointed in me, but I assure you that is why you have no reason. Everything adopted as a conclusion at this home has gone from this home to the entities who are obliged to react and I cannot take responsibility unless the reaction has come to that. Here, go through all the stenograms and check out all the layoffs that went out of this house, and then you'll see about that. I can't say everything 52, but a huge part of it is that I'm not exclusive. And please don't, for no reason attack the College. That's it. And now he has the word Mr. Đedović Ibrahim. Have Mr. Selim Bešlagić prepare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17269	...I've been thinking about whether to speak at all, given the fact that we don't have anyone there again and the agenda point. This morning when we talked on an extended college, one of the assets to be point 2. The Council of Ministers' information was that there would be immediately this analysis of parliamentary issues so that people would be there so that we could communicate and that we could talk. It was one of the arguments. Apparently that argument melted and they left. And really as a man I think you're asking a question of the point of asking. I'm going to ask a question that is often raised here by some colleagues, I asked – What are vital national interests, to be taxed on me? Believe it or not, I got the answer that they don't know. Take one who doesn't believe let him look. But I got the answer. And, but we often use it here as someone, whenever something gets stuck, threatened by this, threatened by this, threatened by this. If we had the ability to communicate, to have the opportunity to discuss, to have the possibility to gain mutual trust, and I believe that many of the dilemmas and problems we face would be easier to resolve. Like this ad hoc or over the media, or I'll talk to you, obviously it's not working. I, did anyone notice, did not it not matter, simply in the last half of the year, say to himself – who do you ask? Why ask? I asked in the campaign, there we had cars all over the place, just still tampering under the allegations of official car expenses and everything else. Everyone used their position for the campaign. I asked – how much did the money cost? There's no record of me asking, not getting an answer. In this way I join those that we ask these questions only when they have, here in our Rules of Procedure is mentioned Council of Ministers, not other factors, when it comes to parliamentary issues and I am talking about them and I am asking and asking that we simply adopt some conclusion, or that we agree not to discuss it without them, because written answers have been left as an exception to the Rules of Procedure, as an exception to technical issues, technical questions and questions that simply cannot be given a short oral answer. In us it's turned into a rule and that rule is how it's implemented. Let me get this straight. So, I support all those really to find a form in the most well-intentioned, I will say the intention of finding a solution, because what Mr. and colleague Belkić says, we are asking everything we ask with a certain goal of starting something, that something is up to date, and that's how I'm experiencing it, but in any other direction and direction. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17270	Thank you, Mr. Đedović. The word is Mr. Selim Bešlagić, let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17271	Mr. Chairman, joining the analyses on this item of the agenda of my predecessors, and I said I wouldn't ask questions. But there's one thing that I can't afford as a man. This is the question - Why is the director of indirect taxation ignoring the commitments undertaken by the Federal Customs Administration and why is he re-opening a competition for the construction of a customs terminal in Tuzla that has already been invested in 5 million marks and which is one of the most modern terminals and simply unprofessional design tasks for another company located there as a service centre? If it is known that today in Tuzla customs administration has no conditions, that the terminal is already standing for a year, I believe that it is personally responsible for such behaviour and I am looking for an answer – Why doesn't it stop already, I would say play with people in Tuzla, with customs in Tuzla and with the end of the decision that the Federal Customs Administration made when building this terminal. The second question also concerns the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and I am asking him the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and that is the question - Why is it not the legal selection process of the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, and the appeal of two other candidates who have just presented the recommendation of the Obdusmen of Bosnia and Herzegovina? In fact, this candidate has been elected by a procedure that is illegal and is believed to be needed by Minister Adnan Terzić to answer this question. You'll get this in writing, both questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17272	I thank Mr. Selim Bešlagić. The word has Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Let Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as far as this analysis is concerned, I can tell you that I met a few smart people who, when they heard the information from the media, that the Council of Ministers didn't give so many and so many answers really couldn't come to themselves, is that even possible? One who exercises power if he cares about people like that, then perhaps we should imagine it. 54 Here, Mr Ivo Miro Jović has already criticised the Regulatory Agency for its question not by entering that content, but we must admit that the Regulatory Agency immediately answered this question very quickly, unlike the Council of Ministers, which does not mind that anything they say almost here and two years, at least some of my questions. I'd like to ask the next question today. - Based on what criteria is the Ocean's programme approved to account for the salaries of budget users? - Who was the president of the tender commission and who are the members of the commission? - Who bought the program from? At what price? What is the content, capacity and ability of the program? - Are the budget users consulted and have their specificities been considered when drawing up the programme's proposals? - Why are municipalities from other Serbia-Montenegro and Croatia included in the programme, instead of just the municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina? - Why are MPs not in a professional working relationship treated as suppliers with a series of illogicalities contained in the programme? - Why are budget users now asked to manually work on data processing for certain fees such as: work contracts, accommodation fees, flat rate for non-permanent Members instead of automatic data processing? - What damage has been caused by the introduction of a new program? - Who's the responsible person and who concluded the contract and under what conditions? I seek the answer to this question in writing from the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17274	Thank you. The word is Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare, followed by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, and these have been reported. Here you go. Thank you. The word is Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare, followed by Mr. Momčilo Novaković, and these have been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17276	I thank the chairman, I belong to those who thought that there would really be words here about what he writes, an analysis of the outstanding issues and a relationship to Parliament 55 questions. And I did an insight myself, a brief analysis, not by numbers of how many questions are asked, how much by content, possibly by repercussions that would eventually give rise to the state of BiH in time. For example, in early 2003, one of the parliamentary issues concerning the protection of state property was raised, the availability of state property. So I will remind you that the visok Representative recently made the decision he made, and what happened in the meantime, and that perhaps someone is responsible for perhaps not doing something that might have been encouraged by the MP's own question. So I would suggest that we collectively refer a question to the Council of Ministers. When, or whether we can get an answer to the question at the next session, the results of an analysis of the outstanding parliamentary issues, namely the Council of Ministers' relations with parliamentary issues coming from the House of Representatives. I propose that this be an initiative from this session or alternative is that we abolish the institution of parliamentary issues and others, to agree on what happens if we don't get answers to parliamentary questions. It's such a serious one. I've, of course, entered into a more detailed analysis, let's say specifically my own and some other parliamentary issues, so I'll tell you that, for example. I did not get an answer to the question when the Council of Ministers will deliver the work programme to Parliament for 2003. He might deliver it to us because they never even delivered it, let me remind you right now, I've really carefully analyzed it but I mean, this question isn't a fact that was thrown into oblivion in 2003. And I also don't know if anyone really did a good analysis here of what we got as questions, because I'm convinced if the Council of Ministers answered anyone, then that's my colleague Hasan Muratović. But he doesn't live in this address for more than a year, and he probably doesn't have an unknown address, so they didn't know who to give the answer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17277	Thank you. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić and we have another registered Mr. Novaković, but here are the others. I'd ask to conclude. Here you go, ma'am. Let Mr. Novaković prepare himself. You weren't reported, then you made a mistake. I, uh, thank you for the apology of whether, and let's get ready here, Mr. Filip Andrić, we don't lack questions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take part in this issue with an attempt to say a few words in general on the issue of parliamentary matters as briefly as possible. And, secondly, something a little more concrete. 56 Our Rules of Procedure, on pages 84 and 5 and part 86 with six members, has regulated the issue of parliamentary issues and they have an answer as far as we are concerned and we expect someone else to solve it for us. However, either out of ignorance or out of need, we did not go further and normally that someone used and abused it and put us in such a position to ask questions about the dignity of this House and the relations of executive power towards this House. Gentlemen, there is an impression that many Rules of Procedure do not respect. In particular, this refers to those who were to be on the other side, who were to prepare certain answers to the demands of the MPs of this House. Therefore, one point or another is to show these people to read that part of the Rules of Procedure, because it also hangs them under the supposed terms of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, even some conclusions have been made to boost the tension created on parliaments when it was not answered or ignored through parliamentary issues. You're all aware that no such conclusion has been made. treče, looking at in principle, which means it is not written in the Rules of Procedure, but it is done in practice in all parliaments of the world, that parliamentary issues should at least be up to 80% of the opposition and that 20% should be allowed to be found in the colloteric issues of interest by those whose people stand, sit and work at the Council of Ministers and who should be at other instances and elsewhere to discuss their relationship with both this Parliament and this state. Fourth, Article 128. Rules of Procedure, this Parliament is clearly and decadently told what needs to be done. What should be done by the Council of Ministers and other bodies that are further under the authority, control, etc. The Council of Ministers probably don't know or won't know, better said they don't respect a part of this Rules of Procedure. I must be disappointed here and inform this Parliament that they are not only in a subordinate position of the Members of this Parliament. The authorities of this Parliament have also been ignored. Gentlemen, the Commission of this Parliament does not respond to the conclusions of the executive bodies. I may not be specific, but I will only allow one question which since 15th of last year, the Transport, Communications and Communications Commission, whose deputy I am, has been asking 10 questions and none of them have wanted to answer so far. So it also ignores Parliament's authority. Furthermore, what I wanted to say in general is that the problem lies in the next. You can see that we are all collectively insolent when it comes to Parliament. However, you must be aware that we have been trying to run the responsibilities of the Council of Ministers and authorities, but they have hidden themselves in the coverage of the parties they are from. Not to say here, the ruling parties. So they're protected here by the majority and we from the opposition have absolutely no chance of resuscitating, starting and putting on a track that would lead to the results that we're talking about here. 57 Secondly, something concrete, you all know well that I have asked many parliamentary questions in this House, many. Unfortunately, in the report that came to us, at least 20% was not registered at all, whether they were set up or not. 50% is agreed, 50% is not at all and of those 50%, 40% were 100% of the answers I reacted to sharply and said that this is not an answer and I ask that I be answered again. Never on my repeated question, and as far as I can remember, no one in this House has ever been answered again. So, somewhere out there, it's all crossed. What I must point out is this, my questions asked the Council of Ministers for action because they are not a single question when read, for questions, but to fill in a part of the activity and cavity that feels in the work or not the work of certain bodies which in a certain way harms this country and this people. I'm not, I have to be disappointed again, not to the responsible, nor the irresponsible question has come to the realization that any activity related to what I've asked the question about has been initiated. On the contrary. I was moved, I was humiliated when at one reception in Geneva the secretary of one of our distinguished mins, says the parliamentary issues serve them as a joke and serve to kill boredom, not to answer. I couldn't talk for two hours at that reception. These are the people who are sitting in this House who will confirm it. The question is, so what do you expect from those questions if they have such a destiny in the background? And here, you see proof and have it unfortunately. Furthermore, a particular group of issues that I have tried to raise about crime and organised crime are particularly striking, in which part is in the spiral and part of the leadership of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17279	Take only care of the weather, Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17280	Here, Mr. Chairman, unfortunately, that's how it happens when I say it, that I get distracted and the others don't turn away.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17281	Because the discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17282	I can talk 25 times.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17283	I'm too long and I'm obliged to do it and please move on, but finish up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17284	Okay, well, I've been paying attention to some crime. Niko one in this House has ever given attention to this. Unfortunately, they gave some of the OHR but expected and expected an answer from these organs. Such leadership, unfortunately, and 58, will not answer such questions because it would either trap him to get into a position of temptation or to have something else with him. I think by my analysis of the interdepartmental and there's a reason why he's not answering these parliamentary questions. In European integration with this, we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17285	Thank you. Mr. Filip Andrić is no longer registered. Mr. Filip Andrić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I will not be as short as my esteemed colleague, my predecessor. This, prompted by the High Court Prosecutor's Council to question counterpart Kapetanović, in which they claimed that the council has been constantly seeking to appoint judges and prosecutors at all levels in BiH to bring the national structure established according to the '91 census. I would beg them to stop trying, rather than finally start doing it. And so I ask them, when will the council coordinate the national structure of judges and prosecutors in Hercegbosan County, in accordance with the Constitution of the Federation of BiH, or the 1991 census. Thank you very much, over.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17287	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this was a list of those reported for this discussion. I'm closing the debate. So please, let's focus now, the point of this agenda point was, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, you raise your hand, right? Are you looking for a word again? Here you go, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17288	I'm really sorry, but something new is news, I mean, it doesn't deserve attention because we've been discussing it all day. My colleagues and fellow MPs have just been announced that Serbia-Montenegro has received a positive feasibility study, and in this regard I am truly pleased, and at the same time, of course and regret that we are now the last country in the region on the path of approaching at various degrees of EU membership. And, I think it would be good, to fit that little into the context of our debate today, and maybe if we need to fit into the context of business issues to ask a question, what does that mean for BiH? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17289	Yeah, you're absolutely right. Thank you for this information. And the right direction is actually meeting the conditions, so BiH can get off this bottom that you've been talking about and less tulips of debate and more efficient work and work. 59 But I have to conclude this item on the agenda, so I have to come out with proposals regarding the conclusion of this agenda. So what I can say for myself is that we have reason to be dissatisfied with our relationship with our parliamentary issues and I think it's an undisputed thing. The second thing is to ask the institutions, especially the Council of Ministers, who owe us answers to questions, to have those delivery answers and the third thing, which comes from this debate, is actually that we need to figure out a way to make our parliamentary issues effective. Please,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17290	... before and in that
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17291	You're nowhere to be registered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17292	And in that sense, I wanted to have, I wanted to give one initiative just to bridge this situation when it comes to the institution of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17293	So say it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17294	In this regard, it seems to me that it has quite affected the dissent of colleagues, at least after discussions discussed in this report, on the issue of this institution, institutions asking questions and answers. I believe it's a very good institution in the communication of government and base and that we should never allow it to be brought into this position, that people no longer have the will to ask questions. I've been going over this report, I've been going over these questions, and it seems to me like a little bit I wouldn't like to hear the answer, even though I didn't ask that parliamentary question. That's why I wanted to give the initiative something. It may not be designed until the end, but I would leave it to the College that one more time in one communication with the Council of Ministers and normally with other executive institutions, find one model, whether it will be, because I thought of one moment of the current clock where certain ministers who are not on the road, who are at the moment when the session is held there, that they were here for an hour so we could ask them a question and that they could give us direct answers and written questions to give written answers. I think it would be, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17295	Thank you very much. It's on the trail of what I was about to say right now. Be careful, therefore, that the third thing or first thing that we need to take into account in the 60th future is to figure out how to make this institution of parliamentary issues effective in this Parliament and I think that when we draw up a new Rules of Procedure or when we consider it here, it must take a special account. I was telling you that I was able to listen to it done in the Norwegian Parliament. There the questions are asked in advance, the minister is called in advance and the one who asks, and you know exactly who asks, who answers and how long it takes. And there are two pay phones. There's a minister behind one of the speakers, and there's an MP behind the other. And that's how it is with us, the question is asked, and the answer is given, and the debate is being held, and it takes some time. Of course not all MPs can do it the same day but do those who are scheduled to ask these questions. But it's a matter of the Rules of Procedure. What we're going to see for sure to install into our ray is actually how to get out of this situation, make this institution effective. This would be one way, I think this is in the square and what Mrs. Sopta was talking about. However, we have now answered questions and here we have a proposal from Mr. Milorad Živković, who suggests that the College of the House be tasked with organising a special session in May with only one point, parliamentary questions and answers in co-operation with the Council of Ministers. I would be willing to accept this proposal but don't make it a special session, but let it be a special session point, so the session point again, but the College, in co-operation with the Council of Ministers, prepares it, to simply come to an answer to these questions and this second proposal, undertakes the Council of Ministers to ensure the presence of its members at Parliament's meetings when it comes to the agenda of parliamentary questions and answers, this is a constant request, but I am afraid we will not reach a conclusion that will not be realistic, because it is not possible to expect that at each session they are all present here and that they can answer all our questions. But here I am on the trail of what Mr. Živković was talking about, and I think this solves with this third conclusion regarding a whole new concept of parliamentary issues, which we will arrange for the Rules of Procedure, which Mrs. Sopta also spoke of, we can adopt these modified two conclusions today. So first, to task the College to ensure, in cooperation with the Council of Ministers, that it responds to our parliamentary questions. We will hold a meeting with the Council of Ministers and hold at the next session, again, not at the next session in May, again on the agenda, the relationship to our parliamentary issues and on the basis of the preparation that the College will do with the Council of Ministers. And, secondly, to ask the Council of Ministers for what is its usual obligation, to attend the sessions of this House always, when they do not have any obligations previously planned, and it is always a certain number of ministers who may be present here. I think that would be what's real, what we can implement and what we can insist on and the third thing, help me out a little bit. Look, I got an idea when someone's talking, help me out a little bit, we need to get to something that needs to be a solution for all of us. 61 And the third thing is that when the Rules of Procedure is brought in, we don't have to adopt it, here as a conclusion, then we're going to pay a lot of attention to how the institution of parliamentary issues is worked out, and I'm certainly going to be one of those who will insist on some kind of Norwegian model when asking parliamentary questions. Is this how we can figure out this part of the agenda? You can,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17296	The Honorable Chairman, since, in addition to my conclusions, you have suggested that this be the point of the agenda. I'd just ask, if it were the agenda point, here's the deal, not to limit the time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17297	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17298	Because there's over 100 urgent questions, we'd like to ask the Minister a few questions for them to answer. So if that's the agenda point, then you're not just time-limiting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17299	Okay. Mr. Avdić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17300	I repeat once again that there is a sense of parliamentary issues, if it will come to ordinary people in this country, where parliamentary questions do not come and have simply become a private matter of every individual, which is not the function and scope of a parliamentarian. We speak and simply protect the interests of the electoral body and, in this context, we simply have to offer these 130 outstanding issues to the public. 130 unanswered questions. I've got ten jubilee unaccounted for.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17301	Seade has been offered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17302	It's not. It's not said in the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17303	Well, given the public, that's an earlier conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17304	The questions haven't been published yet. My second remark, this part of the session, where there is going to be a dialogueal guy with the Council of Ministers, is not worth anything again, if there is no direct television 62 transmission, which Dr Kunić and we have been asking for for a long time, that we cannot really provide these two hours directly televised questions, with a third, simply received, and that, from this Parliament, we have very little information, what we do people do. We have most of the incidents, sensational and other steps, simply what Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly is doing at full capacity. So it's necessary to really bring this home closer to an ordinary man.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17305	I beg you, Mr. Avdić, I ask you to help me to come to a solution. Mr. Avdić, I have been reading to you the letter of 8 April 2005, which you have all received, it is clear that we have realized that we have notified the public, delivered to the public, and the service. Made me a conclusion last time. And this, as far as television is concerned, the College has no influence whatsoever. We adopted the conclusion last time and asked for our sessions to be transferred from the BiH Public Radio Television Service and that conclusion was addressed. We're waiting for an answer. Please, nice. You heard these two conclusions, which Mr. Živković suggested, which I modified, so that it would not be a special session, but a special point. It is up to the College with the Council of Ministers and for the Council of Ministers to be present, of course, when required, to be a priority and, of course, by respecting other obligations of the Council of Ministers. I call upon you to come to terms with these conclusions. Prepare to vote. He's voting now. So 28 for, against no one, 2 abstentions, - 18 - 10 sufficient entity majority. We've accepted these conclusions. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda. Ad.4. The request of the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on the Railways of BiH, by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill, with an emergency request, was delivered to the House on 9 March 2005. It's a request for a procedure under Rule 104 of our Rules of Procedure. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I invite you to prepare for a plea. Prepare to vote. We are voting on a procedure under Article 104. Vote now. 29 for, no one against, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, we accepted the procedure under Article 104 for the Law on the Railways of BiH. Thank you very much. We're moving to agenda five. Ad.5. Proposal for a law on foreign affairs services, the first reading of the proposal for this law was delivered to the House on 9 February 2005. At the age of 52, the House adopted a request for a procedure under Article 104. You've been given the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. The Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, 63 refugees and asylum is responsible for examining this law. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission unanimously supported the principles of the law and adopted four amendments. There were no amendments at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17306	I thank Mr. Chairman, I must express my dissatisfaction when it comes to the procedure of this law. In fact, on the day of the meeting of the Human Rights Commission at 10 o'clock and 58 minutes, I sent amendments to this law, which, of course, can be seen when the amendments arrived at college, and I guess they arrived then. Which is why I don't know these amendments were submitted to the Commission only when it was completed. It is commercially clear that amendments can be invested by the end of the Commission's work, in this sense my amendments have been made in good time. I have been in oral talks, asking the commission later that, since several more sessions have been held by the Commission today, to put this law and these amendments on the agenda again and to act, of course, in the way the Commission thinks it should be done. I didn't come across understanding. That, in practice, made it impossible for me to repeat these amendments for today's session, because they were not even considered. All I've said is, he can probably see it in the reception office, or he can confirm or deny it in the reception office. For this reason, I ask that this House draws a conclusion, which requires the Commission that due to the new circumstances, and the new circumstances are the old circumstances which I have just presented, hold a meeting, at which it will consider these amendments and, of course, act as the Rules of Procedure does. In this way, we would, in fact, introduce the procedure of this law completely into the Rules of Procedure, therefore, completely business and amendments and the very procedure of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17307	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17308	Mr. Novaković is indeed so, and I have answered to speak because I chaired this session of the Human Rights Commission in the absence of President Elmir Jahić, who was officially absent. I can confirm that the gentleman, that we have completed the Commission's session, has found that there has been no amendments, but when we have completed the Commission, we have received information that Mr Novaković has submitted amendments within the prescribed deadline, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that is the fact. So today we have the situation that the amendments have been made in due time, given this Protocol, the time etc., that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but that information was not available to the Commission, so that it has also done its part of the work and has also established its part of the deal with the Rules of Procedure. I think the only way out in this case is what Mr. Novaković is proposing, because we're all kind of right, but, look, I'm not going to blame the service right now or anyone else for what 64 came up for. I think it should be kept in mind that when the amendment is yes, that it must take precedence to deliver in relation to another...because, simply, amendments are something that is very important and that commissions must take into account during their session. If you agree, I think it would be correct to accept this conclusion, put it back on the Commission and decide. It doesn't matter if these amendments are accepted or not, but we would have to respect the procedure and allow the MPs to exercise their right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17309	Okay, thank you. This was on behalf of the Commission. You chaired the session of the Commission. If that was the case, then we have no other way out, but to propose that the Commission draw up a new report, hold a session, to allow the amendment phase, practically until the new session of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17310	Mr Novaković is not a member of the Commission. I do not know whether, in the course of the session, someone who is not a member of the Commission can submit amendments directly before the sitting. I know that members of the Commission can.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17311	Here, the secretary will answer that question. Can those who are not members of the commission submit amendments by the end of the session of the commission. Secretary of the House, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17312	Dear MPs, I'll just remind you of the business provisions. According to Article 86. By the end of the debate, the Rules of Procedure of the amendment may be submitted by any MP, club of MPs and not by the committee responsible. In this case, it is the MP of the amendment, Novaković, who was late in the Commission and, if accepted in good time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17313	Thank you. It's quite clear. We have unprocessed amendments, which should have been processed. I msiliti, whether it's adopted or not, it's a matter of commission, and I think this should've happened this morning, but Parliament can, only Parliament can decide on this situation, Berize. Please be in accordance with Article 95. Rules of Procedure, that's right, Secretary, 95. Rules of Procedure, task our committee in charge to draw up a new report, that MPs may invest amendments and that all amendments that have come to this moment be considered and that a new report should be delivered to Parliament. Prepare to vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Vote now. I find that we've adopted this conclusion by 30 votes in favour of, 1 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, we move to the 6th point of the agenda. 65 Ad.6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Law in Bosnia and Herzegovina's institutions, the first reading of the bill is the Administrative Commission. The bill was submitted to Dom on 11 November 2004. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered an opinion on the constitutional and legal basis. The respective Constitutional and Legal Commission, which delivered the report on 17 March 2005. You can see that the Commission adopted three amendments to the bill. There are no amendments in the plenary phase. I'm opening a debate. Do we have anyone in front of the Administrative Commission just to brief on what this is about? The President of the Constitutional and Legal Commission just briefly to say let's see what this is all about. Does anyone want to talk? We're talking about the law in the first reading. Prepare to vote. I'm closing the debate. Vote now. I find that with 31 votes for, without against and 1 abstention and enough entity majority, we passed this law in the first reading. I suggest we go to another reading right now, but let's get this straight. Prepare to vote. Shall we go to another reading? Vote now. Now the conclusion is whether or not we're going to go to another reading. 30 for, no one against, two abstentions and a sufficient entity majority. Let's go to another reading, that's what we decided. Prepare to vote for the law in the second reading. Vote now. 33 for, no one against, abstention 1, sufficient entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina adopted the Law on the Completion of the Labour Act in Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions and in the second reading. We're moving to the 7th point of the agenda. Ad.7. The proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and guarantees from Bosnia and Herzegovina, with a report by the Commission on finance and the budget of the draft law, was submitted on 10 January 2005. It's being considered in regular procedure. The Constitutional and Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 4 February 2005. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. By request of 7 March 2005, the competent commission requested an extension of the deadline for the examination of this legislative proposal, which was granted by the College. We received a report from the commission on 5 April and was forwarded to you on the same day by fax. As you have seen, the Commission's report on finance and budget is negative, therefore, the principles of the proposal for a law on borrowing, debt and ragance are not accepted. We now need to implement the procedure in line with the conclusion of this home, adopted on 9 June 2004. According to this conclusion, if the House accepts the committee's report, the bill is considered rejected. If the House does not accept the report from the competent Commission, it will request that it draw up a new report, based on the new guidelines set by the House and within 66 set by the House. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17314	Perhaps it would be more correct if Mrs Milićević had spoken before me, if she had a wish, if not, I answered, motivated for the reason that I was one of those who tried to support this law, or to provide him with further procedures. I get this report, I mean when this situation happens three votes in, three against, and then it's said, she didn't accept the principle. Maybe it's a happier expression to say he didn't get support, etc. But neither was rejected in any way, simply some unsolved result, like three-three, but well, it's clear to me that the law didn't get the necessary majority. However, I want to concentrate on the reasons why this law is not supported and is proposed to the House of Representatives to end the matter. So, the principles were practically described, i.e., formulated in the spirit of what we discussed at the first point of the agenda, when we had that information from the Council of Ministers, so here it all comes down to the fact that they had not passed, that the presidents of certain institutions of the RS had not participated in making, etc., and I was again convinced that some other institutions, some other people were referred from RS to the creation of this law. So, in one word, I'm really taking the opportunity to call again to see if it's good for us to break this law today. I don't think we should let that go directly in the direction of the single market. He goes directly to harmonising certain things, editing areas etc. I don't think he's getting into entity rights about borrowing, etc., but we can't get away from the fact that the state is an address that can appear outside. You know this well all, so also before the IMF, etc., i.e. Parliament, or the authorities of the Presidency etc., after procedures have been implemented through entities etc. So, I appeal, a team before the Council of Ministers, according to my information, this legal project is supported. I appeal, if there's nothing else we can do today, let's not knock it down, let's get back on the board, let's re-evaluate the possibility again, etc. alignments through amendments, through additional consultations, etc. That's my recommendation and my motive for reporting.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17315	Thank you. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, let Mr. Gligorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17316	I suppose there will be a lot of help to hear the promoter, i.e. the resolution ministry, here is Mrs Muratović, who is working on these jobs, that sooner or later, eventually making a decision to preface the repercussion of not making, or not adopting the law, today or the next time is not important, but I am talking about the need to adopt this 67 law, of course in some form, so that we could, eventually, make a decision. I suggest we hear the RES.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17317	Thank you. Deputy Minister Kumalić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17318	I will try in the shortest lines to say what happened to this law in the procedure. This law has been done for a long time, almost two years. It falls into reform laws and it is a road that points to building a single financial market in BiH. In addition to all, almost all international financial institutions, individual representatives of the entity finance ministry participated and, of course, the State-level Ministry of Finance. When the law came in the first draft, then Mr Ivanić, asked for further consideration of the law, he also considered the remarks that came from RS, were partly incorporated into this law. After that, the law was discussed at the Council of Ministers, where two corrections were also made by members of 2nd and 24th members and was unanimously adopted by the Council of Ministers and was sent to the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I wouldn't, when we came to the Budget Committee, there were amendments that entered into the essence of the law and were not acceptable to the commission. We have acted with caution, so we have asked to postpone the discussion of amendments at the meeting and have again informed the Committee on Economics and the Council of Ministers, who have remained in their position, that amendments are unacceptable, and have also been confirmed by international financial institutions, notably the World Bank, the European Commission, and in particular the OHR has engaged. They tried Mrs Švorc, further consultations, went to Banja Luka and brought in two amendments, with which we met and accepted Articles 13 and 17 and proposed those amendments to the Commission. However, as you learned from three to three, the Commission expressed itself on the law. I would not say anything special about this law, but I must repeat that it is a reform law, a law that regulates both external and internal debt and that this is a guideline for the construction of the financial market, as we know in BiH, it is unfortunately divided so that we are practically building two systems, i.e. two capital markets. I also, or I agree with Mr Belkić's proposal, if, in practice, it means that once again this law is back on track in the RS, with the help of these international notifications, so this law would pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17319	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. After that, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dam and gentlemen, given that this is an important law and we have already heard that it is reformable and yes, it would not be a good message for a man to have such an important law, a bill on borrowing, debt and guarantees in BiH to fall in Parliament. I think it's a good solution and I'm joining these proposals by Mr. Belkić, the deputy, and it would be practically an exit variant for them too, to try to give time to the commission and to try again on the principles of reaching some agreement. This is where the deputy told us that the ministries were involved entity and up to this level of the Council of Ministers, and I have information that, if that's true, I don't really doubt your words, where the slow participation in this whole procedure on such an important law, when it comes to internal and external debt, and in this case, it would be good to leave time and try to make a circle with these institutions that are concerned and try to solve this and this ends. I also have information that it is about some significant countries, which could help, and that the precondition for adopting such a law so that they could predict in their countries certain funds and they are bound by deadlines, each of them has their own budget, and in this way they would go into one difficult position so that, in this way, they could, in fact, make their own way, if this law hadn't been passed and therefore the damage is, I think we've come pretty close, that this other alignment within the Finance Commission and the budget could help us all. That's why I'm here, so I'd like you to appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17321	Thank you very much. I support, of course, your proposal. You see, colleagues and colleagues, we still have a lot of agenda points, and my wish is to end today's session not to interrupt it. No Niko will be denied the right to discuss. I would ask that the discussions be, indeed, brief, because it's possible to say in a minute what a man thinks, at least the essence, so that we can move on. Mrs. Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17322	I thank Mr. Chairman, I want to be from the point of view of the Commission just for a moment to clarify. So we were told there were six of us present. So the vote was 3 - 3. It is said that it must be explained why the report is negative and this, in order not to be understood, why something was not accepted and what is listed here in the report, are actually discussions of Members who were against such an origin, disputed the principles of the law. So, as indicated here, that's your reason. We, as the Commission, will normally accept all the instructions, respect the decision of the House we receive. I must say, to take advantage of Mr Kumalić's presence, which was 69 on the committee, twice when we had this on the agenda and she was Minister Marić. When this bill first came to us on the agenda, Mr Kumalić, since we as the Commission received Mr Novaković's amendments, demanded that we do not consider amendments. We were able to consider them and make statements about them, and you misformed them and said the Commission couldn't accept them. We did not come to the situation, nor did we vote on Novakovic's amendments at all. In the past three weeks, the Council of Ministers has used the Council to reject Mr. Novaković's amendments. We now have a situation, so this is a complete subject of correspondence, where since October of the month when the draft draft of this law appeared, the conclusions, which were delivered at the signing, Mr Mikerević, then RS Prime Minister, was signed in the continuum of November, December, January, now March, a new government meeting, all people say they did not participate in the creation of this law by name and last name. The ministers signed off on it all in a row. I'm afraid that we as the Commission won't be able to do much work unless the Council of Ministers sits together with entity ministries and makes a draft law that is acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17323	Thank you. We still have Mr. Križanović, didn't you? I'm closing the debate. I think we have a consistent proposal here. I suggest this way that the House of Representatives do not accept the report of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, the competent commissions under this law, therefore, not to accept. To put in charge of the commission so that we can say in the next session. The next session will be 22. We can't. In the next 15 days, he makes a new report, given the debate that was held today at this home. Here you go, Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17324	This conclusion doesn't go in the direction of what's been said here. In fact, the Commission can draw up a new report only on the basis of some new facts. I think it's better, look, in this case, I'm afraid that the Commission, or that there's no obligation, there's no obligation to agree between competent notifications in entities and the Council of Ministers. But if we get the conclusion that we do not vote on the Commission's report, but only by concluding that we commit, basically extend or some, I don't know how I would define it now, I simply want to create an opportunity for the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Treasury and the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to come to a solution that is acceptable to us. Is that possible with your share? I don't think so, if we just give it to the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17325	Mr. Novaković, are you done? I think that's understood. What you're talking about, it's a thing that goes without saying. I said we must, according to our conclusion, vote on the Commission's report and I propose not to accept the Commission's report, and to give the deadline to the Commission within 15 days, to draw up a new report, taking into account the debate, which is being conducted here today, and this discussion that you have just presented to Mr Novaković also implies contacts with the Council of Ministers and all that we need in order for 70 to have the relevant report here and have the passing of this law. So this is understood. Do you have Mrs. Sopta? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17326	Mr. Chairman, from my colleague's discussion, I have somehow gained the impression that the Commission's work is relativising, and in particular the Rules of Procedure on Labour is relatively relative. I do not accept Mr. Belkić's discussion that the report, come on, we did not refuse the request. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we did not accept the principles of the law, and if I voted in favour of the law, let me put it this way. Now I wonder what the practical situation is? When we come back to the committee and vote again, so there's no need to discuss it, we discussed it once. We've discussed all the principles, and now the question is just to vote and nothing else. Does that mean that someone who doesn't go to the commission needs to... and so on, or that someone will turn their hands and vote differently. I generally refuse this kind of relativization that the Rules of Procedure, let's say, is not according to the Rules of Procedure, but we have passed the law or we have rejected it. It worked out perfectly for me, because the rules of procedure are clear, and we have done so clearly. This is more out of fear of going into one practice, when the principles of the law are not accepted that we automatically take it back, and then there are some other situations in the towers and some meetings that precede the work of the new commission and coercion. What will be a practical new vote on this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17327	We understand. Thank you very much. Mr. Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17328	You know Mrs. Sopta. The members of the RS Commission claimed that this law was not agreed upon and that RS institutions, which they consider to be involved, were not included, so they listed at least five institutions. This is the time for them to pass through these institutions and return to the Commission, perhaps they will vote differently. That's what Mrs. Sopta is about. That's how they'll behave, that's what they mean. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17329	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. Mr. Novaković is looking for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17330	That I was right. I think it's better not to vote, but to return the report. TO enable what Mr. Belkić is saying and we all agree. In my opinion, the variant is that he did not vote on the report, but that the report should be returned to the Commission within 30 days to draw up a new report so that the Rules of Procedure, if it can be within 15 days, should be within 15 days. 71
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17331	Please, will you let me run the session? Is there at least a little bit of confidence in what's being said here? Here sits the Secretary of the House, sits the College, people, this isn't the situation we just had with that law, about the old people's service. This is a new business situation. This law, it didn't go through the commission. The report is negative and only if this House knocks down the Commission's report, or does not accept the Commission's report, then we give it the right to some kind of life, and we all agree that it should be left alive and, please, follow what I say. I ask you if we can now, we should now by procedure to vote on the Commission's report. If the commission's report is accepted, the law is considered destroyed, it's gone. If the Commission's report is not received, then the committee in charge, given the debate that has been held here, should deliver a new report and undertake in the next 15 days, of course everything we have talked about here and I suggest that we go to the vote, if Mr Živković does not insist, insist. Here you go. But please let us bring her in. You don't have to say everything you think at a given moment. Well, there's something he can leave unsaid.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17332	I don't know if it's meant for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17333	No, it's not. I've been given the right to tell you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17334	But I'd like one thing to be clear. When the law is broken, whether it is destroyed or has enough time to re-install it to the competent commission with new principles within that short period. Guys, if we vote for info here, we don't get the same principles. The Council of Ministers has no right to amend the law with other principles, as it has already been put in the process once is the whole problem. If we disembowel our commission now and say she didn't do her job well, she won't change the law, no matter who she's agreed to change principles, that's the whole problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17335	By accepting the commission's report, I have five times to repeat some things, the law is gone. The law is no longer in parliamentary procedure. Please nicely, therefore, by accepting the report of the commission of this law, there is no parliamentary procedure. Whether it's new or what it's going to be, I don't know, but it's not in the parliamentary procedure. I think Mr Gligorić suggested a good conclusion and I suggest the conclusion. 1. The Commission's report, 2. It is up to the competent commission to draw up a new report within 15 days, within a period of 30 days, bearing in mind the recovery, which was conducted today at this home. 72 Behold, I respect that in the shortest time, and the longest within 30 days, he delivers a new report. I suggest we make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion. Vote now. We're voting on my conclusion. So you want to walk. Please, let's walk. We vote for the Commission's report. Whoever votes for the Commission's report is against the law. Whoever votes against the report is to keep that law alive. I'm telling you, give me some confidence. But, okay. Prepare to galley. I'm asking you, we're voting on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 6 for the Commission's report, 21 against, the Commission's report was not adopted. Please, we're moving on. So, we did not accept the Commission's report and we are voting for the conclusion now that the Commission is drawing up a new report within 30 days, taking into account the debate at this home. Prepare to vote for this conclusion. Vote now. 27 for, against no one, two abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, we also adopted this conclusion. We're moving to the 8th point of the agenda. Ad.8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Excises of BiH, with a report from the Commission on Finance and Budget, legislators: Zlatko Lagumdžija, Jozo Križanović and Selim Bešlagić, predlagač the proposal to the House on 31 January 2005. The Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Bill's proposal submitted on 17 February. The Commission for Finance and Budget shall be responsible. The Commission's report was delivered on 22 March 2005 and here we have a negative report from the Commission, so the principles of the bill were not accepted. We have a situation as well as at the previous agenda. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17336	I will say on behalf of the Commission, so, as you have seen in the report as a competent commission, that we are considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises of BiH. Mr Križanović and Mr Lagumdžija as a member of the Commission attended. A debate has been held on this bill. Most of the votes were not accepted by the Commission by the principles of the law. We have sent this law to the Council of Ministers for Opinion, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, from which we have also received a negative opinion on this bill. I'm sorry Mr Lagumdžija is not here. I'll give you a few reasons. Why I challenged the principles along with my colleagues on the Commission of this Law. First, the proposed amendments and additions to the law prescribed taxation of luxury products. There is no tax base, tax rate, tax 73 bonds with payment deadlines and the like, and if they adopted it, they could not apply it. Some products whose traffic is prohibited, for example, are listed in luxury products. The elephant, so the question arises is whether we want to legalize the traffic of certain products in this way. Article 3 provides for the possibility that the Council of Ministers may impose excise duties on other products, contrary to the agreement on the transfer of powers to BiH level. It is also a solution, these regulations cannot be passed by anyone under the Parliamentary Assembly, on a proposal from the Governing Board and the Council of Ministers, not by the Council of Ministers. Article 4 provides for the possibility of a return of excise duty on petroleum products. The application of this at this point would directly jeopardise the planned revenues of the Directorate for indirect taxation, where no return is calculated. Articles 5 and 6 are prescribed to increase excise duties on imported products, which is contrary to already signed international agreements. That would, therefore, be the reasons why we disputed, I myself would have this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17337	I thank Mrs. Milićević. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Belkić, Mr. Križanović, Mr. Bešlagić. Try it for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17338	... give support to this law, I'll give it now for a simple reason. So, I don't see any other way to break this relationship between the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and the Council of Ministers, when it comes to our conclusion of 31 January O.G. where we have committed to bring changes and additions, etc. So, we have then concluded that the Finance and Budget Committee is taking that commitment and I believe that we will do so ourselves, to the soul with a delay of two months and we cannot ignore that someone in that space has come out with our own initiative and we are now reading and listening in the papers, how the Council of Ministers, or how the Resuscitative Committee, or how the Director of the Board says that the deadline of application will be extended. I'd just like to know how he's thinking of prolonging it or the Council of Ministers is thinking of extending the deadline. Whether this is considered a decision or whether some amendments and additions of the law will be made, etc. Therefore, neither the Administration nor the Council of Ministers should be surprised that here on this issue very big things are going to happen and strange things are going to happen. Therefore, I am absolutely in favour of this law and will vote against this report today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17339	Thank you. Next is Mr. Križanović, so Mr. Bešlagić. 74
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17340	I'll do it very briefly. I would like to remind you that the legislators of this law have proposed this law, in fact, because the conclusion of this house, which obliged the Council of Ministers, by 31 January, to propose amendments and amendments to the excise duty law. Secondly, I would like to say that the amendment and the addition of this law are 90% based on amendments, adopted by this House when considering the BiH Act of Accises. The Commission's explanation sets out two important things that I want to highlight. First, that the Council of Ministers had never been shown about the proposal for this law and that the Commission had managed the particular opinion it had received from the Directorate for Direct Taxation. In that opinion, among other things, is the following. That the proposed taxes, pardo, do not contain, or reflect, an analysis of the effects of income, which are made by these amendments and additions. I'm asking you colleagues now. When we had a law here, which followed a financial... or prerequisite for its application. And, secondly, it says, I quote. "One part of the provision is contrary to the international agreements, which BiH has signed," The Third I should say, as a proponent I was on that committee, I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues, those who voted against the bill's proposal, not a single word spoke about the law, so the law was rejected without debate, simply without debate in terms of refuting, or negative evaluation of the bill. So I got the impression, and I don't want a lot of words, that this is about one party discipline, which, without any arguments, without any need, rejects a number of significant amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17341	Thank you. I'd really like to discuss it for a little bit. I'm moving Bešlagić. Let Mr. Momčilo Novaković prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17342	I'll try to be very brief. You know when you passed the Excise Act that we said the Council of Ministers would deliver a new excise law by 31.1.2005. Then it was a mother's promise we'll do it, you just adopt this law. We have proposed this law precisely on the day that this new 75 law was filed, because we said if they weren't, we would propose. That was motive. If you won't do it, we will. Secondly, this parliament has made a decision on free trade. I'm interested, and I'd like an answer to this question. Who has the right to break the decision this House has made? Agreement, international agreement. With us, the Council of Ministers has violated the agreement, we know what it is and what it is, and we believe that excises can compensate for what is actually achieved by the three agreements as a component of our economy. For these reasons, we have proposed this excise law. We will propose other laws, all the way up until some law comes, which is required to propose the one who has committed himself and who this home has committed until 31.1.2005. For those reasons, we'll keep doing it, and you say no, I'm just surprised if anyone wants to work in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17343	Thank you very much, Mr. Bešlagić. Mr. Novaković and then we'll conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17344	I understand the real motives of the legislator, given the conclusion that we have reached here in this House, but I must say that what's a problem for me when it comes to laws like this, so the laws with these consequences, are looking at the effects of these laws. Namely, I haven't found here what we expect to give us the Directorate for indirect taxation, and that's an assessment of the effects of these laws. Given that I assume the Directorate for indirect taxation when she proposed, or amended her position, she also took care of this, the SDS Club will support the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17345	Thank you, Mr. Novaković. I've closed the debate. We vote on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. We vote on the Commission's report. Vote now. 18 for, 10 against, 3 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, a Commission report has been adopted and this law is considered to have been rejected in the parliamentary procedure. We move to the 9th point of the agenda, that was the 8th point of the agenda, we move to the 9th point of the agenda, that's 76 Ad.9. A special report by the BiH Human Rights Omdusmen on the complaints of the parties related to the work of the Council of Ministers, i.e., the co-operation of the BiH Council of Ministers with the BiH Human Rights Omdusmen Ladies and gentlemen, you received this report in time, the Special Report and you received today and the Report of our Commission on Human Rights, Refugees, Immigration and Asylum. The Commission has considered this report and has proposed three conclusions and here I am opening a debate on this topic. Who wants to talk? Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17346	We will vote for these conclusions but let me say my opinion as a member of the Commission. We also asked for an answer from those who were named after these materials from the ombudusmen, i.e. The Council of Ministers shall declare these objections to the ombudusmen. At the first meeting we held, we realized that the content could be arranged in two parts. One part of the financial issue of people working in the institution of the ombudus is to pay people, and we have drawn this as a special conclusion where we have asked financial officials or the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to, to answer the question why the ombduscans didn't get paid I don't know, 4 or 5 months? This has had very negative consequences because a large number of ombudus, or people who are trained for these things, have left this institution. The second question was a direct answer to the questions relating to the complaints referred to according to let's say the people to, by the ombudussmen to the Council of Ministers, unfortunately after today's meeting that we had at 9:00, we didn't get a response from the Council of Ministers to that part, and we have made a proposal to adopt these conclusions, and this only says that the Council of Ministers not only to this Parliament but also to the institutions which this Parliament has formed, relations with the same ignoring as we do, and we believe that this is incorrect. As long as they were strangers, the answers came, when our people came simply those answers were gone. This was the last moment because the ombudusans had us and inorbed that they would just follow a general report on the protection of the work of the ombudusmen and we as the Commission have proposed these conclusions, which we are making available to you but we wanted to express our dissatisfaction with the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17347	Thank you. Mr. Beriz Belkić, let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17348	I spoke little of this special report of the ombudusmen within that item of the agenda when we discussed irresponsible parliamentary issues and I brought it into one relationship as a complete relationship between the executive authority and the legislative authority, i.e., according to the institutions, which, by their definition, protect human rights. As far as I'm concerned, and the Party for BiH MPs' club, we can support the Commission's Human Rights Report, but we don't think it's enough to process these conclusions just the dimension of the Council of Ministers' relationship to the ombudsmen, etc. In my opinion, it is very important in these conclusions to install that it is an obligation or, of course, the duty of the Council of Ministers and of all other institutions of the state to put human rights and institutions in the first priority which are in some way defined in that function. So, we support these conclusions of the Human Rights Commission, I say, noting that it is not enough just to process this dimension of the obligation of the BiH institutions to co-operate with the ombudusmen, but it is important that this co-operation and that communication go towards guaranteeing and ensuring the achievement of human rights. So, if the proposer, or if the House of Representatives agrees, with this correction, let's say in point 3 that this dimension is added to the achievement of human, greatest standards in human rights, we will support this Commission report, therefore, and accept this Special Report of the ombudusmen, of course, once again a voiced indignity to the misunderstanding of the Council of Ministers towards the institution of the ombudsmen and better put forward by the importance and priority of human rights. Of course, I'm not saying that they've been broken, but they're not allowed to check if they've been broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17349	Thank you. This is where the state ombudus are present. I welcome them on behalf of the BiH House of Representatives. The word was requested by Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I was not at the Human Rights Commission this morning, given that I was in the General College session, but I support the Commission's conclusions on human rights. I think they are indeed with measure and that they can help further work but, as far as the Special Report that has been delivered to the BiH Presidency and today to us, the House of Representatives, I have to say a visibly morning debate that lasted for hours, where we have been saying what we need to meet as conditions for European integration and that we have an obligation to form some new institutions as well. We have one institution of the state ombudusmen and the Council of Ministers that we have heard this morning, in the image of the Chairmanial Council of Minister Terzić, how important all this is on the one hand, and on the other hand we have such an important institution where 10,000 citizens submit requests to protect their human rights, where legal means, and natural persons 78 seek their satisfaction in front of this institution, because the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of the Council of Ministers, okay chairman, thus cannot resolve their issue. I therefore wish to well-intentionedly point out that the Council of Ministers can allow itself not to finance this institution, their salaries, their contributions, not giving material resources for the smooth work of the institution. Which is why the higher education staff, the graduate lawyers according to my information, I think 24 have left practically this institution, although they have passed through education in the meaning of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Therefore, it is so important and therefore the Council of Ministers had to respect the Budget because it is passed as well as the law of this country, a item that is intended for the financing of this institution, why it did not apply to these people. Whether in this country then, it turns out, and whether it is a message to the international community, and we know that human rights are being violated in this country, that institution should be shut down at BiH level. So here's why I had to say it, but I think these conclusions are going in this one positive direction to solve this problem, to really get the Council of Ministers serious, and to finish this part of their work as the Budget tells him to and orders the Law on State ombudusm.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17351	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. If no one answers the word anymore, Mr Elmir Jahić, President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I think for the second time this morning, for the third time we had as a point of the agenda, this report because so far, we have on several occasions sent a request to the Council of Ministers to show about this report, because when giving our final court, we have therefore had a report on one side which in some segments is critical of the work of the Council of Minstars. We didn't have the other side. I'd like to correct a little here, so my colleagues. It is not true that the Council of Ministers did not discuss this and those who were, therefore, had this clarification. It was debated at the Council of Ministers and certain ministries were in charge of the areas, and even we had an advance of the Council of Ministers more precisely at the Ministry of Human Rights, an assistant who explained to us that his ministry had given an opinion and that some other ministries, I don't know the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, also gave an opinion but for our really unknown reasons, it didn't come to us on the Commission. So that's what, that information that we had on the Commission today, which means that the Council of Ministers has been discussing here, exactly in charge of the relevant ministries that are being mentioned, I think one 4-5 address was being sent, they were asked to give answers about these, about this statement, where certain institutions in the Council of Ministers are called. So, the fact is one major part of the report, dedicated to the problem of financing this very important institution, the institution of the BiH ombudus, to which we can be proud about their work, and less so this report covers, these other aspects of which Mr Belkić also spoke, so respect for human rights, etc. 79 So, more of this report, most of this report is based on, therefore, based on these problems as well. We have defined these three per se general conclusions but which can be useful, give some useful guidelines, above all to the Council of Ministers to find solutions to these problems. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17353	I thank Mr. Jahić. If no one's answering for a word anymore, dear colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to conclude the debate. I mean, please, so we have a proposal for conclusions, i.e. we have the Commission's conclusions and I suggest that the House's conclusions be accepted as its conclusions, to accept the Commission's report with the conclusions that conclusion 3 in line with Mr Beriz Belkić's proposal will be completed with one sentence. This third conclusion reads, the BiH Council of Ministers and other BiH institutions are obliged to provide other conditions for the normal functioning of the BiH ombudus institution and I don't think it mind that we add this – in order to achieve the highest standards, to protect human rights, this is suggested by Mr Belkić, and this is what I think is useful to accept and build up as a third conclusion, this sentence to add. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We vote on the Commission's report, its conclusions and with the addition proposed by Mr Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17354	We are voting on the Omdusmen Report with Conclusions
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17355	Yes, what are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17356	Omdusmen Conclusion Report
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17357	Of what?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17358	Omdusmen with the conclusions of the Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17359	About Omdusmen's report with our conclusions, well along with the supplement Beriz Belkić suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17360	The Commission had a report and a conclusion of 80
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17361	Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH with 29 votes, with no votes against and abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted the Special Report of the Omdusmen with conclusions, with the report and conclusions of our commission, by supplementing this third conclusion with that sentence proposed by Mr Beriz Belkić, which I defined when we put the motion to vote. Thank you very much. I'm going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. Information from the Council of Ministers on the realisation of the House's conclusion on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, which was to be prepared by 31.01.2005. Mrs. Finance promised to be here. Is there a lady? I am obliged to inform you that I have spoken to the Minister of Finance and Treasury and that I have been informed that she will provide us with information in the form of a letter she received from the Directorate for indirect opposition. The ladies aren't here, I don't know, please, I suggest we take a five-minute break, see what happens to the minister, let him know. I'm giving a five-minute break and I'm asking the case to inform Minister Marić to come to parliament. Have him come from the Council of Ministers' meeting. I'm asking the service to tell me if we have a quorum in the O.R.? [[PAUZA]] We continue to work, we move on to the 10th item of the agenda, it is the Council of Ministers' Information on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act to be prepared by 31.01.2005. We've had this information for two sessions so far. Every time we decided to ask the Council of Ministers for information. Until today, we have not received this information in writing, but it is the BiH Finance and Treasury Minister, Mrs Ljerka Marić. I invite her to submit information to Dom, ma'am,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17362	I welcome you all, and regarding this 10-ball statement, the situation is next. The Council of Ministers has not made a written report because it has not yet been received, the Council of Ministers has not reached an amendment and supplementation of the Law on the Transport of Products and Services and amending and supplementing the Act on Excises which are in the procedure, in such a way that the Management Board has adopted amendments and amendments to the laws, released them to entity parliaments. Yesterday in the Federal Commission, for example, these two laws were discussed for finance, and when the consent is obtained, that is, the entity's objections, it returns to the Governing Board, it goes to the Council of Ministers and then comes to our Commission for Finance and Budget, and this is the current situation related to the amendments and additions of the Transport Tax Act and the Excise Act. 81 As regards our obligation to develop a social programme, which needs to be implemented, from the date of entry into force of the VAT Act, we have reached a conclusion on the Council of Ministers on this issue in such a way that the Management Board, together with the unit of this EIPU, the Council of Ministers, will make this social programme which has economic indicators and which means it has binding elements related to entities and we have set a deadline today of 15 days, means that it also delivers the Board of Directors and the Management of its part of that report. This unit will deliver its share, in the meantime, calculations are being made together with the AMF, and I don't think we can be late, related to the creation of a social, initial proposal for a social programme, because I will inform you that, meanwhile, there are amendments and additions to the VAT Act which the Management Board proposes to move the period of application of the VAT Act to 01.01 next year, by proposing further amendments and additions to the obligation to register taxpayers that should start on 31.03, but because it was not possible to do so, we move for 01.07. and the period of registration of taxpayers by VAT. So, two activities go parallel, and I think it's a good thing you're warning us we're late, but we're still not that late. Most of the changes are ongoing and will soon be in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17363	Thank you, Madam Minister. I'm opening an oral hearing. Does anyone want to talk? Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, Mr. Selim Bešlagić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17364	I would briefly return here on the 10th point, and on this information, for you, so we were informed by the Management Board when they were present, there is much that the proposed amendments and additions to the Excise Act and the Sales Tax have been made. As far as RS is concerned, I am, the latest information was adopted, the amendment and the supplement was accepted. The rest is to agree with the federalan Paralment. If so, I ask you both as Minister of Finance and as a member of the Management Board by function, if you have consent, all, to refer it to the procedure as soon as possible so that we can consider and adequately respond to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17365	Thank you, Mr. Selim Bešlagić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17366	I would just like to point out one fact, I would ask the Ministry and the Council of Ministers to take over the role, to control the Directorate for indirect taxation in the execution and realization of these tasks, or to change something, because it seems to me to be the administration that indolently approaches a very important task. The task that has now been extended for 01.01.2006, but I think by 01.01.2006, they have so much to bring in sublegal acts that if they do not, they will require prolonging, introducing indirect taxation and 01.01.2006. So please, or this Parament, I don't know who, but it seems to me that they've given great authority to that institution without responsibility for what they're doing. 82 I draw attention, from so far all the elements that have been obliged to do so, they have not done so so far, all of them being managed by them to have the right to pass the law and not this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17367	I thank Mr. Bešlagić. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate, and I'm proposing a conclusion. First, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives takes note of the information submitted by Finance and Treasury Minister Ljerka Marić. And secondly, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliament tasks the Council of Ministers, without delay, to send laws on amendments to the Transport Tax Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Act to the parliamentary procedure. Can we vote on this? There is a comment on Mr. Križanović's conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17368	I'm really sorry I wasn't there when Mrs. Minister
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17369	We're only discussing conclusions. Do you have any objections to the conclusions, the suggestion of conclusions, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17370	I do, but I have to get started somehow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17371	You started by saying you were sorry you weren't when the minister spoke.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17372	Well, then I'll take this one, then I'll have to go with the conclusion we made at the last session. First, it is required by the Council of Ministers to provide written information, as long as it has arrived with the preparation of the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the BiH Excise Taxation Act, which will be the item of the agenda of the next session. We find there's no written report, no information. Secondly, the College of the House undertakes to communicate with the Council of Ministers and points to the problem that these two times already have, this issue cannot be debated at this House. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17373	What is the objection to my conclusions, the suggestion of my conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17374	The point is first, to find out that we didn't have written information and I suggest we don't accept this information from the Council of Ministers. Here, that's my objection to your suggestion of conclusions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17375	Okay, thanks. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, prepare to vote. We are voting on the proposal for conclusions that I have proposed. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 26 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has adopted these two conclusions that I have proposed. That's how we ended the 10th agenda. We're going to the 11th Minister's, thank you very much. I ask you, so as soon as possible, the laws in the parliamentary procedure, this is a question that will move in every House of Representatives session until it changes because we had an obligation until January 31st to change these laws, please. Moving to the 11th agenda, that's Ad.11. Information on the export licences issued or imports of arms and military equipment You have received the information delivered to the House on 16 March 2005. The information was discussed by the Joint Commission on Defence and Security Policy. You've received a report from the committee responsible. The Commission proposed to Dom to adopt the conclusion of the following content. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes expect the Federation of BiH Parliament to make a final decision, as soon as possible, on the transfer of competence over the dedicated industry, from the Federation's Ministry of Defence to the other competent civilian ministry, so that this process of penosa jurisdiction over the dedicated industry in BiH is fully in line with the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment. I'm opening a debate. Mr Miloš Jovanović, please. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17376	I see that means my discussion would refer to questions as well, but I can see I don't have anyone to answer. One who had time to read the report could see that among the 39 countries that BiH exported weapons is Iraq. And I see that there were bombs and grenades and infantry automatic weapons. Given everything that was happening at the Eagle Factory that we were in some way, whether it was a thought-out affair that in some way the factory was closed, that many people, that many people were being investigated, that it was about, to say, under the affair, a member of the BiH presidency from Republika Srpska, now I don't know whether it means abolished the arms embargo to Iraq or something else. I don't see it here, I see it means who can answer it, that's what I'd like to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17377	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17378	I would suggest another formulation of the conclusion. And obir we have one new fact, in the meantime, in relation to probably the period when the Commission was working, here's the RES, let them correct me. The OSC warned the resolution ministry that it should withdraw permits from producers unless this transfer of competence from the Federation Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of the Mining Industry, etc. is carried out. in the Federation. I would suggest that the Joint Commission and the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, not to expect Parliament, but to ask for a final decision within the next 15 days on the transfer of jurisdiction over the dedicated industry, otherwise the Federal Parliament will be held accountable for the disbursed permits that the relevant ministry is obliged to take under the mandate of the OSC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17379	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? If there is none of the MPs, then a representative of the ministry. Here you go, sir. I'd like you to just introduce yourselves for a stenogram. How, Dragiša Mekić, Assistant Minister for Foreign Trade and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17380	I would like to thank this, first of all, that this is standard information issued under the Export Act – imports of arms and military equipment because the Ministry is obliged to issue this information twice a year and since for now we are working on a manual database of 85 data, until we get new equipment that will be a donation, then we will respect that deadline twice a year, and until now once a year, we issue this information. I want to answer this question. Exports of weapons and military equipment are both imported and transited according to EU rules of conduct in the export of weapons. You have in the pirlogue rules of EU behaviour and there is related to exports to Iraq and criterion I which says, criteria I to respect international obligations, Member States... The Union shall be subject to specific sanctions laid down by the UN Security Council as well as those established by the Community. So we must respect the sanctions of the UN, the EU and the OSC. At the time, Iraq was under sanctions of the UN Security Council, since it is no longer under sanctions, so we are open to free arms exports. Normally, EU rules of conduct are observed, i.e. the end-user is particularly seen. I can tell you that the export of weapons as you can see there were no bombs, grenades, it was just infantry weapons and some ammunition. And it did all the tests and the weapons went to the Iraqi provisional government. So these forces are new ones that have been temporarily established.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17381	Thank you very much for this information. If no one ever answers for you, Mr. Sead Avdić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17382	I'm just saying that this is the only area in BiH that has a 3:1 benefit of exports compared to imports, and that this is an unused opportunity, really BH economy. We can, unfortunately, it's military equipment and military technique, etc. But it's amazing to export tanks all the way from Austria to the United States, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17383	Thank you very much. I think things are clear, I think that, I can go ahead, come on, and what's suggested is all, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17384	I agree, this is the only area where we have export-import 3:1 and the tendency is that this imbalance in our favor is even greater. However, this is a very serious question, as Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović has asked, we have also received a letter from the Deputy High Representative and EUFOR Commander voiced disdain over the failure to transfer competences and is even recommending that it be recommended that the ministry be withdrawn from the production permit means those who did not respect the obligation to transfer powers. So we can get into a situation to stop the work of one Igman and all the others. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17385	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? We can therefore, say, adopt this information with the report of our commission and with the conclusion. Since this is an undisputed issue of civil authorities in accordance with the Export and Import Act of Military Equipment, Arms, is that right, Mr. Mekiću? That instead of saying that we expect, we are asking the Federation Parliament to carry out the transfer of these powers in an urgent manner, as soon as possible. So we would like to accept Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović's practical suggestion, please. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17386	It just seems to me that the formulation still needs to be a little bit sharper. In a way, we try to mobilize or mobilize into the right of urgency. I would suggest that within 15 days, or if that is some reasonable deadline, perhaps a month, and that otherwise the Federal Parliament will be held accountable for the consequences that will follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17387	Well, we can't just say to Azra that they will be held accountable.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17388	I suggest it, and you... put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17389	I mean I'm trying to formulate, and I could now say this, here I suggest the conclusion that it is not, here I am so surprised and angry, I didn't know that this wasn't done believe me, and I could suggest even more stringent things than the things you've suggested, but I suggest what will be realized, that what I put on behalf of all of us who make a decision here is realized. So that's the problem. Nothing else is the problem. What does it mean that the Federation's Parliament will bear the consequences? Which means, which I have here and all of you together to the Federation Parliament when it comes to the conventions, God Bog we do. Here, you can suggest a conclusion, let's see what's being realized.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17390	I just want to say that this Parliament should not bear the consequences because it is an implantation of the state law and it is an obligation on the Federal Parliament and this very formulation, in some ways it points to the seriousness of the Federal Parament that should be affected unless it comes to this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17391	What consequences? 87
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17392	Mr. Džaferović, then you have not listened carefully to my discussion or the presentation,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17393	I've listened well to you, what consequences?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17394	If you want details, I'll tell you. It is about the production of arms and military equipment, i.e. the withdrawal of EUFOR permits and orders, the OSC, etc. to withdraw the permits precisely because the Federal Parliament failed to comply
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17395	But you're talking about the consequences of the Federation Parliament, what consequences of the Federation Parliament can we prescribe, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17396	We do not prescribe the consequences, let the Federal Parliament be prepared to bear the consequences that may follow because it has not done its duty.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17397	Here you go, Mrs. Palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17398	I just want to join what Mrs. Hadžiahmetović is talking about. Consequences are that people will lose their licenses for production, for traffic, for everything else, people will lose their jobs. Let the Federal Parliament be aware of that fact, this is how much I understand and how much I understand it on the Commission. So, instead of a coincidence, let's say that the Federal Parliament will be responsible for what people won't do.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17399	Here, that's something else, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17400	I think even the president's proposal was a little bit sharper than our jurisdiction here, but here, I was ready to support it. In fact, I can't say in this way that the Federal Parliament is not aware of its decisions. I mean, really, that conclusion would actually mean that Parliament in the Federation isn't aware, and I'm sure people are aware and they won't consciously do this. So, completely conscious people won't transfer this kind of jurisdiction and, of course, that they're aware and the consequences and there's no need for us to warn them about it. Especially since we do not have, therefore, there is no principle of 88 subordination or jurisdiction over jurisdiction etc. between this parliament and the parliaments of the entities. In the sense that I am closest to the proposal that he gave to the chairman, so that we cannot say as a commission we express expectations but that we can ask, we can ask the Federal Parliament to do so, with what although we can't, unfortunately, or fortunately, it doesn't matter, someone looking at one, someone else, do anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17401	Please, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17402	Well, here's the thing. I need another detail. I completely agree with your argument, but permission will be taken away by the State Department of Foreign Trade, because it is competent under state law. So it's not like we're completely out of it. Here is a mistake, crucial that the Federal Parliament failed to comply within the deadline foreseen by the entity law with the state, the state ministry will therefore have to react and the consequences will be borne by the Federation. And I am just because of the seriousness and complexity of this whole process and the consequences that I can come to, I suggest that a little bit sharper conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17403	I don't mind, thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, I fully understood you and very well-intentioned you, just trying now as a lawyer to make it into what you put on, I repeat the signature behind it, that it fits the law, that it fits the Constitution, and that people don't laugh at us when they get that paper. So that's the problem. And I said, therefore, I am very unhappy with the fact that the Federal Parliament has failed to fulfil its legal obligation and if I could express them in a way that would be very, very strict. That's why I think we can do the next formulation, so we can finish the job. So first we adopt the Information on Exports and Imports, then we accept the report of our competent commission, with this conclusion proposed by our commission not as proposed by the Commission but as can be said, here I am now thinking in the meantime and trying to put it in the context of all of this that we've been talking about. So this is going to adopt the House of Peoples, right? Both at home, so that the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly in this case are the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we have the right to ask the Federation of BiH Parliament to fulfil its legal obligation. This is the legal obligation of the Federation's Parliament to export and import military equipment and weapons, right, Mr. Mekiću? So, to fulfill his legal obligation. Therefore, it requires that it fulfil its legal obligation and, as soon as possible, carry out the transfer of competence over the dedicated industry with the Federation Ministry of Defence to another competent civilian ministry so that this process of transfer of competence over the dedicated industry in BiH is completed and thus fully in line with the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment. Then we can say a new sentence. So this is to fulfill your leeway obligation. And the second sentence is that by not acting under this law, the Federal Parliament should be its responsibilities, responsibilities, and we could do it a little bit further, but the accent is that we demand the fulfilment of the legal obligation and that we make it clear that not meeting this legal obligation is the responsibility of the Federal Parliament. And that's how we jammed this part of the deal and strengthened this conclusion and incorporated it into both the Constitution and the Export and Import Act of Military Equipment and Arms. Is this how we can accept this? I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. In the first attitude and second, responsibility for not fulfilling the obligation, that's right. We warn that they take responsibility for not fulfilling the consequences, excellent. Thank you, Beriz. 26 for, against no one, a abstention of anyone, a sufficient entity majority, we have therefore adopted a conclusion that we have accepted the Information on Exports and Imports of Military Equipment and Weapons. Secondly, we accepted information from our commission with a modified conclusion in which under 1. We ask the Federal Parliament to fulfil its legal obligation to transfer from the Ministry of Defence to the Civil Ministry and 2. They warned the Federal Parliament that in the event of not executing this, he would be responsible for all the consequences that could arise from not transferring this jurisdiction from the military ministry to this civilian ministry. Thank you very much. We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's Ad.12. The report on the work of the Finance and Budget Commission for 2004 submitted to the House the report on its work in 2004. You got the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the report. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as far as I see it, unanimously, is, with 30 votes in favour, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, accepted the report on the work of the Finance Commission and the 2004 budget. And I call on the other committees of Parliament to submit the draft reports according to the Rules of Procedure. 90 We move to the 13th point of the agenda, that's Ad.13. The report of the Research Commission for the Determination of Donor Resources You have received the Report of the Research Commission of this House, I draw your attention that in the report the Commission proposes to adopt the conclusions contained in four points. I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17404	Gentlemen, I think the Commission's report is quite clear and paints the entire course of work so far, from the moment it was formed on 13 October 2003 and everything it was doing in the meantime. These four conclusions are, I think, acceptable to the House of Representatives. The first, to oblige the Council of Ministers, to submit a report, no later than 60 days, on the total donations that BiH received from '96 to the day of the report. The second conclusion, that it obliges the Council of Ministers to organise, within 30 days at the latest, a representation of the database on the Internet address, so you are attached, to present it to the MPs of the House of Representatives, means here to us. Under three, it is suggested to all BiH institutions and bodies whose jurisdiction is control, legality and financial operations and crime control, and above all, the Office of Auditors at all levels in BiH, the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of SIPA, the OSCE Security Agency, the Ministry of Interior at all levels and prosecutors to pay particular attention to the control of the way donations are spent. And lastly, I draw attention to the MPs, that this fourth conclusion, that after the realization of this first and second conclusion, the House of Representatives will take a position on whether the Commission to determine the spending of donor funds will continue its work in full capacity, or whether the control and control obligations of the spending of donor funds will be taken by the Council of Ministers after they have provided us with all of this as requested. And in this way, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly could, have a supervisory control function if the Council of Ministers would accept that it could provide this record, base and all that was actually the mandate of this Commission of Investigation. So I suggest that these conclusions be adopted. When we get all this information we need here in these conclusions, then in that case, the House of Representatives will make a final decision based on the information we get. Whether it will take over the Council of Ministers or we will leave this to the Commission to continue to do so, performs some supervisory 91 functions in some part or will actually be taken over by Parliament and the Commission will stop working. But until then, I think we should respect this, and respect these conclusions that will allow us to reach that final stage in our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17405	Thank you very much. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. We are voting on the Commission's report, of course with these conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour of, 1 against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, accepted the Commission's report on the establishment of donor spending. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda, that's Ad.14. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, improving the material and organisational skills of the Prosecutor's Office in 2004, and the state of crime in BiH in 2004 Do we have anyone in front of the Prosecutor's Office here? I would suggest if my colleague agrees, this is an important item of the agenda, that we still have a reporter here for the agenda point, and that we leave it for the next session, to get off this session, so that we, therefore, have a mandatory presence here. Do you agree? Vote, prepare for the vote, who is for this proposal? Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives unanimously, as I see it, with 30 votes for, without, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority, has accepted that we take this point off the agenda today and that this is the point at the next, first next session with a letter of course to those who are obliged to defend the report, to attend the session of the BiH House of Representatives. Thank you very much. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda, that's Ad.15. A report on the BiH Election Commission's 2004 report on the 2004 work report you received. The report discussed the Constitutional and Legal Commission at yesterday's session. You received a report, here are the president of the Election Commission of BiH, a member of the Electoral Commission. I welcome them on behalf of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and open the debate. 92 Who wants to talk? Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17406	I thank the chairman and welcome the members of the Electoral Commission. As I read this report, I have noticed several shortcomings, or I have several objections to this report. Of course, in full respect of the real and respectful effort to write a quality report such as this report, I must conclude that when it comes to the part that is talking about funding political parties, I have found nowhere to look at the decision of the High Representative, which limits the funding of certain political parties in 2004, including this one, or not among others, but seems to me to be the HDZ and the SDS. Of course, that question was not decided by the Election Commission, but in any case, such a question and the gravity of the decision in relation to some of the issues being treated here in the area of funding deserved at least a review. When it comes to the financing of political parties, I must say that in the media I have read many irregularities in financing SDP as a political party and I have not found here in the report that the Election Commission has dealt with this, especially when it comes to rent revenues, means what this party has and which are contrary to me, at least that's how I read in the media, contrary to certain legal regulations. What is also my remark on the work of the Election Commission, are the local elections in the section relating to the selection of the mayors of Gradiška and Derventa municipalities, i.e. above all, I mean Gradiška where unfortunately the electoral process has been injured and where the Election Commission, by my deep conviction, is of course very difficult to find evidence for this, but by my deep conviction it has made it possible to establish or enable an election result which is not the true meaning of the word as it is shown. For this reason, therefore, I cannot support the report on the work of the Election Commission for 2004. When it comes to the 2005 work plan, I found here a certain one, the intention to say, interrelational and amendments to the Election Law, where the Election Commission seems unnecessarily eager to direct future amendments to the Election Law. I don't think that this is necessary to the Electoral Commission and that these are issues that should not be done by the Election Commission, but by one who proposes amendments to the Election Law or possibly a working group mentioned by the Electoral Commission at point 12. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17407	I thank Mr. Novaković. I'm sorry, so I was very unaware of you that when I said this report was being discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, it was written to me here, probably in the expectation that it would be discussed on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, but it didn't seem to have been discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. However, it is not mandatory to consider the Constitutional and Legal 93 Commission, but here, I apologize to you and I want to tell you that this report was the agenda of yesterday's session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as far as I know but did not reach that point, or was it not the agenda? So it wasn't discussed by the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Please, who wants to speak further? Please just for a moment if you can speak. Mr. Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17408	I share the view that the Constitutional Commission should pass this report, although it is solidly composed, thorough, etc. However, I still think we should pass the Constitutional Commission. I have some things in particular when it comes to election campaigns, control of spending, etc. It seems to me that some of the parties are spending a lot of money. The question is raised, etc. I think that's where I need to see some things. I would therefore suggest that this return to the Constitutional Commission to consider and make its proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17409	Please, uh, I think we can, so we can end up slowly discussing this topic so we don't waste any time, not making an empty walk. It is, therefore, a very important report, very important BiH institutions and I, as far as I can see here, already express certain courts in terms of support or not support. It wouldn't be good if this House didn't back the report, so let me tell you right now, that's my opinion. Such a valid and significant institution that we are trying to do, or we are in charge of the organisation and functioning of this institution, and it would not be good for this House to leave a signal in the sense of not accepting the Report. I'm asking you to take care of this fact. What might be good, the College delivered this report to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, I have now checked through the Home Secretary, but we have not received any reports from the Constitutional and Legal Commission. And, I suggest, that we pay our attention to this issue, that we do not make assessments like this in terms of acceptance or acceptance, because, I think, by dawn, this report cannot be accepted, having the importance of this institution and the responsibility of us here, and so I suggest, that perhaps these issues that are now a product of reading or possible and misunderstandings are whether, but I don't know before that on the Constitutional and Legal Commission, we get the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and then we go to the House of Representatives' session. That would be my suggestion. Given, I say again, the importance, but here, I have a registered debate. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović and Mr. Gligorić have been showing up for a long time, but here, you'll give the lady a head start, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17410	I'm not here as a lady 94.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17411	But you're still a lady, no matter what you're not here as a lady, but as an MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17412	You're not giving me an advantage probably because of that, I thank you anyway. So I feel the need, regardless of our statement on the proposed conclusion, but I feel the need for this one to react to some expressed attitudes that seem to me to no longer like someone's picture in the mirror. If the mirror, if the image is ugly, it's not the mirror that's wrong. So, some data that may not be liked here doesn't necessarily mean that the report is bad, it's bad at work, there may be some parliamentary parties, I think I'm just talking about some of the attitudes that have been heard here. Or, say, referencing or not paying enough attention in the report on media records. I am not sure that the Electoral Commission or any other state institution that is seriously working should be managed by some of the data it finds in the media, because we are perfectly well aware that democracy is a rather stretching thing, especially in the media. And that you should always take care of who's behind some media, etc. I'm saying this more in favor of going in favour, if it's really going in the direction of locating this report and discussing it on some committee, whether it's utavno-pravan-legal or some other. In this regard, I would suggest that, even then, someone from the Election Commission, or members of the Election Commission, might be invited, if anyone has any issues, to resolve them immediately at the commission stage, so that people do not come to the Parliament's session again and conclude that they will come back here for the report. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to support this report and how but I'd like to conclude on this report or suggest some conclusions on this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17413	Thank you, Mrs. Hadžiahmetović. Mr. Gligorić, please. Mr. Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17414	Thank you, sir, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17415	Mr. Chairman, first of all, let me say that I support your proposal and I don't think we should go into the debate now, if we're going to discuss it at one of the next sessions after the Constitutional and Legal Commission. But since I've already signed up for the replica, I have to tell Reverend Azra that a very serious state institution so seriously states in the media is checking. You believe me a very serious institution, serious allegations of such a nature check. So that's why I said it. I expect him to check it out. Here, perhaps even until the session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. Thank you. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17416	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Azra Hadžiahmetović, reply to the replica, please wait for Mr Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17417	I understand you perfectly but I have no doubt that if it is a serious institution and serious allegations, the Election Commission has not already done so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17418	Great, thank you very much. Mr. Gligorić, he'll be brief, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17419	For what Mr. Novaković is, since you have also suggested that we go to the committee in charge of constitutional law in this case, and that this will be the subject of the debate and what Professor Kunić said, too, to end up on that commission. But you said yourself that it shouldn't be in that sense that our guests who are here may have a negative conclusion. That's why I want to say, on behalf of the club, I want to commend this report, that this report has been done both methodologically and in substance very correctly. Both the report and the work plan of the BiH Election Commission and that the meaning, perhaps minor things in terms of some clarifications, will be the subject of this debate. It is a report that is one of the best reports that has come to this Parliament, and therefore I had a great need to commend it. It's you from the SDS that I exaggerated, you exaggerate it yourself, but you should always commend something, and you know that I criticize you and others, but if someone did it correctly, then it's professional work.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17420	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Miloš Jovanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17421	You see, I have a little longer discussion and I wouldn't discuss it if I were going to go to the Constitutional-Plain Commission. I mean, this is what I'm saying, but I don't want this one to take up time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17422	Okay, thank you. Please, I will now give my word to the President of the Election Commission of BiH, Mr Vehid Šehić, please. I'd ask Vehid to be as brief as possible. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17423	I'll be very brief. I'm sure the Election Commission can't comment on the High Representative's decisions. Since some things are being respected here, whether this Parliament adopts this report or not, I will resign soon, when I finish a part of the job. But, Mr. Novaković, I ask you, I may have broken the Law of Elections, allowing Mr. Dunjić or Dugić to carry out all the insights to make sure the Election Commission was doing the right thing or not. There are witnesses of my colleagues, and I wouldn't want anything to be imputed to the Commission that absolutely doesn't stand. I agree with the financial reports, but we only managed to complete the Audit Department 10 days ago, so that he could work and check the financial reports. One man can't check everything. These are some objective circumstances, but I would pray that when you talk about someone and when you insinuate something, support it because I am not the man who will suffer it and for Dugić yours I have stopped to check everything. There was a complaint in court and all the decisions of the Electoral Commission were confirmed, so I'd like you to keep an eye on that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-04-12-0.u17424	I thank the President of the Election Commission. So, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I suggest, therefore, please, that this report, since the statements for the report have already begun, against the report, I simply wouldn't, could hardly stand behind this Parliament's acceptance of this report. I believe that the report is right away to tell you good, but I am looking at the climate in Parliament, and I think it would be good to have some things made up within the Constitutional and Legal Commission before saying the report itself. And, therefore, I propose that we refer this to the Constitutional and Legal Commission, which will also call on representatives of the BiH Election Commission and then report on the election commission report with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission to come here to the House. I think we have to show here, of course, in all other cases, but I think it's special here, because this House has jurisdiction and it can be freely praised that it has done a lot when it comes to the functioning of the BiH Election Commission. I put my proposal to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Thank you very much. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 30 votes in favour, without against and with two abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, decided that the report on the work of the BiH Election Commission was first discussed within the Constitutional and Legal Commission, to which both the president and members of the Electoral Commission will be called, and then the Election Commission report, with a report from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, will be delivered here in parliamentary procedure. That's how we ended the 15th agenda. And, when it comes to item 16 of the agenda, respected colleagues and colleagues, our Constitutional and Legal Commission is not, thank you, pretty President of the Election Commission and members of the 97 Election Commission, I will see you again. Our Constitutional and Legal Commission didn't finish the job on this agenda point. They started doing the job but they didn't finish and I have a promise that it will be completed by the next House of Representatives session. This way, there's nothing left to do but to take off this item of the agenda, and to make it the subject of the next session. Do you accept this proposal? Prepare to vote. Vote now. Just stay put for a while, I have information very important to you. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly has accepted the conclusion that this 16th point will be one of the points of the next session, the first next session, with 29 votes for, without prejudice, one abstention and as long as I have managed to see the entity majority. Have a seat, please. So even with a sufficient entity majority. Eh, this is how we exhausted today's 54th session of the House of Representatives. I spoke on several occasions today about the need to hold the next session of the House of Representatives and it seems to me that at one point I said she would be 22. We've been in the College the whole time we've been here talking about when this session is gonna be, and we've agreed that it's still a day early, so it's gonna be 21. College, 18, travels on a return visit to the Albanian Parliament and will be there on 19th and 20th evenings, if Bog wants to return here to BiH, so that we can have a 21st session. So you can get ready. You will receive a call from today, the next 55th session will be held on Thursday, April 21st, 2005 at 10:00 p.m. and a session of these extended colleges and other bodies will be common, just before that session. So on Thursday, April 21, 2005, if Bog does, live and be healthy. The session was completed at 6:00 p.m.
