ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16744	... gentlemen, honourable MPs, distinguished guests, I am opening the 53rd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. According to the section report, we currently have 26 MPs in the O.R. It should be borne in mind that certain committees, such as the Commission for Human Rights, are also sitting together with individual members of the Constitutional and Legal Commission. They're here in the O.R., in the Parliament building, and they'll join us each. We have a quorum for valid work and valid decision-making. Today they announced a leave: Mr. Mehmed Suljkanović and Mrs. Nadžida Mlaćo. I have no notice regarding other MPs. I expect them to join the session of the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. They're probably used to us starting with a 15-minute delay. We need to learn to start working at the time we schedule a session. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as regards the draft agenda, which you received in the call for today's session, I would like to inform you that the proposal for a bill on debt, debt and guarantees of BiH has been removed, for the reason that the responsible Finance and Budget Commission has requested an extension of the deadline for considering this proposal at the commission stage, as we have been informed directly before the Commission's session of amendments, so it is necessary to allow the legislator to deliver an opinion on the amendments tabled. This morning we held a session of the College and a session of the Colleges in an extended composition, where, as usual, we analysed the proposal for the agenda and in the extended college, it was practically downloaded only this point I was talking about for the reasons I was talking about, so that the agenda remained practically the same except for this one in the invitation to the 6th item of the agenda, which refers to the Proposal for a Law on Debtation, Debt and Guarantees of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16745	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, on the agenda, I would first like to conclude that under point 9. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act, which should have been prepared by 31.1.2005, although we have not adopted the minutes we will adopt, I hope very quickly. In the minutes we received, to remind you, the first conclusion is to prepare for the amendment and addition of the Bosnia and Herzegovina excise duty law, will be the agenda point at the next session of the House of Representatives. We have already had some activities on the subject, so it was expected not only to be this information on the agenda, but also a debate on the changes and additions of the Excise Law, in line with Parliament's conclusion. The second conclusion last time was. That the Council of Ministers is asked to provide written information, in connection with the preparation of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act, that this issue is considered urgent to resolve. So far, we haven't received any written material on this agenda point. I would like to, before we move to the agenda, to eventually clear up, so, if we're going to discuss this agenda point, since we don't have written material, and when you clear it up to your colleague Džafrović, I would ask you to, if we have this agenda point, then under this point of the agenda, I don't mind, that the Council of Ministers informs us and the decision made by the switcher, about the suspension of the Interstate Free Trade Agreement. So, I think that today Parliament should be informed on the agenda of one of the immediately large, political and international political and international political and international legal and economic decisions, which is entering into a lot of things that should not be skipped today. And, I would therefore ask you, Mr. Chairman, I think it is better to have information from the Council of Ministers on the agenda, towards a special point after this, or within this, therefore, part of the agenda of the Council of Ministers' temporary suspension of the Free Trade Decision. I leave you, therefore, for the sake of will, if there is a consensus, the point is that, however, we get information today, which I'm afraid is capital policy decisions that can't take us far. That's one thing. Second Mr. Chairman, we are all aware that an intensive debate is under way in international circles on the appointment of a new high representative. Thank Bog, this one's leaving like everyone's gonna leave, but this one's getting closer to leaving. As far as I'm aware, official institutions aren't having any discussion about when this one will go and who will come and where this new one is from and what it's called, what it will do, etc. In other words, in parallel with the appointment of a new High Representative, we are well aware that there are large debates on whether or not the mandate, status, authority, etc. will be changed. High Representative. That, unfortunately, is being led past the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I would therefore ask you 3, I don't know how else to do it, we have prepared a resolution in the SDP MPs' Club, the relationship between BiH institutions, according to the date of appointment of a new high representative of the international community. We gave it to protocol. I'll give you, the resolution is very short. I'd like her to be put on the agenda today. I don't mind when it's put on the agenda to conclude what's common, but when we get to that, it's good that this resolution doesn't experience the fate of other resolutions, that we discuss it when the new High Representative comes to us. If we say anything about it now, we have a chance of affecting it. Simply put, you will see and I would like to be delivered to MPs, if the agenda is adopted, the resolution goes towards having the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and this Parliament involved in the appointment of a new High Representative and to be involved in the debates on whether and how to change the mandate, namely the powers of the High Representative, and this is what I am saying, Mr President, in the function of strengthening Bosnian Herzegovina's statehood in the context of European integration and in the context of the partnership relationship, which is claimed to exist. I'll deliver it to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16746	Did you finish?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16747	I'm done. God forbid I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16748	It was the end of your efforts, everything else will be a service effort, the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina that comes to you, to take that from you, that documentation you intended to submit here at the table, where the College is sitting and we will continue to do with it as the Rules of Procedure tells us. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? If no one ever answers their word again, I'm the one who concludes the debate on the agenda. Now things are like this. When it comes to the 9th day of today’s session, that is, point 8. On the call, that was point nine. It's all justifiable. We have concluded the debate on the agenda. Now, Mr. Jović, I've asked a few questions, but here I am reopening the debate on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16749	I can give up on this, but I think it's all about us. Well, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16750	Go ahead, I've reopened the debate. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16751	The Honorable President, distinguished fellow MPs, for a recent performance on federal television, one show, by the chief administrator or chairman of the Federal Television Management Board, has been publicly invited to come to the building and lynch people from our parliament. I propose that today Parliament draws a conclusion on the condemnation and federal television and such performance by the President of the Federal Television Management Board. A large number of you here have been informed of this, and if not, I can explain it and beyond, but in short, the topic was, should be the subject of the law on the rights and obligations of MPs. At least the show talked about it, but was dictated and prepared by the Federal Television Administration for condemning the work of MPs and throwing away their work and their lives. I personally experienced it, and I would suggest that today's work of people in federal television, mainly its editor of this show, because, before that show was recorded, it could be kicked out of that part of the call for citizens to come with baseball bats and beat out representatives in front of parlament, and I don't know if there is any more, I know that in the last century, it was... how the process of throwing out parliamentarians through windows was called, someone was coming back to those paths, at a time when Europe didn't look like today, today, and by the way, it seems to me that everything and persistently these forces are saying that they are for Europe, and they would come to the bats of legally elected people beating. For these reasons, in order to protect the dignity of this home, I suggest a sentence, a conclusion, that we condemn this work of the editorial policy of Federal Television and a person called President of the Federal Television Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16752	Thank you. Who else wants to talk about the agenda? Mr. Gligorić answered his word, so you'll get the word Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16753	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I, too, answered first of all to ask my colleague Jović not to put this proposal on the agenda. I think there is another way, and if with any individual statement from anyone in BiH, otherwise we can resolve this dispute, and not to drag Parliament into it and we open up the controversy about people from the media or otherwise create an unnecessary situation, because I'm afraid it can outgrown and gain some other connotation, which would not be good for this parliament. I can understand and share Mr. Jović's opinion, in the sense that some things are inappropriate, etc. but to raise it to Parliament level, it gives quite one other tone, gives seriousness to all of it and gives in reality the cause and the other perhaps not well-intentioned to... to put this parliament in a sense of such polemics within the public and, therefore, I would ask to withdraw that proposal or if he does not want to withdraw, I would ask, of course, the MPs not to support it. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16754	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16755	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for hearing me say this, Mr. Jović, because I think this is an entirely inappropriate way to involve Parliament in the dialogue in the show where Mr. Jović participated in his own will, with the man he participated in. If you lose your arguments in public debate with someone in public, then you don't need to lose when you lose in that public debate, because... it doesn't defend attitudes, that you invite the entire Parliament to be your lawyer. What Mr. Jović said is, it's completely unargumented and there are no elements from which we could conclude something like this. I have to say that this would be a direct violation of the elementary principles on which public service exists, that's one thing. And secondly, I propose, if it comes to such a conclusion that, as our response to this debate, Parliament is to conclude that it is to be expelled from the procedure of the Law on the Privileges of MPs, because it is a direct cause for this
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16756	I would ask MPs not to have dialogue with each other while discussions continue. I'm begging you, you'll get all the words, please. Go on, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16757	I thank Mr. Chairman, and thank Mr. Zorić for showing in an appropriate way what he thinks about what I'm saying. I must say, it seems to me that my colleague Novaković and I were in a similar debate on television. The reason was the same, if I wasn't wrong, Mr. Novaković, this law on the privileges of MPs, and I said at the time that, as far as I'm concerned, if such a law were passed, so I said in person, so it couldn't be cut up without being cut. I said that if the law adopted on the privileges of MPs, which gives MPs pensions more monthly than the annual pension of an average psalmist, I have now said for the first time publicly, that this would be a cause and that I would participate with other people in calling the people before Parliament that if I should get out of Parliament those who pass such a law. So you can know that I really think, if Parliament adopts such a shameful law, then people should come to Parliament and give us a democratic lecture in accordance with the Constitution of this country, peacefully, democratically, and repeat without baseball bats. So, I'm building on a baseball bat for one simple reason, which is... 6 The intervention is based on a proposal for a agenda to attack a participant in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16758	Please, I will not allow this kind of work to be done in Parliament. Please, nice. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. We have a few replicas. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr Miloš Jovanović, then Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16759	Mr. President, I'm surprised to you that you didn't interrupt the honourable representative, because here again and again, he's a liar. For these reasons, I think you should have interrupted such a shameful performance by one of the MPs, which is talking about the removal of counsel. Sir, do you know what you said? Legally elected men to come here mass to cast out which you will lead, and you represent in this House. It's the humiliation of this country and this parliament that can't go any further. That's one thing. I haven't said a word about what that show was, as you've brought out here today a series of unobstructed, and now I know where all the lies that are being told to the MPs and the lies that OHR made are from, where the kitchen and what the television wanted. I didn't say a word about the law. And, one more thing, I admire myself for how great I am and that pulen of yours massaged intellectually on television. Your pauper stayed embarrassed for the rest of his life because he's not an intellectual, and I want to tell you the same thing. I condemn the misdemeanor, because we have people in this country's court who have undermined BiH, and that's how they're accused, and there hasn't been anyone on the show, president of the Management Board of Television. I don't know how he got on that show. I can see where he was sent from now on. I didn't ask that question either, and I don't care. Everyone on TV has a right. It's just his private television, he's on that TV every other day and let him have it, so people pay him well so he's 30 million in losses, while RS TV is doing a positive job. It's the find of the Reviszione house. I wasn't talking about his salary, which he attributed to us. He's got four times my salary, but it's not the subject of today's speech, and I didn't want to talk about it at all. He's got four times as much pay as we are and he's talking about protecting social strata. I didn't say anything about that. The person publicly recorded the show, the second is that it was directly in the programme, but he came with the intention of calling BiH citizens, physically using baseball bats to beat legally elected people. It's the collapse of the system. For these reasons, I called upon one sentence to condemn such an act and nothing else. And about the content of the law I could do with a gentleman about lies that have been broken for an hour... a complete lie.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16760	Please nice, I'm not going to let under the firm's proposal to include something in the agenda, we're actually doing the agenda. This happens all the time in Parliament. I'll demand, if this comes up on the agenda, then we'll discuss it the way it started here. 7 You have only the possibility of short interventions, for short, as it is called replicas and yes, for incorrect allegations, it is, and I will not allow discussion of the essence as if the item of the agenda was included. So you know. Wait, Mr. Lagumdžija, you'll get your word. You'll get your word. I saw you, great. Well, you don't have to keep your hand up. Great, if you'd like to go as long as you want to hold your hand like that. Mr. Momčilo Novaković. You'll get your word. Please, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16761	Madam Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, I just thought I'd put in a reproof because he allowed the debate to open on something that wasn't on the agenda. So, the debate, and Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Lagumdžija, is inappropriate because we didn't put this point on the agenda, and if we put it on the agenda, then of course there is such an opportunity to discuss it. I'm really not going to talk about Mr. Lagumdžija's discussion, because it's not worth it. So it's not even worth listening to here. A man must listen when he sits here. So I have no intention of replicating anything there, I only sincerely hope that Mr. Lagumdžija will present his tax returns to the public, or the revenues for the past year. I do, because mine will be public that his too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16762	Thank you. So Mr. Novaković, I'm the only one here all the time, and if it were the way I wanted it to be, then there certainly wouldn't be this kind of debate. This is a regular practice, and I have to tell you that I don't accept your reproof that you have given me in the way of holding a session, because I've been trying all along, but I can't. The first matter is a business mess. When I begin to shorten discussions, then we revote, I declare myself like this or something, to qualify in an inappropriate way, and I simply invite you, you are Parliament together, I am 1 through 42 of this Parliament, to behave in this way. And I said that it is only normal and business to act by putting forward a draft agenda, the MP has the right to say whether he agrees or disagrees with the draft agenda, but very briefly not getting into the essence of things. It's just a stretching category. It is subject to interpretation and we all need to interpret it so that it should be really very, very short without getting into the essence of things. And basically we'll get into things then if we say it's a part of the agenda. And we're not going in unless we say it's part of the agenda. Mr. Vinko Zorić. Here you go. You'll get it right after the gentleman. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16763	I'm also called when you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16764	Please, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16765	So, I just wanted to correct an incorrect allegation. Mr Lagumdžija said on several occasions that it should be withdrawn from the procedure of law on the privileges of MPs, I did not get materials for this law and I do not think that such a law is at all in the process.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16766	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16767	This was a debate on the agenda. Three people called me and thank you for eventually letting me speak cumulatively. The people know that as a law on the privileges of MPs. The other thing is he's called different. We need to tell people who chose us so they know what we're talking about. As for Mr. Jović, I haven't told a single lie in my conversion. You can take a monotogram and see. What is amazing is that Mr Jović is asking to be defended by Parliament after he told us here that he had butchered a man there. So, great, great. Well, I guess you thought I was intellectually defending you, not baseball bat. Of course. So since you massacred him, you're asking us to defend you. Okay. I want to say I'm proud of what I said and what I'm against that law and I repeat here so there won't be manipulation afterwards. If you did, I said [[discussion – Jović-Lagumdzija]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16768	Please, Mr. Jović, please, Mr. Jović, Mr. Lagumdžija. Point, please point, the draft agenda point is to include a conclusion that will condemn this show or I don't know how, sentence.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16769	And we need to know what the show was about to condemn 9
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16770	If we're going to, we know what it's about. We'll discuss the agenda, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please help me bring the session into progress.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16771	...to me Mr. Džaferović was told I was lying, very clearly I want to repeat
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16772	Well, you've already answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16773	Wait a minute, let me tell you again, what's more, let me repeat and I say and repeat if such a law is passed I will invite people to come democratically before Parliament and express their will towards this Parliament. You'll find out which one. As far as tax returns are concerned, I have finished everything, as far as tax returns are concerned, my tax return is for Mr Džaferović on the Electoral Commission website, and I urge you to reach the conclusion that tax returns are made on Parliament's website and that you are officially asking tax administrations to give all taxpayers tax returns, so that you can see who pays, who doesn't pay this kind of tax pay. Because I've been sitting in this parliament for nine years and I've never been paid in this House for nine years, and I'm very willing to put the tax returns on the agenda, and I'd also ask you to put Mr. Novaković's horsepower on the table and if it is necessary to conclude that the law on the seizure of the property is being put on the agenda so that we can sort it out a little bit more politely.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16774	Thank you. We have, for his word, I beg you, I urge you to conclude the debate on the agenda and begin to plead. I know exactly what we should do now. Look, I once concluded a debate on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16775	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I just want to help us get out of this, not get on with this, and that's why I want to say next. The fact that the media, not only federal television, but other media are working in similar ways. That's true. I watched that show when it was Mr. Miro. 10 However, I would also suggest to Mr Miri that we do not give it as a point of the agenda for reasons to show that this Parliament has a level and value that is not worthy of such a policy of the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16776	Of course. Thank you. Mr. Nikola Šprić asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16777	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I don't think it takes tension around the agenda to tell a man why, whether it's a point or not, he has to explain it. Otherwise, they'd just turn into mere voters and there'd be no debate. Parliament's goal is to discuss and eventually come to a harmonised agenda. What I think is that it is not good, so it is not good, it is not politically wise to bring Parliament into arbitration when it comes to the media. Although, let's say I respect the right of the MPs to seek Parliament's conclusion. That was my position within the College. But you see, we're not looking, so what bothers me is that we're not looking for Parliament's conclusion because we had the other day that the Orthodox priest and his deputy were beaten with baseball bats. We MPs seem only ready to defend ourselves. We're here to defend the citizens, to make laws. I was expecting that conclusion today, and I didn't want to make a political statement. That's why I don't think it's politically wise to judge neither the show nor the television or the editors. It is good that we are all doing our job in accordance with the law, especially that this parliament is not the founder of this television and thought to enter into something that would not be, it would not be good and we could not easily get away with it. That is why I will not support this conclusion, even though I do not dispute the right of an MP to ask that conclusion to be reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16778	Thank you. Here you go. Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16779	Your Honor, the vice president said something that doesn't stand. No one was involved in the show. I repeat the fictitious owner of television called public television, which this home too, will have to discuss within a few days. So he said the chairman of the board of directors of that house. So it's a public figure, and he didn't say it as a professor at the university. Shame on him for that. I didn't say a word about it. So that's the point. I'm not looking, you see, not walking a man on two feet who can hit me. There's no one who can hit me, there's one on two legs. I am not defending myself, but defending the legal institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will be delegated physically. That's what I want. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16780	Okay. All right. Thank you. We're done arguing. Please. About the agenda, please. Mrs. Ljiljana Milićević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16781	The chairman, co-workers and colleagues, since we have not been supported, this point 9 means the Information Council of Ministers on the Implementation of Conclusions. I'm just wondering if we're going to have a secure presence of the Council of Ministers from the DOJ here with this point 9? We didn't get any written leads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16782	Thank you. If no one answers their word anymore, thank you. I'm the one who concludes the debate on the agenda. I'm closing the debate on the agenda. We're moving on to a plea. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, first of all the explanations, was asked by Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, now they have asked a question about the point of the 8th agenda. This is – Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act to be prepared by 31.1.2005. Following last session on February 22, 2005, the House Council of Ministers was delivered to the Council of Ministers for the realization in which it is said – at the 52nd session of 18th of February 2005, the House of Representatives adopted a point on the proposal for a draft agenda – the Information Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Act of Accises to be completed and prepared by 30.1.2005. After discussing this point, the House adopted the conclusion that we are submitting to you in support of this memo for the purpose of realisation. I note that the next House session will be held around 10 March 2005. Here it turns out to be March 10th. Until today, we have not received an answer from the Council of Ministers, and this is listed as a item of the agenda, and we will discuss why we did not get it, whether we got it, what we will do next when this agenda point comes. It's the obligation of this house, since we've committed ourselves to following this issue. We even made a commitment to make it legal by the end of January 2005. So much for that proposal. Mr Lagumdžija suggested that information on the Council of Ministers on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries, the Republic of Croatia and the State Community of Serbia-Montenegro be requested within this agenda. 12 This cannot of course be under this agenda point, but it may be a suggestion to be a new point of the agenda. I don't have that information, I don't know if we can, as it's called today, but I'm obliged to put it to a vote. And then I invite you to prepare. Please. Wait a minute. It'll all come to order and resolution and everything, everything, everything. I said I had a plan for what to do next, I think. I'm running a session. Don't worry. Only when I'm done, so when you see something's wrong, then call me back. Hold on a second. He's a little sick. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We are voting on Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal that, as the 14th point of the agenda of today's session, we will move on, now this is how we will put all points in place - Information from the Council of Ministers on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16783	...when he's reasonable, he can have a problem. I'd just suggest that if you've already defined it to be the 14th point, I suggest it be 9th right behind this, if by any chance the Council of Ministers is there, since they're close to those two points, so that they don't have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16784	Okay. All right. So here's the 9th point of the agenda. I accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16785	In favour of the Council of Ministers is my proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16786	Please. I don't know whose use it is, whose damage it's at. Please, all people know smart people are here. They'll plead for themselves. You heard the suggestion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Something's wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16787	It's not a good technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16788	Please, nice. _________(?) After baseball, these are the results. 13 Please again. We repeat the vote. Please service what's wrong. Can we approach the vote again? We can eat. Prepare to vote again. This is the best attempt. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I ask the MPs to prepare for the vote. Please. I ask the MPs to prepare the charts. Have you prepared the voting charts? I call upon the MPs who are ready for the proposal to lift the charts. Count the votes. Maybe you can count everything. Who's against it? Thank you to those who've been for it. Who's against it? And thank those who are against it. Are there those who are abstentions or abstentions? There aren't any. Give me the results. Okay. So 27 for, 11 against. Let's see about the entities. Let the Federation raise, let them vote who's in favour? 2,4,6,8, I counted 11. It's in the Federation. All right. Let the Republika Srpska rise. One, two, three, four, five has a majority. So I find that as part 9 of the agenda we have this information from the Council of Ministers regarding these free trade contracts. The next proposal by Mr Lagumdžija was a resolution on the BiH institutions' relationship to the mandate and the appointment of a new High Representative of the international community. According to our Rules of Procedure, the House should be made known before it is due to be delivered to the committee responsible and that, after the hearing on the committee responsible, it will come to the House, or will be put on the agenda immediately today. So the vote, is it like this to the secretary, please. Prepare to vote. Here's your resolution. Please prepare for the vote. Can we try the technique again? What about the techs? Is she okay now? What? When you fix the technique, let me know, please. Prepare the charts again. Please, the question is therefore, we are voting on the next who is for Mr Lagudmžija's resolution to be addressed to the committee responsible as provided for by Article 121. Rules of Procedure. Let him raise his hands who's in? There's nothing until I'm sure I won't be ashamed of myself here anymore. Count the votes. Who's against it? Who's against it? Thank you. 14 Mr. Lagumdžija, I would indeed ask you not to profit. So don't, then be, so please. Please, nice. Who's being held back? Give me the results. Thank you. 25 for, 3 against, 5 abstentions. Let's see, please. Let's see about the entities. The Federation who's in favour? Okay, I don't know if I can check, says the one who doesn't see says he'd like it the most. Two, four, six, eight, ten. We have a Federation majority. Republika Srpska, 2.4.6. So we have a majority. So I find that the House of Representatives has decided to deliver this resolution to the committee responsible, after which we will have it in debate here in Parliament. And we have another proposal, which is Mr Ivo Mire Jović's proposal to adopt as a point of the agenda a proposal to, therefore, condemn this statement in the Federal Television show. I will here, before I put the subject to the vote, say that it would not be good for me to think, that it would not be good for Parliament to be shown about individual emissions and individual statements on those shows. Parliament, if it is to discuss it, needs to break up about institutions. There is a Regulatory Agency for Communications that monitors the work of the media and that agency has the possibility to investigate anyone's complete case and I don't think it would be good to, I have to say this as chairman and the House of Representatives is about concrete emissions and concrete statements and concrete cases in that regard. However, my colleague suggested this and I'll put this to a vote. Are you staying with the proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16790	...but I am withdrawing this proposal only with information. The services of this Parliament have done their job, this act has also condemned the Regulatory Agency and the editorial policy of federal television, our public relations service here, and the parallel home has condemned this way as I have suggested. The people's home did it, and I thank them, and here I am withdrawing my proposal. I'll probably do it with a parliamentary question, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16791	Okay. All right. Thank you. Then we have nothing to vote on. Thank you and we lost an hour. Thank you very much. 15 I declare that the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has the next Agenda 1. Journal of the 52nd House of Representatives, 2. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. Vijaće's request to the Minister for the Review Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for an emergency competition law, in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 5. Proposal by MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation affairs to the mediators' association, by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on a proposal for a conclusion on the examination of the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum on the visit of MPs to the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia, 7. Report from the Commission on gender equality on visits to Bosnia and Herzegovina's criminal-registration institutions in which prisons are held by women, 8. Information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the House's conclusions on amendments and additions to the Excise Act (to be prepared by 31.1.2005)., 9. Information from the Council of Ministers on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries, 10. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004, 11. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary House of BiH for the period from 1.7 to 31.12.2004, 12. Appointment of members of the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications (Proposer of the Council of Ministers), 13. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to examine the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, and 14. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Postal Act. Moving to the first item of the agenda Ad.1. A record from the 52nd session of the House of Representatives you received in time. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Who wants to talk? 16 If no one answers the word, I'll conclude the argument. We'll try to reuse this electronic system. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Thank Bog. I find that unanimously with 38 votes in favour, without votes against and without abstentions, we adopted the minutes from last session and thus ended the first item of the agenda. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The parliamentary questions and answers to this session were answered by MPs, Mr Vinko Zorić, on the question from 45nd and 52nd sessions, Mr Momčilo Novaković, on the question from the 52nd session and Mr Ivo Miro Jović, on the issue also from the 52nd session. I'm asking distinguished colleagues if they have any comments on the answers they've received. Mr Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr Vinko Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16792	Here's an advantage for Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16793	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16794	I thank you for respecting the club presidents. In the SDP alone, the president is too silent for others.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16795	Give Mr. Zorić a sick SDP, comment on the question, I think.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16796	I don't care about them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16797	Please don't. Please, please, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16798	Okay. Let's get serious. I received an answer to my esteemed colleague Mire Jović's parliamentary question, as well as mine. I am quite satisfied with my 17 answers, but I have received an answer to the parliamentary question asked by Ivo Miro Jović and then I am in the last item of that response that the national structure is employed by the Federal Employment Service 37 Bosniaks, 4 Catholics and 5 Orthodox people. I don't know what I'm gonna say about this. This was signed by a graduate economist director. I don't know where it came from, but this is, I don't know if we need a conclusion, so we can keep quiet about this so we don't get caught.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16799	Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16800	I'm giving this on behalf of the club my position. I'm surprised others are silent.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16801	Mr. Vinko Zoriću has an apology, so people
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16802	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16803	We have, please nice, I'll read it publicly now, you've read it, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16804	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16805	Thus, the subject – Answering the parliamentary question and then saying – national structure, not to skip that this part of which you have trouble reading, the national structure of employees is 37 Bošnjak, 4 Hrvat and 5 Srbin. We note that in a memo of 2.3.2005, a mistake was stolen and we ask for an apology.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16806	And who signed it?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16807	Signed by Hasan Musemić by the same man who is _______________?) It's not true. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He signed for Director Hasan Musemić. He writes like this. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16809	So whoever signed it didn't apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16810	I'll get you this answer, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16811	Please don't. He didn't sign whoever signed this. So I can't apologize for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16812	Okay. All right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16813	So everything's fine. Okay. I thank you, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16814	No, not your remark, I, she's registered in a stenogram, I'm just, the secretary showed me now that she has this correction and it's true it's for signed. Here, you got it after all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16815	I didn't win, but I know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16816	Please share this. Services, please, to share this second memo I just read.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16817	How am I going to apologize for something I've done wrong?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16818	Who, Mr. Novaković, do you have a comment on your question?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16819	...some court will apologize and say okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16820	Please. Here you go, Mr. Ivo Miro Jović. Come on. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16821	I doubt, by my own information, this answer. He's inaccurate. And this embarrassingly expressed structure is, it's not true. She's even worse. Not only did this quote, which respected MP Zorić pointed out that one nation in Bosnia and Herzegovina is constitutionally called Bošnjak, and unconstitutionally some others who are Catholics or Orthodoxs brought inside, would probably have to say today that a man who is a graduate economist, who came to the post of director by a decision of one previous parliament, or another parliament in this country is in such a shameful way, nor did he, so frustratedly, answer the question, so he put the answer to the parliamentary question. Whose question? What question? He doesn't have two grades of elementary school, no wonder. I believe it's a KV man, because there in the Bureau as you see the high school of 12 people, and KV 9. Nine people of KV and NK, maybe he and NK, I agree, sir. Because you see half of the people of this Federation-level institution are qualified people who should be employed, productively employed in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No wonder we have this number of unemployed when these 2001 staff are run by these institutions. And to write something like this and then not allow yourself the luxury of having him answer the story, but to make KV a worker make an excuse, that's the bottom of the depth, the bottom of the depth.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16822	Thank you. Mr. Novakovic, do you have a need to comment on the answer to your question and you are here. You don't have one. Thank you. We're setting up, please, we're done with this preliminary, or sub-point of the agenda. We're going to ask MPs questions. Secretary, please record. Please, so here's the deal. Order, here's the secretary to lead. Mr. Živković Milorad, let Mr. Sead Avdić be prepared. Here's the secretary's water. I'll read it like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16823	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have finally received information from the Ministry of Defence regarding the inspection in Han Pijesk, but she is and we have signed this under protection and I am interested in being answered by the Ministry of Defence - what information in this information must not be given to the media and that answers us to, until the next session? And as for the Parliament Affairs Institute itself, I have already talked about this several times, and we have now been asked how many questions we have not answered and that 20 are more than 150 of these questions, so in practice we get answers to three questions in one session, I think it is clear to everyone that these questions, or those answers, will never be answered. For this reason, I propose a conclusion on this agenda point – it is up to the College of the House of Representatives to organise a special session of the House with one item of the agenda – parliamentary questions and answers in co-operation with the Council of Ministers. I stated in the postscription that the session should take place in the first half of April of the month with updated answers to the questions raised so far, with the presence of representatives of all ministries from the Council of Ministers, which does not mean that they must be ministers, be deputies or someone from those ministries, and that, as people, all these questions that we have asked here so far, we are searching and answering, to instruct the responsible persons and to ask them to answer us on the spot. And please put that conclusion to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16824	It won't be put to the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. Živković, because that is not the point of the agenda. It is not possible to adopt any conclusions on parliamentary issues. You ask the government and the others answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16825	In what way?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16826	Please, did you finish? Have a seat, please. Yeah, I'm done asking you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16827	I have the right to ask you as chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16828	Sit down, I'll give you my word. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16829	I'm not finished.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16830	Go on. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16831	Please, as chairman, do you have the right to say that within the agenda point, there is no right to conclude that it is. If you say that, please give me the letter and I'll say you broke the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16832	You'll Dobićete an answer in writing. Thank you for asking. Who's next to see? Mr Špirić, Avdić, then Mr Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16833	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to strengthen some of the text of the resolution proposed by the SDP because yesterday the Foreign Affairs Commission had an opportunity to speak with the Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany. On my request to Mr. Ambassador, have they started consultations within the international community on the election of a new High Representative? The answer was that, in fact, the main committees, i.e. the capitals of the PIC countries, agreed and practically nominated the new High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina. On my request also whether Bosnia and Herzegovina will participate with its institutions and he smiled and I would freely interpret Bosnia and Herzegovina will not take part in consultations to elect a High Representative. What does this mean for me to ask again -How and how does the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Council of Ministers and Parliament feel to be involved in the election of a new High Representative, the fact that consultations within the international community have already started and moved far away? - Who's gonna name the High Representative? - Is it necessary to change the mandate of the High Representative in line with the fact that EUFOR is EUROPOL and others in general from the European Community? That's below 1. Under 2. I seek again, update the need and defend 15 signatures of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly MPs who sought a thematic session with the OHR High Representative and representatives. Mr. Chairman, I have a feeling that you're forcing us to make desperate attempts to invite me to a parliamentary colloquium and call the High Representative without the College of Representatives. If you don't, we'll do it because we've been waiting six months for this appointment. 22 and below 3. Since 11 March the Venice Commission is considering an analysis of the Dayton Agreement i.e. Tomorrow, I think it is necessary that the opinion of the Venice Commission be delivered to the MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16834	Thank you. Next, Mr. Nikola Špirić signed up for it. Have Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić prepare himself. Here, I have the records, secretary, you just show me your hands, the secretary will record you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16835	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I will ask two questions briefly. Of course, I want to begin with, and this has been a practice so far that unfortunately we have similar incidents, or incidents of more serious content, had even an extraordinary session of the state parliament, so I want to condemn the religious intolerance, violence and vandalism that has been carried out by the attack on the Serbian priest and his deputy, and in that sense, the ministar of Security I want to ask - What does this ministry do to protect citizens in the light of the last attack on the priest and his deputy? And is it true that in the city of Sarajevo, Serbian priests have to take off their uniforms in order not to be a target for being Srbin? And are similar attacks against religious officials from any religious community across Bosnia and Herzegovina, and will the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina oppose this and how? The second question was addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and Communications, as this was my closest address compared to the government's constitution after the local elections. The issue of the constitution of the Serb people in the Federation is raised, especially constitutionality when it comes to the constitution of the city's government in Sarajevo. The city of Sarajevo is looking for the place for itself, talking about its multiethnicity, which is quite good and desirable and whether the results of the '91 census will apply to the establishment of authorities in Sarajevo. year, or will the Srbin, according to this constitutionality, go the same way as they did in Mostar? Is this a forgotten topic and will once seriously put the issue of constitutionality on the agenda? I ask a question about the city of Sarajevo for the reason it should be a good example for other cities and municipalities in Bosnia and Herzegovina in both its entities. But recently, there's been an ugly controversy about the constitution of power in terms of unwantedness in the authorities, because they're such regulations, so I'm asking. 23 - Is the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina older and the decision on constitutionality, or the unscheduled acts of the local community? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16836	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Moranjkić. Let Mr. Mladen Potočnik prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, my parliamentary question will be very brief, but allow me just a little longer answer to what has asked me to ask this question. So I ask the Council of Ministers when a complete new customs tariff tariff will be offered to this Parliament, which should have been in the procedure a year ago, according to the same Council of Ministers' promises. Namely, in Official Messenger number 58, that's this, we all got it from 20.12. The Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina has made a decision on the harmonisation and establishment of customs tariffs. I wonder, and if you've been reading it, you could see what's there and I'm getting along, and even less what's been brought here, except I could notice that the book was turned around, conspiracyd to 90oC, and as Bog says the book is read like this, we should read this book like this. That's all that's in line with this rulebook. Offered by a living problem of domestic production and agricultural conditions, I have suggested my proposal to the Council of Ministers to make certain corrections in this decision and to ex-group one, 0106 birds where there are pheasant, Jaraebice, quails, etc. which are imported into this country by two basics, are imported because of commercial hunting and are imported as a mask under which everything that is feathered in and moving across Europe, especially in the nearby and further surroundings. So something similar to worn-out meat, etc. The Council of Ministers answered me, and that answer is disastrous. They tell me I didn't hit the tariff group I suggested, and they suggest it's 010 that treats, believe it or not, live horses, donkeys, mules and mules. Take a look at it and see the lardier ones. That's not half-written or illiterate people would. So from trying to suggest something smart, they and the MPs make a fool out of each other and here's what's right. And it's no wonder we have problems like this in the country, and we solve problems between others and agriculture with the "balvan revolution" at the borders, and we're making a group out of this country. May Bog really help us with this Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16838	Thank you. Mr. Mladen Potočnik, let Mr. Petar Kunić prepare himself. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16839	Mr. Chairman, I have the next parliamentary question I'm asking the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I am asking the Communications Regulatory Agency to submit a report to this Parliament on the economic and overall position of all electronic media in Bosnia and Herzegovina, public and private with an analysis of the development of the public and private sector, as well as comparisons with the electronic media of neighbouring countries and their impact on the media area of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I ask my question for the reason that I feel that Bosnia and Herzegovina is not a regulated market in which it operates an electronic medium, which could lead not only to the deterioration of the position of domestic media, but also to the shutting down of some domestic media as a consequence of the current colonisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's media space, and thus to cultural political and programme colonisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16840	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kuni, let Mr. Adem Huskić be prepared. Mr. Kunić, I'd like you to ask your question, you're up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16841	I'm sorry, I didn't hear you, so I didn't react.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16842	Okay, okay, no problem. Let Mr. Huskić Adem prepare himself. In any case, Ademe has heard. Yes, it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16843	I would ask the question of the College – What has he done about transferring our sessions, because we have last concluded that all technical preparations are being made for the transfer of these sessions? We don't have any information. Then I would like to remind you that Parliament also concluded that the Council of Ministers is asked to urgently appoint a commission to work on drawing up a Law on the salaries of all state officials budgeted from the Bosnia and Herzegovina budget. Where were we? That's where we gave the 90-day deadline. The third thing I wanted, I asked a question about the Directorate for indirect taxation. I was looking for a structure. So by that structure, I only meant the national structure, but the organisational structure, so the governing structure. I haven't had an answer in a long time, and I was initiated by the fact that I'm listening to Mr. Čaušević's statements that are very boastful. He's acting like Luj XIV.. People are very unhappy, 25 people who get fired don't get an act on their subjective rights. Looks like we're going back to the Middle Ages for some things in these areas. I would ask both the College and this Parliament to intervene either through the Council of Ministers, or directly to that administration, although it is an enclave in the system I was talking about and it cannot survive as it is in the current structure of the legal system, but please, what can be done to take that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16844	Thank you. Mr. Adem Huskić, may Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16845	Thank you, I have two questions. One also refers to the administration Mr Kunić spoke of. Namely, I'll just remind you that our Finance and Budget Committee on January 17th had on the agenda one of the points that was initiated at the Association of Businessmen of the Upper Vrba region in which they had asked to find a way to make customs customs customs duties available at the place where they had been so far worked and because of increased customs costs in the surrounding customs offices. He only had some talks with members of the Management Board, however, they promised to do something in a way that was sent there by an official from the nearest customs office, but until today, it was not done so I ask again - Did any measures taken by the Directorate for indirect taxation, and related to the Commission's initiative, this home, for finance and the budget to make it possible for customs duties in Bugojn for increased costs. That's one question. I hope the answer comes. We'll see what he'll be like. The second issue concerns the Council of Ministers, and concerns citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina who work in international organisations and institutions. The question is: are there data on the number of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina employed in international organisations and institutions not being held as employees in official statistics, and they are actually working? - What is their working legal status, and is there any possibility that this issue can be regulated legally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16846	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Have Mrs. Sead Palavrić prepare. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16847	Mr President, for today's session, we have received material saying that at the 48th session of the House of Representatives in the context of the parliamentary questions and answers, we have reached the conclusion that all parliamentary questions to which the public is not answered through the Parliament Assembly's Public Relations Office. You're here in person. From this we can, because of this I ask the following question - why is this material that we have received no longer presented to the public and presented better to the public, because here you can see that we have 190, over 200 outstanding questions, or questions to which the Council of Ministers has no answer? A year ago, it was asked what happened to the negotiations with the IMF, two years ago asking questions about protecting domestic production and not counting everything. Two years ago, the HDZ Club asked what happened to the old foreign currency savings. That's all the answers we don't have. For this reason, Mr. Chairman, I would like first to conclude that you have made a business failure according to your colleague Živković, and I think that what you have done has been inappropriate for one simple reason why you have found that no conclusions on parliamentary issues can be adopted, and at the same session today you have provided us with the material in which you sign that we have reached a conclusion on parliamentary issues at one of the previous sessions. So, we had parliamentary questions and conclusions, and so I of you once again, before you order me to sit down, I suggest another conclusion from Mr. Živković, so since he sat down and he can't go on, so the College of the House of Representatives is tasked with co-operation with the Council of Ministers to organise a special session of the House with one item on the agenda, parliamentary questions and answers. The parliamentary session should take place in the first half of April with updated answers to the questions raised so far with the presence of representatives of all ministries and the Council of Ministers. And another conclusion. The College is in charge, so you're going to hold a press conference where the public will learn about questions that this council of ministers has no answers to, or to deliver to the people what you've delivered to us here to see what we haven't received answers to. So, a proposal for a conclusion. And secondly, I'd like to ask someone from the service to come and give him this "strict pov." The material that we got here about Han pijesak and Mladić Man, because there's nothing here that hasn't been written in the paper so far, and I wouldn't want it to be someone who never Bog you about something that's been written in the paper a long time ago. So you'd only ask that this, since I signed that I took this. 27 I'd like to be able to sign that I've returned this and learn from this that we don't pretend to be naive here when it comes to "strict pov." materials that every person in this country who reads at least one newspaper knows. A businessman, to give this back to him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16848	I would really ask MPs when they step forward for this speaker to be serious at least as much as necessary when it comes to the dignity of this parliament. Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Mrs. Seada Palavrić has her word, let Mr. Mirsad Ćeman be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16849	I thank the chairman. First, I repeat the request for answers to the questions so far asked, so the questions I have asked that I have not received the answer, and they are contained in the review that we have received. I ask new questions: 1. From the Council of Ministers of BiH, the government of the Federation of BiH, the government of the RS, I ask the authorities of the Brcko BiH District to review the national structures of employees in all administrations and other public administration bodies in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Separately for civil servants, and separately for other tenants. I also ask for the same information for public enterprises and public institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina. 2. From the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency, I request a review of the imposed sanctions on public electronic media with reasons for sanctioning, and the average salary of journalists in public electronic media. 3. I ask the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, I don't know which time, maybe this time they'll understand me, review the salary coefficient, at least the coefficients aren't secret, for each of the BiH budget users. 4. From the Federal Radio Television Management Board, I request an answer to the question whether the true claims that appear in the media these days are that the Federal Radio Television has more than one million debts to the pension fund and the Health Insurance Fund? If that's true, I ask what these debts are and what are the reasons for that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16850	Thank you. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman and we have Mr. Nik Lozančić, I apologize to Ivo indeed. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16851	At the time, a Roman senator said, his talks in the Senate ended with a winged woman who was very combative. I won't do it again. I remind myself of that only because when I want to ask the question, I always say, but at first I ask the question because the citizens I represent are asking me for answers, and I want to hear those answers, too. First, it refers to the following: - When will relations with the Republic of Italy be arranged in connection with the recognition of Bosnian-Herzegovian driving licenses in this country? Namely, a number of our citizens there work and have domestic Bosnian-Herzegovic driving licenses, there they cannot use them because they work longer than the temporary time and are now in a position not to pass the exam in the Republic of Italy, instead of using bilateral agreements, which is quite permitted and with many countries it has been resolved to recognise it simply, i.e. to arrange the recognition of driving licences. The second question concerns the following: - If the Council of Ministers intends, and here we see that it adopts certain measures concerning imports, exports, etc., or another competent authority shall bring or propose measures to amend the conditions for imports of motor vehicles, cars, trucks, etc. in Bosnia and Herzegovina, as regards the age of the vehicle. As far as I know, the age limit is now seven years. The citizens have either heard or wanted, I have to say that people expect that little, that age line to increase, and all of this again in the context, these days we have a public debate on the Traffic Safety Act where, among other things, the state of the vehicle, vehicle, etc. treats it as an essential factor in the security of citizens. So the question is, is there really a thought in that direction from the point of view of trade and security exchange? I'm simply saying, some categories of citizens expect this issue to be liberalized to some extent, but I'm simply curious about the position of executive authorities on this matter. And third -- Recently, in public, there were alleged abuses of position at the Embassy of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Jordan by ambassadors. Allegedly internal control in the MIP confirmed most of these allegations. According to my knowledge, an embassy officer of BiH in Aman, who pointed to these alleged illegal actions, has been transferred. 29 Question – Does anyone who points to the illegal conduct of anyone as an answer have to suffer sanctions in the form of a transfer? Apparently, in a specific case, it was even in the MIP's intention to withdraw the appointed embassy officer to Sarajevo, instead of moving what eventually happened, so it was moved to another destination. I ask for answers in writing for a question under 1st of the Council of Ministers and for a question under 2nd of the Council of Ministers, and for a question under 3rd of the BiH Presidency and the foreign minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16852	Thank you. Who's next? Mr. Ivo Lozančić. Let Mr Ivo Miro Jović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16853	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, the reason for today's announcement to ask questions is the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina's dedicated or military industry. It is known to us that it is chaotic and that it is already a longer period under the bat and that some have had to step down from high duties, that some are in the process of taxation, and some are responding, or will be responsible for abuses in the military or dedicated industry. A year ago, the first Deputy High Representative, Mr. Donald Hejs, sent a letter to the entity's prime ministers requesting that the intended production be removed from the military, or the Ministry of Defence, and that it belongs to the relevant ministries in the civil sector within the government. To this day, I am not familiar with it, and the public is not aware that it has been done, and we know that in the EU, most of the countries in the military industry are kept in civil ministries, or in the civil sector, which I think is the only correct way and the only possible controlled way of working, or production, sales and use of funds. We hear daily from entity ministries that they don't have enough funding to work on whether it's for normal functioning, and then it's not possible to expect them to have incentive funds and finance dedicated production that this country could benefit from. For all of this, we should have a uniquely resolved issue of military production and it is expected that military production would be concentrated at the level of Bosnia and Herzegovina for which we could also have in the structure a particular production, the benefit of employment and sales controlled because it is known in the world of sales of military products. Another element that requires the rapid call of military production and defence ministries and positive shifts when it comes to the structure of defence and relocation, or 30 moving parts from entity ministries to state level, so my question is in this direction - when will the dedicated industry, or military industry, be separated from entity defence ministries and why has this not been done so far?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16854	Thank you. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Let Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Andrić prepare and it is concluded.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16855	Very short. I have said in a previous report that our services have taken certain actions, and now I refer to the prosecutor's question to the BiH Prosecutor's Office – what it intends to take against the president of the Federal Television Management Board, who called in the programmes to destroy the body of the government, or the BiH Parliament. A second issue of relevant parts in Bosnia and Herzegovina, some will likely find themselves responsible, who would have to worry about ownership of both Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state - What about the assets of former political institutions, who uses and, for what purposes? For example. The former Socialist Youth of BiH, SSRN, Syndicate, SK, because I am aware of this facility and the equipment that all BiH citizens have built today are using groups of people for their own interests, and the most regrettable thing is that these and these assets are being rented to BiH institutions and charged fatly. It's inadmissible and embarrassing. All BiH citizens built and built these facilities, it was taken from their backs, and today they use groups of people who rent and that, imagine the insolence towards state institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16856	Thank you. Ms. Ljilja Milićević, Ljiljana Milićević, have Mr. Filip Andrić prepare himself and conclude the parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16857	Mr. Chairman, I wanted to renew my questions first, and then I realized that it was pointless, because some of us had already renewed. The fact that on the 25th page we've received questions that we haven't received answers has prompted me to ask you as a College, as people who are here in front of us the question, and the question is - What are you going to do about questions and answers? 31 I will not, as Mr. Ćeman, return to the distant past. Our people say who asks doesn't wander. Well, it looks like a man would have to take a good walk and get answers to some of the questions. So I expect from you this particular initiative on these issues and also the conclusions this home has made. We have almost analyzed on our commission, unrealised conclusions, and perhaps we are one of the committees that went well, conditionally speaking, because some three conclusions have not been realized. So, how will we deal with questions that have not been answered and with the conclusions that we have adopted that someone has not paid attention to and has not realized? This is a question addressed to the College of the House of Representatives. I expect an answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16858	Thank you. And Mr. Filip Andrić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16859	Here is an answer to Mr. Ivo Miri Jović for his representative question, after I got this one, supposedly an apology I really can't get over this just like that, because for me personally this is an insult to all my people. I can't accept an apology because I didn't get an apology from the person who made the insult and couldn't even apologize. I therefore submit an initiative to the House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH Parliament to hold a debate at the next session on the state of play at the Federal Employment Service on the trail of the response we received. It's not about the humiliation of two peoples, but it's also a bit of a sign of the structure of the employees. So let's have a little discussion on the subject. And secondly, an initiative to the Federation government, or someone else who is competent to raise the issue of the replacement of the director of the Federal Employment Service for insulting and humiliating two constituent peoples in BiH. __________(?) [[not understood, no microphone]] Let those who are more concerned with this and the initiative of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly College through which we received this response to publicly condemn such proceedings. In the future, when we ask representative questions, we will receive such answers. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16861	Thank you. This is how we closed the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16862	In accordance with Article 62 of the Treaty on the Functioning I'm looking for Rules 1 in front of the SNSD Club a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16863	Thirty minutes off. A 30-minute break at the SNSD Club's request. We'll continue at 12.10. We have a quorum. [[PAUZA]] I ask that the other MPs be informed to enter the O.R. We keep working. Mr. Milorad Živković has been asked by the president of the SNSD Club and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16864	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the SNSD Club has been seeking a break for a simple practical and pragmatic reason for this session, which we have obviously set out to do in two hours, we are beginning to start fresh with cold heads and what is called democracy and respect for the facts in Parliament, not promoting the rude way of bringing them to any of the MPs, either among the structures in the House. For the simple reason, on the basis of these facts, we feel that it is necessary to explain why one session can discuss the conclusion, and on the other, I cannot only mention that we, by our goodwill, also when we entered into the debate on the amendment, about one of the laws at the conclusion of the Kolegijum, still meant that we allowed the law to return to the Council of Ministers. So we need good will, but good will from all sides and for this reason we want to know if our proposal conclusion can come to a vote, if we don't find a way to do it another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16865	Thank you, Mr. Živković. 33 I will answer you very briefly. So you used two words, I'm not sure if you used the word nakaradically, but something like that, so I'm not sure and the other word is rude. So I would like to inform you, dear colleague, that everything I do as chairman of the House is with the aim of keeping this home, keeping its dignity in line with the function given to it by the Constitution. And those are my only intentions. I would ask you to review the stenogram from today's session and to see when the chairman came to the floor, when he chaired a committee of MPs. I'm part of that stenogram, compared to the discussion with you which is, here's the subject of some kind of debate I have here before me. It is absolutely certain that you will be able to conclude what I was talking about, of course you have the right and different conclusions. Dear colleague Živković, there is a chairman here who gives the floor and takes the word away. It's the Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you that here very often an MP gets up, and if he hasn't got a word, he's trying to discuss it, and I have to tell him then that he hasn't got a word. And it's also the Rules of Procedure. And I ask you, we have a Rules of Procedure who hasn't settled a number of practice issues of this 2.5-year-old we've been convening this home has shown that the mass of questions needs to be settled. Help all of you until we bring the Rules of Procedure to fulfil the fundamental democratic principles of this House, and the procedure is part of democracy, while preserving the dignity of this home, I am in favour of the fundamental democratic principles of this House, and its functions are naturally known by the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You see, we did this the last time, here I didn't read that part, it was written to me here, and now it's finally come to me to read it, and then to suggest a way to close this agenda, but you asked for a break, since you requested a break, I had to act as chairman of the Rules of Procedure to react. But within this point, I want to say that it's done, so this is a reminder that was written to me by my consent of course of service. The inventory responds to parliamentary questions in line with the conclusion of the 48th session. You have received a review of the questions, so this is for all MPs, to whom it is not answered definitively with the 50th session. These questions will, in line with the above conclusion, be presented to the public through our public relations service, and this document, as I recall, I was yesterday or the day before yesterday, I don't know which day, signed a few days ago, and he left. I ask you, I also think that according to the parliamentary issues and initiatives that come from this home, there is an inappropriate relationship between the Council of Ministers and other subjects to which we provide the questions. And I also think that we need to find a way to achieve a proper relationship with our issues and initiatives by the entities to which they are addressed. But you'll allow it if we adopt the agenda, and if we've said in the agenda that these are the agenda points, then let's not go to agenda points, according to certain agenda points, to actually formulate new agenda points. 34 That's all I want. That's what I was talking about when Mr. Ivo Mire Jović was proposed, and that's what this one was talking about when you pointed out your proposal. It is true that at one of the previous sessions, therefore at the 48th session, a conclusion was adopted, but Mr. Živković, it is an operational conclusion which requires that we inform the public of this, an operational conclusion. Your proposal today's conclusion is actually the job of the College. We should sit down and then, this will be my discussion at a session of the Colleges that I've just said about the relationship to our parliamentary issues. And, let me tell you right now, I think we here need to have a special agenda point at the session, I don't think it should be a plenary session, where we're going to talk about a relationship to our parliamentary issues, and on that occasion we're going to be able to propose appropriate conclusions and adopt appropriate conclusions. In that sense, it was my intervention on your proposal, and in that sense I am, not appreciating that it is an operational conclusion, but that it is the obligation of the College that will emerge from this discussion and estimating that this is the essential conclusion that determines the agenda point of one of the future sessions, I told you that we will not make this clear. However, if you insist, since this has not been settled with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged as chairman to ask the House, shall we vote on your proposal. And it's democracy because if there's something wrong with the Rules of Procedure, I don't take the right to interpret it. Here, let's interpret this home. And I'm going to ask this house if it will plead on your proposal and according to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's proposal, because Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija has made certain suggestions here, referring to your discussion. And, please, I'd rather be replaced, and don't, don't give me the epithets that don't belong to me, because everything I do, I do that we have order here and that we have a democratic atmosphere in order. That ballana has to be achieved. Here, that's how much I've had. If you insist on voting, I will ask the House to decide whether to vote on your conclusion. If the House decides I'll put it to the vote, there's no problem, but I'm like the Chairman can't take it because these are the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I have read again the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Rule 127, which speak on parliamentary matters, do not say anywhere that we can work in the way we have worked. Last time we did it, but I repeat, it was an operational conclusion, an operational conclusion. Here you go, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16866	Thank you, Chairman. Obviously, this break is welcome to everyone because still cold heads and based on facts, we can do far more than we can do to individual hasty reactions. Two words I used in a carad, and rudely, I don't know why you're being directed to you. So the fact is, we're on our way to this session. Did you participate in this and in what way, someone else decides, and I think 35 are also the MPs' fault. Some MPs treated each other rudely in the discussion, yet you were not referred to it, but incorrectly to me and as an MP and as the president of the club was your relationship unlike some other MPs, some other club members. That's how I reacted. This explanation for your conclusion is quite different than the explanation you said in the way you said at the session, and I am also asking this House to put that conclusion to the vote, to see if we have the strength to ask our Council of Ministers to come here at some point next month in full composition and answer over 200 outstanding questions. If this Parliament has the strength to ask the Council of Ministers to do so, it is not prejudged on the agenda, but simply the way in which this House can communicate with the Council of Ministers. For that reason, I ask you to put that conclusion to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16867	So, I'm glad it doesn't apply to me, that you explained it. I'm running a session, you know, and I'm the most responsible for her flow, and I may have assumed some things, but here's after your explanation. Here, I am informing you, now the College has considered this matter and the question of parliamentary issues and relations to parliamentary matters, there is no need to declare the House about it. The college decided to propose it in the next session of this House. So this is how we ended this question. The College decided, since the College included, since the College created agenda, at least in what is called, that for the next session, the special item of the agenda would be unrealised parliamentary issues, i.e. the relationship to parliamentary issues coming from this House. Then we will open a debate about everything, and then of course we will have an idea and we will put these ideas as suggestions, and we will make a statement about them and make the right conclusions. Mr. Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16868	Mr. Chairman, on the background of your proposal, I, in the form of a parliamentary intervention, want to respond in terms of responsible and irresponsible questions. The way I looked at it, and looking only through my questions, seven parliamentary questions were never answered, and six were extremely cataractly answered, which I publicly commented on and said I was looking for a new answer. So, I ask you to note the services and to find them and to sort it out because it's going to be a completely different picture compared to even this one. I run 13 unaccounted for, instead of 7. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16869	All right, thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Mr. Zlagko Lagumdžija asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16870	...his proposal for a conclusion, however, Mr. Chairman, conclusions, especially the text you sent us, does not know the operational conclusions and conclusions. He does not know the distinction between the operational conclusions and the conclusions, where, even if there is a distinction between operational conclusions and conclusions, I cannot agree with you that the operational conclusion, if it is of minor importance, is that, under the operational conclusion, there is something that means forwarding to the public 200 questions, to which the Council of Ministers does not have answers. But, in order not to bother each other here, I don't understand at all why you don't just put in, besides what you've just concluded, why don't you put in the conclusion that my colleague Živković suggested, and the conclusion that I suggested, on the vote. Well, back off. Because you've had such conclusions before. If you prefer, I can formulate this in an operational conclusion. So I'm proposing an operational conclusion the way you've proposed the operation before. There's no problem. You reject that, but I think you're unnecessarily exhausting us here and I expected you to, if nothing, apologize to your colleagues for interrupting him so abruptly and forcing him to sit down, not to allow him to draw any conclusions at all, although you have earlier suggested the conclusions yourself. Don't take this anywhere like this. I suggest you think about your behavior, you really treat us like an investigator here, and we suspect of something, and now you're ordering something, you sit down, you talk, you go here, you go there, you don't need it. I mean, this is neither school nor you're a cop, or you're not in that position right now. And we're even less someone who deserves to feel like in the light of an investigative organ reflector.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16871	Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16872	Here I am really patiently following this, listening to our work so far, and most of all, I've volunteered to try to make a contribution, to go to work, and it seems to me that I understood why the SNSD was looking for a break and I thought we were close to a solution. From what I understand, the College has concluded in mutual communication that at the first next session it will be placed as a part of the agenda and it will be problematic, it will open a debate on the relationship between those to whom we are asking the question, above all the Council of Ministers, etc. I mean, he's also gonna call the Council of Ministers and I think if we get that kind of signal and information from the College, we can take it as a way out of this situation. 37 And, as far as the Party for BiH Club is concerned, it is acceptable for us, we hold you to our word. You will put it on the agenda and at the next session we will all prepare to find some solutions to this problem that we have all opened. Let's really bring the end of it this way and get to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16873	Thank you. Mr. Križanović asked for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am one of the MPs in this House who precisely because of this kind of ignoring relationship, in particular the Council of Ministers and other institutions in BiH on parliamentary issues, has asked a relatively small number of questions. However, from what we have received today, as a material to unsolicited representation issues, I have managed to find a good part of the questions that were addressed to the College of this House of Representatives. It also has a significant number of questions that the Colleges have not shown themselves to. The College has just been asked, in this sense, to protect the integrity of this Parliament when it comes to parliamentary issues and the conclusions made by this Parliament, this House, and which has insisted on the realization of these conclusions. Of course, none of this has been done, so I would suggest that in conjecturing the conclusions that would lead to the resolution of this problem, that we also have in mind that our College is not the bright side of a responsible relationship with this House. So, in conjecturing this possible conversation with the Council of Ministers on this subject, and I would like our College to prepare itself on this matter and to say why, what prevented our College from carrying out the conclusions of this House and what was the problem with answering parliamentary questions addressed to the College. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16875	Thank you. Mr. Živković, I'm asking you now. Are you satisfied with the College's response or do you continue to insist on voting?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16876	I think it would be more democratic for you to put your position to a vote here and have the MPs set up for him. If your attitude passes, these other conclusions fall to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16877	All right. I'm hanging in there. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting on a proposal from the College to vote, which I've already repeated twice. Prepare to vote. So here I am, for those who have not followed, I have spoken twice, so the College has decided that a relationship to parliamentary issues, an analysis will be prepared, 38 full analysis by the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, and a relationship to parliamentary issues, will be put in place as a part of the agenda at the next House session. Then of course, the Council of Ministers will also be called and everything that goes on, I can't do this right now, all that dictates, but it's a perfectly normal thing, and then we'll discuss and, of course, adopt the relevant conclusions. This is a proposal for a conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives with 32 votes in favour, without against, four abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted this conclusion. We're going to the third item of the agenda, that's A.3. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of BiH on an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for an Emergency Procedure were sent to Parliament on 17th and you received it on 18 February this year. We are considering a request for a procedure under Article 104. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? I'm closing the debate. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We are voting on a procedure under Article 104. Mr. Lagumdžija, I hope this isn't a police method, but I would ask you to either sit down or do what you think you should do, just don't let other MPs do their job. I believe this isn't a police method, is it? Please. Well, look, I assume you're an MP, that you should sit here in the O.R., and not while it's interesting by noon, be in Parliament and then leave Parliament from noon, so now as we call it, please, of course. Thank you very much. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. 31 for, without prejudice, 2 abstentions, with a sufficient entity majority, we accepted the procedure under Article 104 concerning the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda, that's Add.4. Request by the Council of Ministers to consider the proposal for a competition law under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal for this Law were sent to Parliament on 23 February and was forwarded to you on the same day. We are therefore discussing a request for a procedure under Article 104. 39 I'm opening a debate. Who wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has adopted the procedure under Article 104 concerning the Proposed Competition Law, without prejudice, with a sufficient entity majority. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. Proposal by MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the proposal for a law on the transfer of mediation affairs to the Mediators' Association by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill, delivered to Parliament on 18 February, was forwarded to you on 23 February. poslanik Ćeman proposes that the bill be considered in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a debate on the proposal, please. I'm closing the debate. Prepare to be pronounced. Vote now. I find that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives by majority vote 29 for, 2 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority accepted the procedure, according to Mr Ćeman's proposal for the Mediation Business Transfer Act to the Mediator's Association. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The Commission's report on an effort to reach an agreement on a proposal for a conclusion on the Commission's Report on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, on a visit to the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes committed in the area of the former Yugoslavia You have received a Commission Report from the College on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion. The college has reached an agreement. That's what I'm informing the House about and I'm realizing that the next conclusion has been adopted. It is up to the Commission for Human Rights Immigration, Refugees and Asylum to carry out consultations with the Ministry of Justice, Foreign Affairs and the Court of BiH, and then, having regard to the discussion on the report, to submit an innovative report to the House. 40 We move to the seventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.7. A report by the Commission on gender equality on visits to BiH correctional prisons, in which the prison is supported by women We discussed at the 51st session a report from this point, after which we eventually tasked the Commission to achieve gender equality, to hold another session, to sum up the proposals for new conclusions proposed in the debate and to propose to Dom eventually supplementing the reports. On 8 March, the Commission held a meeting and submitted a new report. You got that report. As you have seen, the Commission proposes to the House to accept the conclusion report contained in 14 points. I note, one time we had it here in the debate, there was a discussion, the Komisijija did it, I think, included correctly. You've received a report from the Commission. I'm opening a debate on this subject, please. Mrs. Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16878	...send, I remain as an MP and as a proposing part of the supplement to this report. I remain in the need to include this point, which was in my proposal number 14, which is, when it comes to the legislation that follows, under which criminal sanctions are handled, therefore concerns the laws on the criminal sanctions of the Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH, the Commission recalls that entity governments have failed to fulfil the obligations defined in Article 21. The law on gender equality in terms of amending existing legislation and harmonising it with the Law on Gender Equality. Emergency entity laws on the enforcement of criminal violence and criminal sanctions need to be complemented by provisions that define direct and indirect discrimination as well as gender-based violence involving harassment, sexual harassment. It is known that he is a member of the 21st century. The Gender Equality Act requires what to do in a six-month period, given that entity governments haven't done anything, almost nothing in that field, I think this is a very important conclusion that should be included in the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16879	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16880	Mr. Chairman, I am sorry, since Mrs. Majkić was not at the meeting of the Commission, which was held at 10pm on March 8th, we sought to respect the majority, here are the fellow conclusions here which are new. As far as this question is concerned, we have come from the fact that it is a legal obligation, if there are laws, they must be 41 aligned. Therefore, we cannot now ask someone to apply the law again if we have already prescribed it by law. And as for the suggestion, according to entity governments, I ask you, because here it actually stands to the law of this, it is understood that all laws must be, with each other, that this, in entity terms, has and there are Committees on Gender Equality, and we've been doing a visit report here and we've proposed conclusions, and I think we're most of what's been taken into account and I'm sorry that you haven't been, and we might have found this, some kind of solution that would suit you more. Because here in preamble itself is said, given the law passed, all that is suggested are the following conclusions. So much, and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16881	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16882	Only one, correctional institutions are located in both entities. So they're not at BiH level, so it's not our jurisdiction to talk about it. This criticism is relevant and it refers only to obligations, a reminder of the obligation, they did nothing in that field. We have one law that is not respected and it is a finding at different levels that this law is not respected. I don't think this report is going to be poorer because it's going to have a message like this, and that's the only part I insist on.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16883	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Does he? Mr. Jozo Križanović, President of the Commission, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16884	I would like to say that the Commission has really carefully considered all the proposals and suggestions to improve the conclusions it has made in line with the conclusion of this House. I can safely say that we have also considered this proposal, which my colleague Majkić has now made and we have found in fact that most of these suggestions and observations made by her colleague, Majkić, would be contained in our conclusions. We have nevertheless appreciated the effort and good will to make these conclusions even clearer, expanded and strengthened with suggestions that came from our colleague. That is why I do not think that we should really insist on all this which has been said and proposed, because once we visit criminal and correctional institutions where we have analysed, above all, the conditions for the maintenance of the prisoners' sentences, we cannot enter the entire legislation relating to gender equality and the harmonisation of legal legislation in this regard. 42 So I appeal to the House that we have considered all this with great care and I think we have well formulated the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16885	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I'm closing the debate. So here we have the Commission's report and we have Mrs Majkić's request to complete this report and this point that she proposes. Are you staying with your proposal, Mrs. Majkić? You're staying, okay. So we'll vote first on putting this in place, so on the amendment practically on Mrs. Majkić's proposal, that's the procedure. You heard the views and the Commission. I invite you to prepare for the vote. So, we vote on whether to include this report and Mrs Majkić's proposal, and then we will vote on the report itself. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 for, 15 against, 8 abstentions, the proposal did not win the parliamentary majority. Prepare to make a statement on the Commission's report itself, so without what Mrs. Majkić suggested. We're voting on the report we received in writing, without any additions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the 32-vote House of Representatives has accepted the Commission's report, without protest and one abstention with a sufficient entity majority. Please, you can always get every report, you don't even have to ask it as a question. Every MP, then, in the future for any vote if he wishes to list, has the right to receive it. So this is the general answer for all of us, and for this question and for all possible questions on this subject. And not just the MPs, but everyone here in this room, and the service will please. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. Information from the Council of Ministers on the Implementation of the House's Conclusion on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises, which was to be prepared on 31.01.2005.Respected, so colleagues and colleagues, we all know the history of this agenda point. It began on 29th of last year, when we adopted the Law on Transport Tax and the Act on Excises of BiH and when we committed to adopt amendments and amendments to those laws by 31 January 2005 by 31 January 2005. Since then, 43 activities have been conducted. At least we held this House almost every session as a matter of duty. From last session, I read at the beginning today, and now it's time to talk about it, not when it comes to the agenda, referred the request to the Council of Ministers to provide us with written information. We haven't received any information until today, and that's all I can tell you at this point in the agenda. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Nikola Špirić answered his word, please. Let Mr. Beriz Belkić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16886	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, I don't think I know what needs to happen in this country, what Parliament should do, so that it is respected by the Council of Ministers, which Parliament unfortunately has not chosen, but has only confirmed. I'll take you back when we talked about just maybe 5-6 months ago, when we talked about changes and amendments to customs rates and tariffs, when some MPs convinced us and when we concluded that the Council of Ministers had committed itself to inform Parliament within 3 months, or to come out with an account of what the BiH state had received because we had done it in an emergency procedure, of course not to lose the state. It's been 6-7-8 months, we don't have those calculations. What should still happen is that we, as Parliament, have the strength to let the Council of Ministers know that we choose them. I really don't want to discuss this agenda item today without a written report from the Council of Ministers. Well, in this country, you can't catch anyone by word, you can't even catch a number. We can also draw our conclusions here, we can talk about what Parliament thinks, we can propose proposals, but again we will get a response from the Council of Ministers, you know we are not with the Direct Taxation Directorate, we did not agree with OHR, etc. I'd like this deaf phone game to stop. If the Council of Ministers entertains us for two months to talk, there is a crisis, there is no crisis, there are resignations, there are no resignations, two months are not sitting, and then at the end when Parliament insists for 4 or 5 months to send information, no matter what information is, we do not have that information as MPs. And I have to tell you, this is the kind of relationship that we've shown simply, the level of this Parliament has led to, say, one level where even citizens can't recognize that this is a serious parliament. I'd like to put an end to this, if we could just stop at this until the Council of Ministers sends an answer, it won't be ready to come and have a dialogue with parliamentarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16887	Mr. Beriz Belkić. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16888	Here, I almost wouldn't have anything special to add to what Mr. Špirić said lastly and with the conclusion that this will be the chairman, looks 44 even longer on call this, topic. I am more frustrated to say, or disappointed by this one ignorance, one relationship like us has no obligation to you, etc. I say there was something to write, that this House could have gotten some information because there were some things going on in the meantime. However, that information would put us in a position where we have to face another fact that we will have to open up a debate here and determine whether we will accept such a situation as to continue, or change it. Namely, what it's about. Not to repeat the conclusion, etc. The Finance and Budget Commission has met with the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Directorate, etc., had some activities and, in short, we have practically faced information that certain things are being done, that certain consultations, certain analyses are being carried out, etc. As MPs, we have all received certain initiatives, certain unauthorized ones, so to speak to the promoter where it has been offered to MPs to appear in the role of the promoters, etc. I mean these chambers, I mean associations and associations of businessmen, etc. And in the end, we faced this fact, so something was going on and it could have been written by the Council of Ministers or the Resort Ministry could have collected all that data and this Parliament could have informed it today. But it is the following situation that we have faced that it is impossible practically without the consent of the Management Board or, the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, to make changes, not even the basic Law on the Indirect Taxation System, let alone these concrete solutions... the height of the rate etc. So, it has also escaped to inform this Parliament, but it has not occurred to us on the committee and the members of the committee who were present, and unfortunately only one or two members, two members of the Governing Council, have come to the attention of the chairman of the Management Board, Mr Dikson, to come, etc. They have simply informed us that they are considering it and they are holding positions that Parliament and no one else without their consent can carry out any change. So obviously this is what Mr Špirić was talking about, that we must insist on providing here a dialogue with the Council of Ministers, and then we should open this issue as well. Therefore, all these initiatives that have come from both Parliament and outside Parliament cannot, in practice, go into proceedings without the consent of the Management Board, at least so is the interpretation of both the Management Board and the competent committees of our committees. So, we're not gonna achieve anything if we have a long discussion. Obviously, we will have to try to trace what Mr Špirić was talking about, try to arrange with the Council of Ministers to appear here and discuss this matter. We had an obligation if the Council of Ministers didn't do it, to do the commission, but the Management Board of Directorates told us, no, we don't, we'll keep you informed, etc. Thank you very much. So we have a board of directors that's practically above and out of the system of whether it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16889	Thank you, Mr. Jozo Križanović, come in. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16890	I thank Mr. Chairman, I thought I'd say something a little bit wider, but really after my fellow Špirić and Belkić I won't, I'm going to try not to repeat what's been said. We here today agree that we are facing a problem so important that as it is formulated here, we are told to hold it as current, as a hot topic. And here's what I don't know is the way to repeat one inconvenience for this House, not to execute the conclusion of our home. To ignore. The next item of the agenda is also information on the consequences and reasons etc. temporary suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Agreement with neighbouring countries. I don't see any reason for us to have information here. And that's why I suggest, so that we don't put our heads in the sand as they say, if we were in this place today, to stop this House session, to leave business opportunities for an hour, to see if we're going to get that information. Or, yes, we're holding this issue of changing the excise tax code. So, to be clear, I propose that the session be suspended for an hour, so that we can get the Council of Ministers' indication of two very important points that are current, which they hold to say BiH in one economically chaotic state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16891	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16892	predsjedniće, I am expressing my full agreement with the predecessors, regarding the relationship of the Council of Ministers to the House of Representatives. Namely, this parliament has the right not only to choose the Council of Ministers but also to have certain legal, political powers, and also to authorise financial character. It also has powers towards the Governing Board and that non-participated body, above all institutions within the structure of the joint institutions. We just need to get serious. I told one of the pre-sessions to get serious, to stop the election dictatorship. So, those who support the government, or the Council of Ministers, to say once, so please, as long as you ignore us, who we are here. Are we a serious Parliament or are we not a serious Parliament? Because we can say that or we'll go completely into a passive, and we'll leave it to the Minsitor's Council to fly the ship. That's the essential question. So it's all up to us. It's all up to us. When we start, when we call someone on the Council of Ministers, then the vote gets most of the vote, so that's what it is. the electoral dictatorship that dominates and is very reliable and secure in this House of Representatives. When we stop acting that way, we're sure the Council of Ministers will have someone sitting there. This is totally ignoring, that you don't have people from the Council of Ministers when they're discussing the points that directly concern them. They've become completely untouchable. That's ignoring, one, I'd say it's even an immoral and uncultural gesture by the Council of Ministers, especially the chairman. Thank you very much. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16893	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mrs. Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16894	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, my predecessors, especially Mr. Belkić, as a member of the Commission, has informed you. So I didn't accidentally ask in the morning, when we adopted the agenda, if we would have information or the presence of the Ministry's superiors. Look, I don't need a board of directors here today. I need someone from the Council of Ministers, i.e. to inform us what has been done because we have made a commitment to the Council of Ministers. The honor of this boy sitting, I don't know who he is, there's no one here. I'm curious, so we haven't received any of their reports, no presence has been secured, has the College informed the Council of Ministers that this was put on the agenda? So, I wonder if the Council of Ministers has been informed that we were expecting their information and presence on this agenda point? Second, so I'll just inform you of the additional 15 days. We sat down with the board of directors right after last session of the House. They've introduced us to the activities of the board of directors and led by them. Private information is one thing, what went to the Council of Ministers, I expect to get it officially here. As to the meaning of the amendment and the addition of the law, there is one initiative from our colleagues here. That initiative is going into normal procedure. We have scheduled for the 17th Commission to discuss the amendment and supplementation proposal, so that people don't mix it, so that's what the SDP Club went with the amendment proposal and the addition of the law and what we expected from the Council of Ministers we haven't received yet. And that's why I support the idea, I think it's Mr. Križanović, to take a break, to wait for someone present from the ministry to officially introduce us to what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16895	Thank you. Mr. Moranjkić, please. Excuse me, Novaković called before you did. Here you go, Novaković. Excuse me, Mr. Moranjkić. Momčilo Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16896	I thank the chairman. Well, it seems to me that here the most about the Council of Ministers is those who didn't vote for the Council of Ministers mean. Let me say something that I supported this Council of Ministers meeting. 47 I think that Mr Špirić, with one proposal right at the beginning of the debate, actually gave the possibility that we are now not introducing any other stories besides the essential ones, which is why the points are put on the agenda. And this one and I'm talking about the next point that seems to be put on my terms, if the people of the Council of Ministers come and talk about it, if they don't come, right? And that's that this is to be discussed or put on the agenda, only when we have written information. Every other story that my colleagues have told here, of course fully respecting their sincere desire for the Council of Ministers to work better, I honestly mean by the alleged signs, then I should really suggest to my colleagues and ask my colleagues not to be exhausting ourselves now by talking about whether this is good or not. It's obvious that we don't have a report, that there's nothing to discuss, just because we don't have one. And we've already discussed it several times. So, I'm joining Mr Špirić's proposal and I'm asking the other colleagues to shorten the debate so that we can really be the only one possible at this point, this variant we find, which is that we don't discuss this, so until we get a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16897	Mr. Moranjkić. Have Mr. Gligorić prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16898	Mr. Chairman, we're in a position as far as I can tell, where we're all in this room aware that there's nothing from that report. Every request for a break, for me, is irrational and we've had four or five cases of these in this room so far where we've been brought into matt position, where we've had a solution like this, if someone's following me, so let them escort me if they're not. We've moved that point to the last one, sent word to the Council of Ministers to try to get there, if they don't get to the last point, there's no sign of it. We draw a conclusion, as he will be, that may be a matter of Parliament. We here have invited guests who have come to refer to certain reports, etc. It would be a little unfair for them if they were sitting here all day, and we could figure this out for me, practically like this. So, to simply move this point to the last point, to send if no courier has been sent to the Council of Ministers with an assignment to come, to give such and such a report, if they do not come, we will draw the conclusion that we will make, and we will continue to work. That's my suggestion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16899	Thank you. Mr. Gligorić, please. A little thirst, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16900	I think we should simply support this proposal by Mr Špirić and those who are here and Novaković in this case, because until they come, there is no point in really discussing it until people come before the Council of Ministers. 48 At the same time, I think it would be a good idea to really resolve the issue in the future because you are like the congregation's majority mirror of such a Council of Ministers and that is inappropriate behavior. And I just wanted to say, it's really amazing that those who are in power, you're criticizing, so I feel like you're washing your conscience, like you're criticizing, etc. And at the same time, you show your inability to change anything with those leaders sitting there for you. Therefore, give some dignity in this House, when we tell them, they will come and line up. I, of course, did not vote for this Council of Ministers, it will prove to be the most devastating thing in BiH, but I have the right to ask them in accordance with the Constitution and the law of this country to account for Parliament and, therefore, I think it would be a good idea not to waste time. We don't need a break for sure, and if it was, maybe in good faith. We don't need breaks, we just need to figure things out and what Mr. Moranjkić says. If we do not go to the last point, if not, we simply take off to the next point when they will be present, the next session, and in this way we will solve, even I consider every one of them and what Professor Kunić said, and also, we do not need what is directly concerned with them, we will not debate and the public will say, then they will put pressure on them, because as MPs from the parliamentary majority, you do not have the power to put pressure on them to come here and to work according to the Constitution and the law of this country, but the public will say that it is not because they were not present to defend what they have sent to Parliament and, in this way we will do a great job and we in Parliament, and, of course, journalists who can help us to understand people and defend what they have proposed and to respond to this Parliament. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16901	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić, replica. All right, people, what do I do? Mr. Lagumdžija asked for a word. We have to make it happen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16902	I was thinking of doing a fuller replica than you had an introduction to my report. I wouldn't ask for the help of a journalist or anyone outside these 42 men. That's inappropriate. I think these 42 MPs are able to do anything, if they think with their heads and if they plead, they'll always be the majority. If 22 MPs are thinking something, and 20 is something else, it's worth these 22. I don't need anyone's help to judge this matter and anyone else's outside this House or the press. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16903	Thank you very much. Mr. Lagumdžija. Excuse me, Mr. Lagumdžija. The answer to the replica Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16904	I, in this Parliament, constantly advocate that, indeed, we in Parliament are deciding in a way that we do it really on the basis of facts, based on certain indicators, parameters and our consciences. And just as Mr. Zorić said we weren't doing it. I have put journalists in context as well as the conscience of the Bosnian Herzegovina society who have heard and who are watching whether someone is doing their job correctly or not. In this context, people are not in the session, we are discussing their agenda, or their report or the bill, and they ignore it. And on that side, I thought they could call some people, because obviously Mr. Zorić is getting your criticism with some relief, who knows what kind of comments there, they just don't take it as serious and, I don't think you should or should in the future be criticizing someone, who, in fact, unwittingly with this Parliament's behaviour, in fact, let them act that way, because they say, we have our extended hand in the Prlament, they're going to do everything they need to do, because we're going to tell them secretly behind Parliament phone, and then people are just acting like that, and you're covering for their trouble. You must take responsibility for the failure of the BiH executive authority, not just talking about Parliament and this session or these points of the agenda. I am talking about the complexity of the mteria and the complexity of the relations between the executive and the legislative authorities, since you have specifically initiated it. And that's why you need to take responsibility. Here, they're in the package now, Mr. Terzić said the book was closed. I think books should be open all the time. Here, let us take religious servants, they open up, it doesn't matter the Kuran or the Holy Scriptures or the Bible, out of respect, what it says inside, but out of respect they keep opening and watching, and this one of us closed the book in BH society.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16905	I would ask if we can agree that we are really avoiding unnecessary debates in this House. The colleague of the House is, here's one man reported for discussion, and we have a few replicas before that. I'd like to ask you, in fact, to respond to the replicas to give it up, if that's possible. I ask him to give up both discussion and debate. We have a proposal, if you don't give up, I have to give you my word, there's no other. But our proposal is next. True, unfortunately, I must give you my word, if you insist. We have a proposal, look out, Mr. Lagumdžija, we have a proposal to get out of this situation. The college has a proposal on how to get past this, but if you insist on discussing what we're going to do, there's going to be a discussion. 50 So we can accept the College's proposal, yes, Mr. Zorić, if you're looking for a word. My attempt failed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16906	My colleague is in response to my replica, he did not deny anything from what I am, but said that I, and you can look at it in a stenogram, that I, therefore, often criticise the Council of Ministers, which is not true. So I voted for the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has my support, but not all the moves of the Council of Ministers, but I have certainly not made any criticism, nor have I discussed until the moment I replicated to a respected colleague. So, I don't see in which context he can say that Zorić is kieric, but he is an extended hand of the Council of Minsitarians. The truth is, the majority in this House is an extended hand, because she chose it, but that doesn't mean that we have to agree with every move, and I am, so that this problem is done at the moment we have information, because we can't talk about information unless we have it. So I wish we had a lot of laws, and we don't have them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16907	Thank you. Mr. Novaković, reply to the replica. Short just please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16908	I'll be very brief. First of all, I suggest we all practice this in front of direct TV transmissions, since some of us started practicing. So, Mr. Lagudmžij is going to practice again a little bit what it looks like when television is broadcasting, well, let's all practice a little bit. The second I answered, I answered to express my conviction that the way Mr Gligorić described the impact on the MPs did not come from the time he was in the Council of Ministers and I guess he did not. I hope not, so that he has the right to criticise in the way he does.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16909	Thank you. Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16910	First of all, unfortunately, nothing's funny to me, as I've seen this point of the agenda, how it's miserable and has begun, this is the third attempt, if I'm not mistaken to have this point on the agenda, the third jubilee. In every country in the world, when parliament comes to this situation that we have come into, and the situation that we have come to, after three attempts, this is called, this is a clear example that the government has refused to respect parliamentary decisions and Parliament as such. It's called a coup anywhere in the world. Yeah, you heard me right. This is called a coup. 51 The government refuses Parliament to respect its decisions and ultimately simply does not come. I don't think we should form a commission, because there's no power here for that. Yes, that's right. This is called Ljiljo everywhere in the world, theorist would call it that. However, what is the direct area for this. The direct cause is what we concluded almost three months ago that domestic production is going into collapse. In the last two months, we've seen the head of the Statistics Agency come forward, which tells us that the trade deficit in history wasn't bigger than it was now. Today we read in the paper of the prime minister who made a statement that he was in the dilemma whether to go out to meet farmers, read in parentheses those three companies that imported the junk food we gave them, so these farmers were the three companies, which made the budget easier for millions of marks, and today we heard that our government was facing a dilemma whether to protect those three farmers or to disrupt good relations with the European Union and our neighbours and that yesterday the Council of Ministers decided to disrupt good relations with the European Union and its neighbours.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16911	But that's the next item of the agenda, now we're on... can't be the same. I didn't get out. I'm sorry, just so you know, we're talking about excises.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16912	I'm talking about excises, you probably didn't listen there, because two of your colleagues listened closely to what I'm saying and I can conclude myself without you that I'm still at the agenda point I'm still not so subtle that I don't know what point I'm on. So, Mr. Džaferović, if this were by any chance the Council of Ministers in which we are parliamentary majority, you would have replaced this council of ministers. You don't normally think of it, because you let them step on you however they want, there's no problem. You can afford it. We have a commission in 17.3., where it will practically be for finance, here's what we're talking about today, and then the Council of Ministers will want no body at the next session to come to show up about this law. That's why, Mr. Chairman, I would suggest you take a break for lunch. We have, Jovica, with us working as a courier, he can leave, if you don't have a courier, Courier Jovica can go and tell them that we're waiting for them to come. If you don't want to give us a break for lunch. Then we'll use the right to seek a break as a SDP MP's club. You have to give it to us, and if the Council of Ministers doesn't show up by then, we really don't need to participate in this farce. Then I suggest, first of all, that you bring them in, if you don't bring them in, we don't see the need to participate in the work of today's session. If you bring them in, if you don't bring them in... if you start the initiative and replace them. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16913	Okay. Please, thank Mr. Lagumdžija. For a word, Mr Gligorić answered very briefly. Here you go, but just for a little while.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16914	I meant the replica of Mr. Novaković, to say how I used to work. I was really disciplined as a minister, I was sitting alone, because for me it was at the time, and even now it should be for these to be when Parliament is in an expensive session there is no more important thing in the state than Parliament's meeting. And I really respected that. And, as I worked among other things, I don't know, I was criticised by some others, who, like I did, so among other things, I tried to get a BH passport that you criticized me for, and now I've opened the world for you to walk with, I think it's a little bit on my part.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16915	Please, nice. I thank Mr. Gligorić. College, I do, if no one ever answers their word again. I am concluding the debate on this agenda point and the College is proposing the next conclusion. Yes, Mr. Lagumdžija the break procedure will, of course, come, if you insist, you have the right as a club to seek a break, I can't deny it to you, but now it's the agenda point and we're concluding on the agenda point. We can't take a break at the club's request to conclude on the agenda. The College proposes that information be requested from the Council of Ministers in writing on this matter of excise duties until it has arrived and that this be the point of the agenda of the next session. The colleague, therefore, undertakes to communicate to the Council of Ministers and to point out these problems to discuss here twice already, and we do not have the right answers. I have some information from the Council of Ministers. I didn't happen to come out here, that there was some answer, but I don't know what, the I.D.A. arrived at the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury and that the Minister intends to give it to the Council of Ministers and then go to Parliament. That's what I've been told right now. So I didn't memorize it, and the College on this point suggests this conclusion, and I urge you to make your point on this conclusion. I'll put it in, please, this is a proposal from the College and the College invites you to make your point on this conclusion. I invite you to prepare for the vote. You can get the word, of course you can get the word. This is a proposal for a conclusion. Look, this is a proposal for a conclusion, and it is the right for MPs to now discuss the proposal for a conclusion. There isn't. We're discussing a proposal for a conclusion. Mr. Križanović, please. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16916	Well, I don't think a proposal like this makes any sense, because he's nothing compared to the way we've determined the agenda. We also knew when determining the agenda that we had no written information. And we put that on the agenda, to discuss, expecting, of course, oral information. Since it is not there, I think that further decline in the reputation of this home is such a conclusion that for the third time we conclude that we are asking the Council of Ministers for written information, so that we can discuss something. I mean, I can't accept it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16917	Thank you, Mr. Križanović. You have the right to your opinion on this proposal's conclusion. Mr. College member of the Vice-President Raguž Martin is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16918	I'll just have one sentence. There was too much talk about the reputation of this home. I think that we should stick to the conclusion, which we adopted, if this Council does not prepare that it will prepare the competent committee and I propose, that is my answer in relation to all the objections when the Commission prepares a proposal to the House. This home will have a chance to read about it. And, I mean, I refuse all objections that we don't take care. So, by then, we've been keeping an eye on the council, and if it doesn't, we'll do it. So don't underestimate that possibility, that's our conclusion and let's stick to it. And if there's no conditions for a quality debate, don't manipulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16919	I thank Mr. Raguž. If no one comes to the proposal for a conclusion, which I have put forward as a proposal for the conclusion of the College, Mr Beriz Belkić, please consider the proposal for the conclusion of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16920	...right when it comes to the conclusion. Here's to tell you, if you haven't just followed up, so the Commission already has two-three variants and two-three versions and wider solutions in the process, rather than those that have been sought, but I said the problem is that we have an obligation to deliver this to the Management Board of the indirect taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16921	Thank you, Mr. Belkić. I think we can move on to a statement, Mr. Andrić, if you insist, if you ask, of course, please. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16922	To propose from session to session, it seems to me that we have invented a body that is above the BiH Parliament. We made ourselves a boss, who now, so he ignores us and we don't know how we're gonna work without him. I propose the conclusion that the Commission for Finance and Budgets should be in charge, to prepare parallel to this law amending and supplementing the Law on the Administration of Irregular Taxation and to position the Administration where it belongs. I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16923	Please, is there any further discussion on the proposal for a conclusion? I am putting forward a proposal for the conclusion of the College's plea. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives with 26 votes in favour, 3 against and 6 abstentions and a sufficient entity majority accepted this conclusion and thus ended the 8th point of the agenda. Our commission on Mr Andrić's proposal already has clear tasks and, naturally, the Commission is tasked with monitoring this issue in the context of what Mr Beriz Belkić was talking about. We're moving to agenda nine. Ad.9. Information from the Council of Ministers on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty with neighbouring countries We included this item on the agenda during the debate on today's agenda. The relevant services of the Council of Ministers have been notified. So far, we have no information, no oral information, no written information, and, I, too, in the same way as the previous agenda point, so we ask the Council of Ministers to provide us with information in written form, and then be the agenda of the next session. Here, we've already defined a few agenda points for the next session today. I am opening a debate on the proposal for this conclusion of the College. Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16924	... a conclusion, or a proposal from the College, which went in the direction of getting out of this whole situation, but, really, when it comes to my relationship, I believe that the club, too, because it happens quickly, that it has crossed every line. Is it a problem to report, a message to someone, we'll be there in half an hour and five sentences to this House to tell. Really, we won't support it, we're asking that it just opens up, simply Mr. Špirić, we won't continue to participate in the alibi, etc. And we will not bear responsibility. Mr. Minister or Madam Minister will come, and I don't know who the Rossoran is, so that five sentences can be spoken here to Parliament. Go ahead, let them know what's going on. We're going to initiate a government shift procedure. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16925	I thank Mr. Beriz Belkić. Is there anyone else who wants to talk about the proposal? Mr. Ćeman, then Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16926	Very short. And I, as an apostle, therefore, really believe that, above all, the obligation, but also correctly upon request, is to come and explain. It may also be an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to explain the policy it is leading. In other words, it moves within what is provided for in the agreements and laws in this area. I do not understand such a relationship, and I simply want to say here as an MP, that I condemn and do not support such a relationship with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16927	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16928	Mr. Chairman, I mean, I'm assuming that the College will come up with some reasonable proposal that I'd be happy to show myself about. It's not my phone. Don't look at me like that. I would only suggest that you consider it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16929	Here's Dr. Lagumdžija. Look what we're doing, instead of replacing the incompetent Council of Ministers, we're irritated by the chairman. What we're going to do is, that's the parliament that's breaking itself down to the lowest possible measure. Go ahead, go ahead. I'm asking you not to throw it away while Dr. Lagumdžija speaks.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16930	Gentlemen of the Star College, I'd like to ask you, indeed, to go with some reasonable, smart proposal. And why would I suggest that? She's really out of line. If, look at my colleague Belkić, if he has come to this point, you can think, which is, Mr. Ćeman deplores the right, I fully support your discussion at a completely inappropriate relationship between the Council of Ministers in the agenda of suspensions with two neighbouring countries and with a statement that it is practically something that violates the relations of this country with the European Union and its neighbours. This is where the foreign minister needed to come to us together with the chairman to tell us what the international implications of this were. To tell us the minister or minister, excuse me, the vault, if she came back from the world, from Sarajevo to Japan, from Japan to New York, from New York to Sarajevo, to tell us what this all means. I, indeed, ask you, what if another man told you to come out with any reasonable proposal that will bring this pay phone here, bring one of them in, tell us which 56 disasters here... economic, international, legal and whatever you want. This whole thing even loses its sports character. That's why, sir, I'm sorry, gentlemen of the full college, I'm asking you to come out with any proposal that will preserve the face of this country, at least on an elementary level. Because this stops being like any serious society, what we're doing today. I don't see the point of being participated at all, namely, we all become accomplices. Tomorrow, a high representative wakes up and says, "What are you doing, so we don't like teaching people here, which we are obviously starting to do... example, I'm asking you all to get a little serious together.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16931	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić asked for a word. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16932	My fellow Members and fellow Members, I think it is always good for something to happen, so that we can figure out where we are, at what level we are bringing Parliament, the state parliament. I said that the government or the Council of Ministers, in the way it works, will discredit this parliament in the eyes of the public. I'm sorry it's happening. I don't divide people into representatives of the majority and opposition, and I don't think this is the goal of the opposition. I think at this point we should, not give a break for an hour, because it's impossible, we won't get anything, but to interrupt the session at this point, schedule it in five, seven days, when the Council sends information that it is ready to report to this House. It's the only decision for me to make to the public... if we were the state parliament. I ask you not to find either us Parliament, nor those Council of Ministers, so I think that's the most rational solution that on Tuesday, Wednesday, here's when we estimate, when the Council of Ministers says it can, there are a few points left, and I think this is also a way to get the situation serious. This is a serious matter when it is suspended, the international and interstate contracts are extended, I will not speak, whether the Council of Ministers has arguments or not, but it is mandatory, because we are obliged to defend it politically in the eyes of the public, to say that we agree or disagree. I didn't mean to open political debates today, to slip away, because this is a very serious situation. So, I propose and demand that we plead, at this point, that the session be suspended, that the chair also be chaired by the College in agreement with the chairman of the Council of Ministers, MPs be informed when the session continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16933	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Adem Huskić. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16934	I'm Mr. Chairman, reporting from the previous point, because you asked me not to answer again, but here, I think you'll allow me a chance to answer the discussion now. I think that there are too many people in this country in an unserious way to interpret a very serious topic and I think it can be said for us, perhaps not quite, but one part sure that, but I also accept part of the responsibility for myself, but I must admit that we have created a folk theater about serious things and happiness, so there is no respect for Mr. Kunić's request that people do not see us as we talk about serious things. I'd like to help the College formulate the conclusion. I think that the issue of economic reforms, and this is the issue, is a very important issue, that all BiH citizens are expecting both the Council of Ministers and this Parliament to do something to improve the general situation, and that is why I suggest that it be dedicated, not to interrupt now, but to schedule a special House session on this subject. I think he deserves it. I don't know when the conditions come to that. I'm afraid... in the Council of Ministers, normally I also join all colleagues who have condemned the Council of Ministers' relationship to this home, but I don't think, in fact, I'm sure that the problem lies only there, I think the problem is a little wider. At the end of the line, I personally think most people here and most citizens don't know who's responsible for the success, for the failure of reforms, is that the Directorate for indirect taxation, because we've authorized them to be the cap behind everything, is that OHR, is that the Council of Ministers, is it the Parliamentary Assembly, who is it? I think that at one meeting of the Assembly, I say, committed only to defining who is who is leading the overall reforms, but especially economic reforms and who will be responsible for success and failure and to prepare ourselves well and to make quality conclusions. The way we've been working so far, I don't think it's appropriate and I don't think it's consistent with the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16935	Okay. Who else wants to talk? So, in the debate so far, two suggestions have been made. First there was a proposal from the College, so then, some members of the College pointed out new suggestions in relation to that earlier proposal that I presented on behalf of the College, I mean, just as things were going on, as they were happening. Since, obviously, the College is not behind this proposal, but there are now members of the College who propose, in line with the discussions that were here and the new proposals, we have two possible outcomes. We'll make a statement about both of us and vote. In fact, whoever gets most will be Parliament's decision. First, so, like this, if I can get the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16936	Mr. Šefik Džaferović, chairman of the office, answered the words. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16937	So I'd like to just draw attention to a few facts to draw them out, not blur things out. So this wasn't the agenda point planned for today's session. She's on the agenda today for a debate on the agenda. I think that you, as Parliament, should have the understanding that when we ask for some information during the day that there may be some objective circumstances why this information cannot come to Parliament during the same day, I think that would be correct on our part. I would like to inform you that you know that the services of Parliament have acted immediately after this is included as a item of the agenda and have informed the relevant services of the Council of Ministers that this is on the agenda today and that this information is necessary. And I think, with that, that it would be much more correct and much more responsible, in my opinion, than this Parliament, today we conclude, on this agenda point, that we are asking the Council of Ministers for written information and that we are working on it at the next session, and that today we continue the debate on all the points of the agenda, which we already have listed as the points of the agenda of this session. However, this is my proposal now as chairman. However, there is another proposal here, and this is a proposal that today Parliament practically demonstrates, is that it will interrupt the session, because it has no information and requires the Council of Ministers in the next few days to deliver information and hold a session. That's what gets him on the same page. In my opinion, therefore, with that difference, we're not going to do this planned part of the job today, which is planned. But here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to do both of these proposals. I went out here for a pay phone to say this as a discussion, but I'm going to put both of these proposals to the vote, and as Parliament decides on that, that's how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16938	Replica. Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16939	I don't know if it's a replica or not. If this were, by any chance, a happy country, a serious country, a government that would decide to take the move that it took, it would not ask us to ask, but would ask a session of parliament to say that it had decided to suspend the international and interstate agreements, so we would stand behind that government. So we don't have to suck all the time. It would be the government's responsibility, and that's why I don't think we would, which is why I wanted to preserve the dignity and the Council of Ministers, not to talk about the Council of Ministers today, and it seems to me that I've handled the maximum level of responsibility for the state of BiH, to end a bad story, but to interrupt the session and that the vjeće of Ministers is saying everything that it has to say. If it's written, if it's oral, it's better written. This protects the integrity of the vijeće of Instincts. It will not lose anything, but this parliament will boost the credibility of the people. So, not one MP, but all MPs. Here, that was the goal. If we keep the Council of Ministers' dignity, which works this way, let us preserve the 59th dignity of Parliament. That's why it was my suggestion. Believe not to blame either the Council of Ministers or anyone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16940	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Zorić still asked for a word, and then we'll move on to a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16941	I'm looking for a half-hour break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16942	At the request of the HDZ Club, a 30-minute break. Thank you. I'll see you at 2:00 and 20 minutes. PAUZA Poslanica, time to rest, at the request of the HDZ Club, has expired. We're going back to work. We closed the debate, then the president of the HDZ Club asked for a break on behalf of the club, and he hasn't shown up in the O.R. yet. Is there a position of the HDZ Club? Or if there's a need. Where's the club president? He's going this way. All right. I can't wait any longer. We're going back to work. Does anyone outside the HDZ Club want to talk after the break? There's no one here. All right. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, I have been informed by the services of the Council of Ministers during this break, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is on his way out of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as far as I know, and the other members of the Council of Ministers are at a meeting in the fire-fighting of the European Commission and therefore cannot be present at this meeting today. So, this is, I can't join the session today. Written information will be provided, and then Parliament will declare its written information. So we have two proposals, and now we're going to get to the bottom of both of these proposals. They're shutting each other down. Depending on how Parliament is determined it will be. The first proposal is not to interrupt the session today, to put this 9th item of the agenda, related to free trade contracts, to ask the Council of Ministers to deliver information in writing and to put it as a part of the agenda at the first next session, and to continue working today. And, the second proposal, Mr Špirić's proposal, is that we immediately interrupt the session at the moment, ask the Council of Ministers for written information and continue the session when that information arrives, in agreement with the Council ofminsitarians. That's how I understood Mr. Špirić's suggestion. 60 I am the first to ask for this proposal today in writing information from the Council of Ministers and to make this the point of the next session, and to continue working now. I'm putting it to a vote. Vote now. 12 for, 23 against, 2 abstentions. My proposal did not receive Parliament's support. We put Mr Nikola Špirić's proposal on the vote, to interrupt the session at this time and then, in agreement with the Council of Ministers, to schedule as soon as possible, requesting written information. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 24 for, 9 against, 4 abstentions, sufficient entity majority, 12 - 12. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina has decided to interrupt today's session at this point of the agenda. I'm announcing, therefore, that we interrupt today's session. Next session, continue this session for the next week, no later than ten days from today, depends on consultations and talks with the Council of Ministers. That's what this college's gonna decide on. So, for your session to continue, it won't be that ten days until the session, but it could be a day or two before the session to get a written call. Thank you very much. The seat was interrupted at 14.45 p.m. 61 Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished guests, we are continuing the work of the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I welcome you all and express my welcome. I would like to inform you that we have 33 MPs present in the room right now, so we have conditions for normal work, full work and decision-making. Today they announced their absence from this session of Mrs. Leho Fatima and Mr. Avdić Sead and they are on the official road. Mrs. Bešlagić Selim, Mrs. Ruža Sopta and Mr. Abdulah Nakaš also announced a leave from today's session. About the other absences I do not have, yes, I have just been informed that Mr Ivo Miro Jović has some obligations and that during the session, during the course of the session, he will join the session today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we interrupted last session at the 9th item of the agenda called Ad.9. Information from the Council of Ministers on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries You are immediately before the start of the session, or this may still be the duration of the distribution received Information from the Council of Ministers in writing. Here are members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. I welcome him on behalf of this house and my personal name. So we continue our session with the Council of Ministers' Information on the temporary suspension of certain provisions of the free trade agreement with neighbouring countries. You know that this item of the agenda was included at the beginning of this session on the proposal of you MPs and on your decision. You've got the information. I'm opening the debate. If the chairman of the Council of Ministers wants to address the information at first, I think it would be good, because we got the information right before the session started. Then I give you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16944	Dear President, the esteemed College, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, if the question is whether the chairman wants it, I would rather not, but as far as I understand it, it is my obligation and MPs have asked me to submit information regarding the Council of Ministers' decision on free trade agreements with Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. I must admit that I am surprised that the House of Representatives is so quick to seek information on the Council of Ministers' decision and I feel that this is not a good practice in principle and that we must trust that the Council of Ministers makes decisions that are important both for Bosnia and Herzegovina and for the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we expect support for this rather than for priority. Today we have shared the reasons for the information and the reasoning of the decision for both Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to take up much of your time, I just want to say that applying the Free Trade Treaty with both countries, especially since 1.1.2004, all goods coming from Serbia and Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia are at a zero customs rate. We were also warned in 2003 by farmers and processors in Bosnia and Herzegovina from both entities that they would have problems with the consistent application of the Free Trade Treaty. You know that even before 1.1.2004 those contracts were unilaterally terminated and there was a huge pressure on the Council of Ministers, I think you had a debate on the subject, that these contracts were unilaterally cancelled. It would be a big problem and it would be a big blow for Bosnia and Herzegovina because the basic, fundamental element of our European path is the consistent keeping of signed contracts and meeting signed contracts. We have also tried with the Government of Serbia-Montenegro, and in particular with the Government of the Republic of Croatia to explain that in this segment of agricultural products Bosnia and Herzegovina has a problem and since free trade agreements with each country, not only from these two countries, but from each country, especially focus on agricultural production as a particularly sensitive branch and treat the problems that can arise when it comes to agricultural products, we have tried to come from both governments to negotiate and talk in a way that is prescribed in free trade contracts to discuss the subject of signing an annex contract which would then focus only three chapters from customs tariffs and allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to when the issue of goods from those three heads is still to keep one level of customs burden in order to say that we should not use the word to protect, in order to leave room for agricultural producers and processors in Bosnia and Herzegovina to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try, to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to try to the Government to the Government to the Government of the Government of the Government Now let me say something about the measure we have taken towards Serbia-Montenegro. So we signed an agreement with Serbia-Montenegro, not us but Bosnia and Herzegovina signed an agreement with Serbia-Montenegro before this Council of Ministers came and the basic element of the agreement is that the agreement will be implemented with respect to the fact that neither Serbia-Montenegro nor Bosnia and Herzegovina are members of the VTO, that the agreement will be implemented exclusively under the rules of the VTO and GAT. These rules 63 state strictly that export subsidies are not allowed when it comes to free trade. Therefore, any State signatories of the Free Trade Agreement may, in accordance with its economic power and its economic policy, etc. subsidise direct production. But it is absolutely forbidden to subsidise exports and not only is the rule of VTO and GAT, but it is also a rule strictly adhered to by the EU. At the end of last year, we discovered that the government of the Republic of Serbia decided in April 2004 to subsidise agricultural products exports. And they published in the official list a list of 50 agricultural products that subsidise with a certain percentage. We, using the rules, exclusively the rules of the treaty, did not come out of the Free Trade Treaty, so we asked for a meeting of the mixed committee that was held and on which our team made it clear that this was a violation of the Free Trade Treaty, that it was a flagrant violation of the VTO and GAT rules and that we were asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw that measure immediately. And we left 15 days for that measure to be withdrawn. Representatives of Serbia-Montenegro in the mixed committee made it clear that they believe they are not members of the VTO, as they are not, and that the VTO rules do not apply to them. After the end of 15 days, we decided to introduce a customs burden measure for agricultural products listed in the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to charge them with the amount for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia subsidises exports to Bosnia and Herzegovina. Surely that decision did not come immediately at the start of approval from Serbia-Montenegro, however, as you see in the later development of the event it is something that is simply not, as some MPs in this house were concerned, did not endanger the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia-Montenegro and, more importantly, did not endanger the relations between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission. I will remind you that we made these two decisions two days before Mr Pride and the representatives of the European Commission came to the CTF in Sarajevo. We did so two days ago so that we could clearly and accurately elaborate on the CTF why we made that decision and not leave room for them to be informed by the governments of neighbouring countries. And I have to admit, we didn't have any problems here. I won't even say that they're thrilled that we did it, but those of the European Commission said that if these procedures take place under the procedures prescribed by the Free Trade Treaty itself, then they have nothing against it. So the Free Trade Treaty has made it clear with Serbia-Montenegro that if it is agricultural products, the country that has the problem in that part raises the issue on this, on the mixed committee and after the start of the issue, until the issue on the mixed committee is resolved it has the right to adopt certain measures it considers appropriate so that I think essentially everything the Council of Ministers has done has done in the context of the procedure prescribed by the Free Trade Treaty itself. When it comes to Croatia, there is a slightly different problem. We tried and Minister Doko and the government of Prime Minister Račan before taking effect zero rates towards goods from Croatia, the Free Trade Treaty in 1.1.2004, and 64 in particular with the government of Prime Minister Senader, we tried to explain that we in this category of three headings, three tariffs, three head of customs tariffs have a huge problem when it comes to domestic agricultural production and processing. What was our argument to the authorities in the Republic of Croatia is that, let's say for last year, Croatia exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina a billion and 100 million KM goods, various species. These three heads that directly hit our agricultural production carry something below 90 million KM. So for Croatia as an exporter in Bosnia and Herzegovina, that 90 million from a billion to 100 million does not mean much, and for us it means disaster. We were trying to come into a position with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia to negotiate with the authorities on the signing of an annex contract which will then allow for the next year two days until we make one serious system of how to help our agricultural producers, together with entity governments, and immediately to say this exclusively business of entity governments, to sign this contract annex, and thus to show that the Republic of Croatia also cares about what happens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. So I'm talking about the ratio of imports from Croatia billion and 100 million KM, compared to something below 90 million for these three tariff heads. However, despite a series of promises and Prime Minister Senader and this Minister Čebanković towards Minister Doki, we have never been able to do so. True, in our last sighting with Prime Minister Senader in November last year, we had a promise that they would do so before the local elections, but here, as you can see, the issue has been addressed since the EU accession negotiations began, so probably for objective reasons we could not discuss the issue. Then we decided to strictly apply the Free Trade Treaty. Article 13. The Free Trade Agreement with the Republic of Croatia makes it clear that, regardless of what, other members who are treating the procedure, if the state has a problem with agricultural production, this problem should be launched on a mixed committee and until the issue of a mixed committee is resolved to submit, to adopt certain measures it deems appropriate. We held a mixed committee with the Republic of Croatia, announced that we would bring these measures and ask to start negotiations on a mixed committee to sign an annex contract. So, as you will see from this information the reasons for this information to the Republic of Croatia, we simply did not absolutely violate any element of the signed free trade contracts. I was in Brussels the day before yesterday and with Prime Minister Koštunica and Prime Minister Senader and we agreed that this issue would be resolved exactly as I said the free trade agreement would be resolved in a way that we would try through mixed committees to reach the possibility that the request of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the signing of the Anex Free Trade Agreement would be justified. This is about what I think might be enough for you MPs to realize that when it comes to Council of Ministers' activities on this matter we simply do nothing that affects or harms Bosnia and Herzegovina. I think the reactions we had from farmers and processors from all over 65 Bosnia and Herzegovina say in this direction that we did not make a decision ad hoc and that we did not make decisions that did not directly help calm the current situation. So we and the Republic of Croatia have decided that for these three heads, only parts of three chapters of this tariff applicable to meat, poultry, milk and dairy products and meat processing and pig meat, excuse me, to return the customs burden that was in 2003. I expect that in the next period, by negotiating through mixed committees with both states, I mean in principle with Serbia. At this point, I have nothing to negotiate except that they abolish their decision so that we can end ours. We have negotiations with Croatia on the signing of the Annex treaty and I think the time has finally come and it is clear that the policy in agricultural production is being run by entities. Certainly, even if free trade contracts did not hit so much our agricultural production and processing that the entities ran politics and that through subsidies to agricultural producers, based on the advances collected for import goods, they simply prepared Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture for the consistent application of the free trade agreement. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16945	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this was, in addition to the written here, the oral information of the Council of Ministers on the problem we were looking for. I think if anyone had any questions only, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, so let's hear those questions that the chairman of the answers at the end, because I repeat the agenda point was information and we got the information. We've had situations like this before. Here's a word from Mr. Mladen Potočnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16946	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Terzić, this parliament has asked you more than a year ago to review free trade contracts and even proposed that they be abolished. You didn't react then and you just reacted a year later under pressure from a particular segment of the Bosnian Herzegovic economy. Doesn't that seem unfair to you on the one hand, wrongly, wrongly, and on the other hand incorrectly to other entities of the Bosnian Herzegovician economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16947	Thank you. Do any of the other esteemed colleagues want to make a comment, a question? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16948	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. The topic is too serious and with all due respect, I am a professor, but Mr. Terzić is not my student to travel it. So neither were any of us here in that function. We searched for this information and went through a shameful session of the House of Representatives, after which yesterday the House of Peoples gave us a lesson in how it is done when the Council of Ministers does not attend the session, so this cannot be the point of questions and answers. We have parliamentary questions and answers every time, and the Council of Ministers will never suit us. This information she had for the occasion, remember how you came to her to solve problems that were more than evident because of this decision by the Council of Ministers. I'm going to naturally ask some questions, but questions can't be like a quiz, because it's too serious to behave like that. And this, Prime Minister climate-headed, I take it as an approval, and I think it's getting along pretty well at the beginning. Of course. First of all, I want to say that in this information that we have received, except for the numbers of tariffs, there is not one single figure, so in itself, the question of what the effect of this decision towards Croatia is, on the one hand, towards Serbia-Montenegro on the other hand at the monthly level, because to assume that this decision will be just a signal to our neighbours and to us that the matter is being systematically solved, so I don't think there's any need to make an assessment at an annual level. Because if we end this like a year, then we haven't gone far. I also expect to give us an answer as to why the Council of Ministers, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, told us the following day after the decision through a daily newspaper in which people like to go out in the natural size that it is in a dilemma whether to disrupt relations with the EU and its neighbours on the one hand and break obligations towards agricultural producers, the prime ministers of the Council of Ministers have opted to disrupt relations with the EU and neighbours. Naturally. I too, if I were to be in a position to disrupt relations with someone else and with the citizens of my country, would always violate relations with others regardless of who it is. But I'm afraid we owe one argument, because what we got here including the introductory notes where there were more digits than there were in the information, because the information wasn't even a single digit, we'd do well to be told that these were saved farmers, because no analysis we did shows me that. In fact, this decision is actually the protection of a group of privileged importing criminal circles in this country. And throwing fog into the eyes of the public that it's about protecting agriculture. In order not to be unclear, an analysis which, for which it should not be spectacularly informed, shows that of what the prime minister spoke about last year, imports from Croatia of 559 million and 264 thousand 125 marks only 86 million wastes on this 67 which has been suspended from. In other words, the products with these 86 million have been suspended since we return to 2003, so 40% of customs...5 and 10, and 7%, respectively, will come to the conclusion that the effect on Croatia is around 20,000 marks per month in this crowd, 20,000 marks. If it wanted to be protected, it could be taken, for example, tobacco and water, so the effect would be incomparably greater from Croatia alone. So this is about the selective protection of a group of importing criminal lobbys that walk around and even some of them, I'm sorry there aren't any members of all the committees here. The Finance Commission asked the question – how is it that the interstate delegation negotiating with neighbouring countries has representatives of companies that are directly interested together in authorising the Council of Ministers. This is said at the Finance Commission. So it's something that just doesn't take us anywhere. I would also like to answer the question – why the law of Article 2 is not respected. The Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which came several times to this Parliament and adopted on 29 June 2004 and at the end of 20.12.2004, which is obliged by the Council of Ministers to inform us, Article 2., for the purpose of monitoring the implementation of the Foreign Trade Ministry Act and three months after the application of this law, of the results of this legislation. This has been over half a year, we haven't received any information because the state budget is damaged by this import of junk that's only in the function of smugglers for 40 million marks. And that's why we didn't even get any information. And if the current member of the Bosnia and Herzegovina presidency responds in court because he has damaged the budget, then on the same basis, some people who are now leading this country can sit in court tomorrow because they have damaged the budget by 40 million, only on this basis. All I can say is they didn't know what they were doing. That's why they're required under the law to inform us so we can tell them what they're doing. And that's why they don't need to be asked, they need some things to say, because they don't know people. And now that you tell them this, they won't be able to say in court tomorrow that they didn't know. So it's obviously one in the scene of one crisis coalition and stealing in this country that is cheaply demagogy through any mercenaries and smugglers who have only seen a plum from agriculture on call and are driving expensive cars, and we are being lectured here in front of Parliament and sitting in state delegations, and these people are giving us a lecture on how those sausages protect domestic economic production. These things should be said in this House. I also expect the chairman of the Council of Ministers to tell us what the situation is otherwise with free trade agreements. This is the government of the Alliance. To me, I apologize to counterpart Hadžiahmetović, to correct me, free trade contracts were inherited by the previous government as a result of the positive processes that she had done before us. Positive processes. After the Stability Pact that we were all proud of in Sarajevo, it moved towards regional integration to make this region a faster part of the EU. As a result of such processes and processes opened by the people sitting here, Mr. Raguž can correct me if I'm wrong. He is as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, before I sat down to sign a free trade agreement with Croatia as part of the arrangement with the EU and part of the arrangement under the Stability Pact. And Minister Hadžiahmetović 68 signed three other contracts that are in force from Turkey, Macedonia, or Serbia-Montenegro, to correct me. And this current government is four more on the trail. And that's why we got all the praises in Brussels, but unfortunately here, it's trying to explain to people with cheap demagogy that who's being saved by these beings by seeing that in the budget 20,000 marks are saved per month on this basis, and all the analyses show the first 20 days after the application that these products that are so to say are being stopped from importers from other countries, and not domestic products. So again the water boils, the water cools, only the result that as the prime minister says, we no longer have good neighbourly relations and relations with the EU as we have. So I would ask, in addition to answering these few questions, that in future information like this we are not valued, that we are told every time analytically what it all means. We are on the Commission for Finance where recently votes 4:3, but will come to this parliament to refuse to amend and supplement the Excise Act with an explanation that we have not analytically explained this enough. And it comes from the same people who are now analytically giving us philosophical tracts about life, and it's expanding with a column to a free trade that doesn't have a single digit. Mr. Chairman, you have honored this House by not coming last time, which you have not spoken to us on any other subject, you have honored Parliament which tomorrow your minister and you, if there is justice and justice, will answer before the law that you did not comply with the law which obliged you to tell us, after three months of what happened to that amendment of the law that you approved the import of that junk, food for the needs of smugglers. And you will answer because you did not respect a member of the law that says you are obliged to give us information every three months. And you didn't give every three months that's 10 million a month. You'll be held accountable for your indemnity. I hope so, just for that. So I'd like to ask that a few conclusions be adopted here. The first conclusion - that within three months we are given an analysis of the effects of this decision, and let them do with it whatever they think they should do. I'm not thinking of recommending a more radical conclusion, because I want to be a serious man, I'm not going to test you as long as you're ready, but just one conclusion to give an impact analysis in three months, not an analysis of which one poet can write, but some economist write this. The second conclusion – that within three months before Parliament, we are on the agenda of the agenda to be prepared by the Council of Ministers, the elements of a single policy to encourage production in this country, with a special emphasis on the reform of agriculture in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I guess no one will mind, even if it comes from me. I also suggest that the Council of Ministers be ordered to run an analysis, a real analysis of the financial effects of this, of this decision, and that within 7 days it is foreshadowed to us, perhaps on the Foreign Trade Commission or finance and the budget, or I don't know where to get this together so we don't go any further in the sun. 69 And I also ask that Parliament be determined, I do not ask it to be a conclusion, but Mr Chairman, it would be logical for you to remind yourself, that it is not only my request to this council of ministers to comply with the laws that he himself has proposed, above all those elements concerning obligations to this Parliament, as is the obligation under Article 2. The law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act since last year, which was twice ahead of us. And in the end, I want to make another appointment under the agreement itself as a whole of the agreements. The interest of this country is to have and to develop free trade with as many countries as possible in the region, but it is our interest to be prepared for it, and therefore the Council of Ministers is unable to put out the fire itself, decided to push a cowardly egg called a suspension of the decision on free trade with Croatia, with the effects that I have just provided here and to ask the Council of Ministers to finally start working on the creation of institutional assumptions for free trade, and not to constantly return to the mistakes of previous councils of ministers, both those in which I and Azra sat, and the one where Martin sat for the first time, i.e., pardon the second time. It was the first time we sat down in '92. in the same council.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16949	Thank you. The word seeks the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Adnan Terzić, and then we will continue with the MPs. We have three colleagues reported here for discussion, Mr. Moranjkić, Belkić and Gligorić have applied for the time being, and Jovanović has also joined. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16950	Well, here's because Mr Lagumdžija spoke for a long time, I'm afraid I'm going to forget the very important, very important questions he's asked. First, let me say when it comes to the responsibility that we are crystal clear, at least to all those who are seriously considering politics and the way they are working at this point, that your program, Mr. Lagumdžija, is not prescribed there from '42, '43. For years, pure Bolsheviks who refer to foreign occupiers and domestic traitors can only lead to someone being tried. That's normal. I am prepared to answer for every decision of the Council of Ministers, not just before Parliament, but before any court, and I know that the mass of people had a problem with the movements that you belong to and that I will have. And what we're doing right now is just trying to help the agricultural producers in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the processors, and I think the analyses you're looking for are supposed to have when you're signing contracts. I never said that the problem for this country is that it has a free trade agreement and I absolutely agree that this is the thing that was key after the Stability Pact, 70 that after the Stability Pact was a key engagement of the government and support for one idea of creating a free trade contract network across the South East European region. However, the fact is that today with the Council of Ministers and with the Resort Ministry, people who directly process directly talk about the situation of farmers. If the teams that were preparing free trade contracts were sitting down these people shouldn't be sitting on these committees right now. Why? Because people have an objective problem. I don't think we're going to be taken anywhere by the story, and it's directly the opposite, my position is directly contrary to yours, to the hickey's questioning of the demand for responsibility, etc. We won't be taken anywhere by a story about what content is and what free trade contracts are like. We have them and we have to use them. And I don't want to argue at all whether any council of ministers signed, wrong or not when they signed free trade contracts. I just want to enter into the debate that free trade contracts have been applied, consistent application of free trade contracts has created a problem in this segment of primary production, agricultural production and processing and that they, that we have to respond to it. And the answer to Mr Potočnik isn't that we didn't do anything from that session of Parliament when you asked even the termination of the free trade agreement. The crowd was meeting, the crowd was trying to get out of this situation. But you are also crystal clear that the position of this council of ministers is that the surrounding governments use the benefits they received from that contract. They won. They got it objectively. Why didn't Mr. Lagumdžija talk about tobacco and water? Because we're trying through this undeniably and with least damage when it comes to the relationship between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and you've quantified it with 20,000 marks, KM monthly. So it wasn't us, as you announced, that made a problem with the neighbouring government. There's no problem for 20,000 KM. And you're 100% right. So we are through this segment that directly affects our agricultural production tried and tried and I assure you, I assure you that we will succeed, whether it pleases you or not, to come into a position to discuss the content of the free trade and agriculture contracts, but also other aspects of the free trade agreement. And we don't have to stick our heads in the sand. For example, the free trade agreement with Croatia allowed Croatia to take over from other countries that exported to Bosnia and Herzegovina's gross trade with Bosnia and Herzegovina and because that is how we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia not to cause a problem in these four heads. Why? Because you say it's about 20,000 KM a month. But those 20,000 KMs also hit our agricultural producers on a monthly basis. I think the conclusion you suggested, I'm not sure that there's some great wisdom and I expected you to come out here, after all your media advances, that you'll come up with concrete conclusions that will help solve the situation. Let's say the conclusion that you're proposing that the Council of Ministers do what is exclusively the jurisdiction of entity governments. Be careful, the Council of Ministers does, that the Council of Ministers 71 do what is exclusively the jurisdiction of entity governments. Be careful, the Council of Ministers in Agriculture has some coordinating role and something that comes down to the work of European observers at the time of the war, if you remember those in the white departments. The entity governments are a key factor in addressing the issue of agricultural producers, and they need to ask that question, and you are, it is crystal clear to you because at a time when you were in a position to lead the Council of Ministers you did nothing to convince your party colleague, Mr. Behmen, to do the measures that you are proposing now. So these are constitutional powers exclusively of entity governments and don't ask the Council of Ministers to do these things. Why didn't we go out with these quantifications? Well, we didn't go out to give you room so you could play large numbers and scare the current government. You have some information and I agree that they are yours, they absolutely don't answer the truth, but it won't help if we give you the right information. We have the right information. And the real data, as far as we understand this debate is concerned, has not been requested, and there is no problem in delivering the real data when it comes to quantifying the trade exchange and the heads we were talking about. I must admit that it is very difficult at this point to give an accurate quantification of relations with Serbia-Montenegro because of this percentage fact, the government of the Republic of Serbia in percentages has given certain subsidies for agricultural products so that we cannot get out with precision with that data. But here I think it's actually something that you can do. But again, I assure you, this Council of Ministers has come into this position, among other things, and what entity governments have told farmers clearly in the last year – free trade contracts mean both prime ministers and ministers of agriculture, free trade contracts have made a problem for us, cut our budgets, go to the Council of Ministers to cancel the free trade agreement. And that was all the intervention of entity governments in agricultural production over the past period. I know you will use these findings for your political promotion, but any political promotion, Mr. Lagumdžija, will not help farmers. It will help farmers to sit down, talk to them in a constant dialogue, try to find a solution to their problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16951	I thank Prime Minister Adnan Terzić. This is Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16952	I thank Mr. Chairman, and I especially thank Prime Minister Terzić, when he found it appropriate to respond even this way. We had the analysis of Mr. Terzić when we signed the contracts, and if you don't have these analyses, ask Mr. Doka to find it in the archives of previous Minister Azra Hadžiahmetović. Also, I want to tell you that you can ask your gentleman between you and Doka, who brings you together Mr Hurtić, for an analysis from which you will see that for agriculture in the 72 Federation of my party friend Alija Behmen, during his prime ministership was given more to encourage agriculture from the federal budget than during his predecessor Bičakčić and Hadžipašić who are coming, these are your party comrades and I have nothing effective against. Also, I want to tell you, yes, you said that you made a problem with your neighbours and with the European Union, that's not what I said, and you published it in the paper, and then you tell us that it was really for 20,000 marks, which I calculated for you. I'm glad if you don't have a problem with your neighbors for this, but those diplomatic notes that are being exchanged speak in favor of how much those 20,000 marks cost a month. I think it's completely unnecessary, not to say stupid. That's why I'd be talking about bigger numbers now. The country's problem, the growth of the trade deficit, which has risen from 2.4 billion euros to 3.2 billion euros in these two years. You'll see now Hurtić will nod, so I suggest the third conclusion. That the Council of Ministers prepares us within a month information on the country's trade deficit and the emergency programme to reduce the trade deficit, because in every country in the world that would be the reason for an emergency session. I guess it's enough for you for a month, and if you can't, we'll get you ready. And, finally, I want to tell you that the problem is that you and your minister haven't done anything in two years to solve the assumptions systemically for the effective implementation of the free trade contract, and if you don't know what it is to look for, let them give you the conclusions that I suggested for this pay phone a year and a half ago, which, apparently, remained, or nowhere else, have passed through you. And, in the end, I'm saying that I don't propose any measures I don't even know what years. I think we should stimulate production, not ransom, because it's all upside down here and if you do this... that we talked about, you're, like, serious people talking about. In the end, I want to tell you that 42% of the BiH population, i.e. 1.6 million people, live in rural areas and, most tragic of these 42% of the population, there are 82% of all the poor in this country and we owe them, and not to which the smuggling gang, which is the most tragic of these 42% of the population, such as these 40 million, who have earned on imports of garbage, which children eat and process in their bellies, which I have spoken about, but this will be opportunities in court, if it is not the rule of law, and it has nothing to do with foreign occupiers and domestic traitors, but with criminals, which, you did not answer me to the question, which I have simply asked, and this is why they did not give us information under the law that they were obliged to give us every three months in that law, by which 40 million of our budgets, you have answered it, you didn't answer to the country't answer to the law that you. Ask Ruža and she'll tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16953	Mr. Lagumdžija, the replica lasts up to three minutes. Please hold. The replica can take up to three minutes maximum. The speaker of the Council of Ministers called again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16954	How I didn't answer you for those people who are in the delegations. If they were in delegations when the contracts were signed, you wouldn't have to work with them for two years. So we have an open dialogue with representatives of agricultural producers and processors. If you have any intelligence or other information about these people, it's your business. Normally, when you come, you'll put it all in the law like you did two years ago, but then we work directly with agricultural producers, representatives of the association and processors. Gospdine Lagumždija, I don't think I should argue with you about this pay phone first. The other thing, well, Mr. Beriz, if you think I'm interested in doing this, you asked me to come. I do when there's no problem. When I get there, I'm not interesting. I don't know what it is, what you want from me now. I'm begging you not to come, when I don't come, then I'm tearing down the dignity of the House, when I come, then I'm not interesting, here's the Zlatko.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16955	Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16956	I was talking about the relationship between BiH and the European Union and this neighbouring countries, in response to the journalistic question that you have raised, because you said that the Council of Ministers made a decision the same day, that the Council of Ministers made a decision that is disastrous for BiH, etc. Then I said that if there was going to be a problem, and now I'm telling you, no problem, Mr. Lagumdžija, what you were expecting, you got. So neither Croatia nor Serbia nor Montenegro are making, they are rebelling a bit, but that's all right. The European Commission, we have not broken our relations with the European Commission and I think that in one very open way and with one country and another, we will be able to fix some things, which, among other things, we have broken. When it comes to the trade deficit. So, we're, I'm gonna have the great pleasure of presenting that information to you. We took over this country with a disastrously high trade deficit, which was unremembered in BiH of 49% compared to, you know, what. So, by 9% we're down in 2003, but you're going to get full information, not to throw away the numbers, but it's going to be a great pleasure to show you what kind of a trade deficit this country is, what we've taken over, and what it is now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16957	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. The next word came from Mr. Moranjkić Muhamed, to prepare Mr. Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16958	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my part of the participation in this report with two questions. First, what is considered a subsidy, which is within the scope of this contract, a visa, which is a direct and indirect subsidy, and I, when I looked at this information, could conclude that the analyses were taken directly and very little, and indirect in general, and that one large part of one who knows the problem of injury and the particular problem in agricultural production, must also conclude that indirect subsidies, which are not mentioned and which are very difficult to respond to in response to part of the contract, which are made up, are practically a problem for agricultural producers. So please, if there is any analysis in the responses and in the continued work of the Council of Ministers, especially our ministry which is directly in this problem to take this as well. I, the visa, will just say one word – two, so let's say that indirect subsidies know only on one product, say imports of live cattle, as cattle do not have to be subsidized, but food that is 80% of the cost, it is an indirect subsidy in that and it is not seen. Therefore, this problem, in my opinion, must be expressed. The second question, who made up free trade contracts and when? I expected in this information and analysis of the same, to see where the fields, which are not covered, which today make us troubles or well regulated by the contract or by our side, were not followed by adequate measures, which were to be taken in that time, in order to be a valid contract on... production. And what's written as the reasons for the suspension of part of the contract, I think that as a man, the manufacturer of yesterday, and also today, I support the Council of Ministers, it just needs to be extended to a wider leprosy, because this leprosy is extremely low, and maybe it makes a bigger problem, and here it is, in a certain way and respects that we are putting out the fire where the flame appears, so that problem needs to be finely analysed and covered by an adequate one, starting from analysis to the measures taken in that context. Especially here, I am stressing again, agricultural production, but I particularly point out that, in my opinion, the unacceptable answers I found in this information from the Lord of the Environment and I think it's in a certain way, from this irony that can be seen that... ours and directed to continue to be a hamal or a weight of someone, to destroy what we started and what's in development, which makes the future of this country. And, in this context, I support the work, even if the minimum part of the measures that the Council of Ministers has taken, but I urge that this leprosy be expanded, that complete contracts be analysed and that we can see where we as a state can act and see what we do, especially pointing fingers and general imbalances, when it comes to export-importing and, you will see that there is one of the same... that the Council of Ministers with experts should appoint, analyse and bring to this Parliament. Other measures accompanying imports-exports must be analysed here, at least in the form of reciprocity towards neighbours. I have witnessed that our trucks at the border, I would say 75 people, quite banally, not to say because of the pattern on the tire of the truck, but because of the completely banal things they were able to stand for seven to ten days, and it is not the reason behind it that he does not want to enter Croatia or Serbia, but that certain measures stand, that our exports should be stopped, or that the imports should be one-way towards this gig. I expect from the Council of Ministers deeper, therefore, and wider analysis and more appropriate measures in this area and better co-operation with this parliament. This parliament must be, under number 1, informed of what the Council of Ministers has done and number 2, to support or direct or help the Council of Ministers to ensure that these measures are as expected of this state and this council of ministers and this parliament. For now, I can tell that this isn't the best and most likely this is the indicator of today's session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16959	I thank Mr. Moranjkić. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić, and let Mr. Tihomir Gligorić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16960	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I, indeed, am and in some way obliged to explain my reaction and anxiety in some way, which I may have exhibited a little bit and rudely, but indeed becomes a practice that this Parliament in some way is burdened with unnecessary things, which are not in the function of solving problems, which are why we put things on the agenda, but simply transforms into a dialogue between the two people who always do not always have to do with the essence of things. And that's why I reacted, of course, to the Rules of Procedure, every MP and our guest has the right to use what the Rules of Procedure gives him for his right. Here, I will at the shortest, so this is about one piece of information, which was the goal, as I realized by the Council of Ministers' chairman to explain to this Parliament why these reciprocal measures were used and I realized that they were simply used to help our agricultural production, which in certain segments was in a very difficult situation because of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty. In the shortest, therefore, I, indeed, think of the Party for BiH MPs, really thinks that the Council of Ministers should have heard and that it is not excessive to send the information to Parliament immediately, whether it is asked or not, because it is about international trade relations, contracts, relations between countries, so that our working bodies, commissions, the appropriate, competent commissions can take it a little bit, look at the data, obtain and provide information if someone in Parliament is looking for it. So, I think the problem that we left out the dialogue, Mr. Minister, I'm telling you, so there's no dialogue, the information could have come to this Parliament the moment the problems arose, when the Council of Ministers made decisions on reciprocal measures and we would have the opportunity to hear our commission, etc., and as far as the data is concerned, we all use 76 data, but we need to be honest and honest, the question is how much we have accurate and accurate data. You know how we stand with the Bureau of Statistics, tracking our data, etc. We, or I, observe this whole thing, can be viewed with two aspects. If we look at the aspect of the conduct of the spirit and the letters of the Free Trade Treaty. I have no objections, the Council of Ministers has taken advantage of the possibility that these free trade contracts are predicting and, of course, the final court will give, these mixed bodies, which are foreseen by the contract. But I want to warn you of something else. Such actions, so to speak, one-time, etc. They don't solve the problem essentially. They don't solve the problem in terms of agriculture, and they create an illusion that we, in some way, are radically protecting our agriculture, there's simply no such thing as a significant change in the position of agriculture. So in this whole thing, attention should be paid to and efforts towards reform, therefore, according to how to solve problems in this area. Maločas prime minister says, that is, the chairman of the Council of Ministers says, entities have all the instruments and all the competencies, but, of course, when problems arise, we are discussing here in the BiH Parliament and in the Council of Ministers. So, there's something wrong with that. Obviously, the problem must be solved by reform in this area. It is also necessary to reform the administration, in terms of competence from municipality to state and, of course, it is necessary to establish a policy in the area of agriculture and the measures to be followed by that policy. And then we can say that we have entered into the process of solving the problem, and indeed, there is no reason, no one will fall on the crown on the head or on the Council of Ministers to agree that these measures do not solve the problem of agriculture. They are fire measures that are short of breath and do not solve, there is no need to create illusion etc. And I really need to avoid these words of the trade war and I don't know everything that hasn't been used in these dialogues, which are being conducted. Of course, let me remind you. We had in these free trade contracts the time, when we had asymmetric rates. So we can ask ourselves a question and entities a question, what have we done to prepare ourselves and be able to withstand the position of zero feet, etc., of course we have no answer. Where's the money from the prelemance, where this is, where it is, what we've been doing for the three or four years in that, let's say, the preparation period we had to prepare for the situation, when the zeroes came into effect. And, in essence of my discussion, to warn that the problem cannot be solved by partial measures, that the Council of Ministers must have the courage to enter into reforms and administrations in the area of agriculture and establish a policy in the area of agriculture and measures that will help. That's the answer to both our farmers and our neighbors. And, in the end, I think this parliament, of course, did not dispute that there was no initiative. This Parliament did not draw conclusions, as I recall, if it had been approached by ratification of the Free Trade Treaty, etc., I would surely have remembered it, because I would never have supported it, but such initiatives were. I am sure this parliament understands what integration processes are, what conditions are for the road to Europe. That's it. I'm sorry Mr. 77 has not been out. The chairman of the Council of Ministers always takes the responsibility and responsibility to explain it. I'd prefer the Minister of Resorial with us to communicate with us on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16961	Thank you. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić has his word and we have Mr. Miloš Jovanović's report. Let him prepare and then we'll bring the debate to an end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16962	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, working presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, Mr. Chairman, since there is now no President of the Council of Ministers, and you yourself said that we could ask him some questions and I thought, too, to ask him, but now I don't know the question of purpose, since he's gone again. Although I could, of course, appoint a competent minister, because by nature the minister should know more than the prime minister. The prime minister should run the sessions, know the general thing, coordinate between the ministries, and the minister in charge would have to know things by nature far more than the prime minister himself. It's not a bargain, it's a simple fact. Eh, now I'm having a dilemma about whether to wait until the Prime Minister gets back, because we're talking to ourselves, we know or to have someone come before me, because I was thinking of asking some different questions, a little bit more unusual than this, because I'm afraid we've fallen into a trap with this report that we're talking about, and that we're hiding a far more serious thing than the one that was offered to us, so I simply wanted to take it out with the chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16963	I think you should continue your discussion and finish your discussion. There are people here from the Council of Ministers, who will record it. I don't see any other way to work. I ask you to continue your discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16964	Okay, thank you, I appreciate it. But I'm going to change again now, given that I had three options, I'm going to go to the third variant. It's not much more extreme, I have even more extreme. I'll ask you two questions then. I think that should also be done by the competent ministers, i.e. ministers who are here right now to respond or may know the Prime Minister's opinion. Did, given that we spoke here at the House of Representatives last time, about the need for the Council of Ministers, the prime minister, to attend that there are no more important things in the state than when Parliament is sitting. The Parliament that elected the Council of Ministers should be in its work, which is 90% of what they are doing coming before the Assembly and how in that case 78 then ignore the practical parliament in the sense that they are properly explaining their proposal, which has not been the case so far. In the future, will you honor the House that has chosen you and regularly attend the session, not from case to case and not by reference as it was now. Because, apparently, it turns out that we started to discuss this point of the agenda, as if there were no problems in communication between the Assembly and the executive government. Oh, there's been a lot of trouble. And you need to make an explicit statement. Are you going to be there or will those benches be as empty as they are so far? Second, since you said in your report you'd take care of yourself. The word to grow old is such a broad term and these details you've been talking about, I don't want to talk, but simply, there's a problem. Have you considered, in relation to, here with concrete examples of Serbia-Montenegro and the Republic of Croatia, when we conclude free trade agreements and bear in mind, that these are countries with all their mechanisms, capable and strong states, and that BiH is in fact not functional and has no real mechanisms to respond in this trade with a stable, organised and strong state. That's what I was talking about in the last assembly, and why we're actually losers, you're just not uranized. It's like when you go, we mentioned the Mercedes of these of these smugglers, when someone goes with the fice and the Mercedes, you can't get the same way, that's how BiH is compared to Croatia, Serbia and Montenegro, with which you have an exchange. I'm so glad the president's listening. We'll sort it all out nicely. And that's why I would remind the Prime Minister, who likes to make political statements, you don't need that, Mr. President. You're dealing with executive power, because you're not doing it well. Because you needed to coordinate with entity governments and create a single economy market space in BiH. Don't be troubled by the existing Constitution, so don't ask for a change of constitution, because you have an existing provision that you can do and I'm asking you a key question right now. Is this how we unorganized and transfer responsibility to the government or to BiH, we silently allow a gray economy, which three billion marks are controlled annually by legal auction channels? Do you, given that you have mechanisms, recognise indirectly that the mafia, the grey economy, has mechanisms, has power, has more brains than currently exists in the executive government in entities and at BiH level. Whether we have capitulated it in the institutions of the system definitely, because this is what we are, in front of the gray economy and those who run it, and that's what the mob or thieves say in every country. Have you ever seen it on the Council of Ministers that you urgently need to establish a single market in BiH, because that is how you give space to others. If you don't, are you responsible for the situation that we have in BiH, because you are silently allowing the gray economy and the organized group, which has been doing this for years, to actually just spread that root and that tree in which it is constantly strengthening. I think it would be necessary to answer such questions, because these are controversial questions. The question is whether the state can, based on its instruments, mechanisms and knowledge, and knowledge is very discriminatory in the system of government. Is this knowledge possible, based on medium-term, long-term strategies etc. and the measures available to the state of attempt to resolve this issue, or it's definitely our defeat. Because from year to year, their billions are increasing, as they control, especially when we talk about trade, and so I would ask the prime minister to answer the first question, because he was absent. Will you make a public commitment today to the speaker that you will respect this home that has chosen you, since you can't finish anything there, before this House of Representatives and this 79 Assembly is verified, and will you thus show that, when Parliament is in BiH, there is no more important thing in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16965	I thank Mr Gligorić, the word seeks the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Here you go, Mr. Terzić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16966	First, I must admit that I do not know what we have shown that we do not respect this House and this Parliament. Look, there are some things that this House and this Parliament need to provide for themselves, to be important. We can't give it to them. If we're going to give you the importance of sitting here every time, here's what we can do to help you, but if we take a stenogram and look at your discussions since you sat here, I doubt it can help you. But here, we're ready and we're ready to do it. I must admit, Mr. Gligorić, that your discussions so far have not encouraged a single minister, and even me to come and listen to what you're saying, because I've never heard one particular thing from you in this year, and it doesn't fall within the sphere of politicization and demagogy. The unique economic space, Mr Gligorić, is the Council of Ministers along with entity governments. I'll just remind you that, when you were a minister we had a Chinese wall between the Federation's economy and the RS, the Chinese wall. That wall's gone. I will not say that in 100% we have removed all the barriers, but I can clearly show you that over 80% of the things that made up that wall of China have been broken down in these two years, and we can even dedicate one session of Parliament to show you that it is true. I think what might be related to this item of the agenda and this information, it's our quest to raise the issue of agriculture to the state level and, you're right, we don't need constitutional changes, so we don't need some huge political arrangements, we need to understand reality. The moment we raise the issue of agriculture to the state level, then we can put the Council of Ministers in charge of the issue and position and development of agriculture, etc. As I recall, we have so far given this Parliament several action plans that have been well met. Here, we now have the realization of our PRSP strategy, which is being fulfilled. Surely the political movements that have been on stage in recent months have slowed the degree of realization of these projects, but we each project that we have proposed, every action plan we have launched, we have done well and realized. And I don't know what a sentence means to you, do you know that you can't do it with them, but you have to do it with us. I don't know who this Council of Ministers is with, who they are. I think that you, however, should also as a home, which has done a lot of work since your convocation, adopted the mass of the law, that you should respect the fact that, however, those laws that have been proposed and politically agreed and expertly aligned with the European standards of this Council of Ministers. I'm afraid that we are now in a position to raise this home's work, it needs everything for the Council of Ministers to work, and by nature things I can't let you do, but whatever you're doing with me. I think it's a joint effort, but you have to respect, that, however, 80 of the key reform things that you've discussed, were first agreed to the Council of Ministers and that was this political moment, which allowed this country to go into reform and that we have... a unique economic space, which you were talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16967	Mr. Beriz Belkić. This is Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16968	If you would allow me to ask the replica before, if I have heard or understood correctly, perhaps I have made a mistake, that you have been listening only to demagogues in this House for two years and that you have never heard anything, and from Mr Gligorić. It seemed to me that you were talking about Parliament and I don't see the reasons why you're watching the thing that someone wants to be above, and someone below, etc. This is where people want to cooperate. And don't go out for a second and listen to what I'm talking about. I was saying that the problem can be solved by a thorough reform in this area, that both administration and policy-making and mechanisms, in one word, take over the concept of agriculture into the hands of the state, because otherwise entities say go to the Council of Ministers, and when the problem is incentivised, etc. There's no money, you don't have instruments, etc. So that's what it was about, and I apologize if I haven't heard correctly. But really, if you think he's here in these two years, people haven't tried to help with reforms, etc. They're wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16969	So, in order for there to be no doubt, I may have been misunderstood. What I was saying, I was telling Mr. Gligorić, because he asked me to prove that I respected this house. Mr. Tihomir Gligorić reported on the replica. Here you go. Sure, for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16971	Sure, I'll do it for a while. Since the president was supposed to answer, he didn't answer any questions. They can't mention the gray economy. He can't have the mob. They must not mention that they will attend this session or future sessions, etc. I specifically asked for it, but one cannot even mention the single economic market. Get away from it like a bogeyman. I'm a demagogue. Mr. Terzić, that's how you see it, and when we talked about a strategy on combating poverty, then I went out for a pay phone and said exactly what you didn't see coming. Eight things, specifically, and I said it was one thing, and now I'm saying, then I'm not, the demagogue that it's going to get dusted and it's not going to be realized. No matter what's better for the poor than your sectrategy, which you've been talking so hard about, and I'm a demagogue. People today live off the most common things they don't have today. You were obliged to inform the strategy, to provide them, but fine. That's your thing. And you, of course, are now 81 replacing the thesis, you want the Ministry of Plioprivred, immediately you, because the problem you want is the ministry. Well, here's to giving it to you. What are you gonna do with that now? Well, you have institutions. So where are these thieves walking to you, what do those institutions you've got do to you, which are under your direct control. There's no business here, but just create an administration that, in fact, the mafia is easier in this country, because then they're carefree and there's nothing you can do. Therefore, do not replace the thesis. You're talking about the Chinese wall, the barriers, but you didn't say between which barrier. I believe that you have removed barriers between people who deal with the gray economy and those who are in power, because these decisions are based on individual decisions, the release of excise duties, prelemants, tariff numbers, you are directly helping the name and the last name, which people are going to make a few million in BiH, at the expense of BiH. Of course, you don't want to talk about it, and I'll talk about it another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16972	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. You haven't finished yet. It's a replica, so I get it. Here you go. So that I don't interrupt, you finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16973	Thank you for understanding. He's talking about the Council of Ministers, if they're nice. I was talking, not just about you, but about other people who were supposed to attend, they should attend this session. You have your deputy, don't you? We haven't seen him here in two and a half years. Your deputy seems to have no barriers, he has secretaries, cabinets elsewhere. Who's paying for it? Is that what you're paying for? Did you ask such questions about the efficiency of work within the Council of Ministers, you did not ask that. Maybe you don't see him as well as I do. So that's why I'm talking about the need within the system, that everything works properly, not acting as your deputy voluntarily as he wills, you don't influence it, you can't affect the currents, it imposes a simple question, and you're not competent to do what you're doing. You can be mad at me as much as you want and with this chairman I end up with, knowledge is the basic value that we don't have in BiH in executive power, because if we had it, we'd have countermeasures, so the thieves from this country, and they wouldn't be protected here, because they know they don't or can't mate easily with our domestic politicians in executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16974	I thank Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. We're moving on with the debate. Next reported is Mr Miloš Jovanović, let Mr Nikola Špirić prepare himself. Here you go. Please, if only we could shorten the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16975	Here, I'll do it for you. We agreed to lead this discussion in terms of asking questions, so I will stick to it, with my questions being well-intentioned, meaning, no politics and no politicization. If these measures are put in place to protect domestic agricultural production, I accept and support it. But I would ask the question and since they are likely effects, but I would ask the question of consequences, primarily the consequences of agricultural processors and consumers. Here, in particular, let's say about consumers. Are we now going to take these measures, whether consumers will come into a situation, given the structure of domestic production, will they come into a situation to buy more expensive products now, perhaps not more quality? So I'd like to get an answer to that question and say one more question. Has anyone done an analysis, meaning, an analysis of the results of the free trade agreement, to say, between BiH and Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, on the basis of these results, whether these contracts should now be reviewed, so, in the end, if they are at our expense, then some things should be changed? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16976	I thank Mr. Jovanović. Next, Mr Nikola Špirić signed up and, behold, Mr Adem Huskić later signed up and we'll let him say something and then we'll bring the debate to an end. The chairman of the Council of Ministers will have the opportunity, if he wishes to, of course, have been behind the pay phone several times already, here we have, I apologize to Nikola, here we have, Mr Milorad Živković, after Adem Huskić, she, Milorad Živković, signed up electronically.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16977	Dear members of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, esteemed guests, When I asked for the last time and, of course, supported by most MPs, to take a break to get information from the Council of Ministers, I didn't realize that it was necessary to pass on to the Council of Ministers and the Chairman, so that we would argue within Parliament, but to inform each other about the problem that was evident at the time and the problem that stands today in a broader sense. That's why I think I've never said words from this pay phone, which anyone could do and, I've minded every time the answer was in the opposite direction, and so I'm asking a warning, perhaps the chairman, that everyone spoken by the MPs doesn't consider it a personal address and that he might try to preserve the dignity of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and we MPs to protect Parliament's dignity. Maybe a little bit in this debate came out of the question that we're discussing today. What was my objection is that we, within the state parliament, did not know about the Council of Ministers' preparations to implement a prolonged free trade agreement with neighbouring countries. It is a sign that there is no communication needed between the Council of Ministers and Parliament in any way, whether with the competent commission whether or not with the leadership whether or not to announce this possibility that the Council of Ministers has signals that BiH and BiH's economy can be most rationally 83, if it cannot reach an agreement, to comply with the agreement until the end of the suspension. In order to do that, there must be some economic analysis. So it can go with the assumption so what economic effects are, and what are the political effects of the suspension of the contract, both are important for BiH. I respect the move to protect the escalator of BiH's economic space, unless it causes anxiety among neighbours and nervousness with important European partners with the European Commission, and that would be good if we had in common communication with the Council of Ministers to take care of it, so as to withdraw this move. Unfortunately, there is no, we are still watching, I have a feeling of the Council of Ministers and Parliament is in some eternal kid. That kid is good, but not the way we've been doing him these two and a half years. I think there must be a more intimate atmosphere there, if we want to do things in the interest of the citizens of BiH. I was called to be with my position, because I asked for information from the Council of Ministers, on the side of some lobbies. No, I'm not on the side of crime in this BiH. That's after I don't know some lobby, and no, I'm not on the side of crime in this Bosnia and Herzegovina, that's quite clear. I don't know those people in the aggressor area, maybe I know of one person, but that was never specific to my position if I had a rational and economic analysis. So this communication between the Council of Ministers and Parliament, not only on this but also on other things, must be in the spirit of finding a solution. What interests me is whether it is enough, so whether this move taken by the Council of Ministers is sufficient to protect agricultural production in BiH. I'm saying it's not. So this is a palitative measure that has been withdrawn from necessity for what reason, but it would be good for the Council of Ministers to consider encouraging measures, whether it's the original jurisdiction of the entity government or the Council of Ministers. So, it would be good to hear these days that there are polemics to look for incentive measures and see which are enough to protect agricultural production and domestic producers in essence and, in the meantime, in negotiations with neighbours to which these contracts are concerned, conduct talks to get everything back into the frameworks of a contract that is signed and then make annexes in co-operation with the countries with which we have signed those agreements. Another thing that we heard here, and through which Parliament should in no way be able to cross, and without checking it, is Dr Lagumdžija's discussion, that the change of customs tariffs, so by changing customs tariffs for which we did not, it was true, that it got the information after 3 months, damaged the state budget by about 40 million KM. If this Parliament goes beyond that information, I think we are taking part in the collapse of this country's economic power all together. So, it's not the information that we heard on the street or information that is not important for both the government and the state parliament, and that's why I think we need to have some working conclusion that we're going to have an analysis to know what happened, because in the context of the debate we were convinced here to achieve the parliamentary majority, that we're going to have effects and that's the condition, the working conclusion on the effects of these measures is being informed after 3 months. I don't know what the situation is, but just the absence of that analysis, fuels suspicion and additional delegates in general the sense of dealing with politics in BiH, and those who are for and those who are against it, so it's irrelevant, I don't think we should go over it. 84 I think it's reckless to say the chairman's statement when he says, I'll be happy to submit a deficit report, where there's a black satisfaction if the deficit is 3.5 billion. We know what he is, it's not a secret, it's not a secret. We're not asking for information about the deficit, because we know that birds know it, but what measures the council will take to keep the deficit down. So we need an active Council of Ministers policy, not an informative policy towards Parliament. So, it's necessary occasionally to have it but we need active analysis. I can understand that this Council of Ministers, and even the previous council of ministers, is not at a pace that may be able to respond to these tasks, that it is not completed, that we do not have enough, we do not even have enough meaning or hearing for what might be support to this and the future Council of Ministers. Even in our state budget, we do not have an item for science, for research projects that we will trust to domestic scientific institutions, so that the Council of Ministers is properly served with scientific expertise and analysis regardless of what institutions and ways of the house will do. So we have to admit, we don't need it now, we're not here to get why there isn't, so let's defy what's not. Neo, let's see what we can do to get some valid analysis. It's not much, no matter what the poor ambience in this country, to allocate funds to these young people, researchers from whom the future of this country depends, in every sense they have work to do and not always give valid analyses, half of them will end up in the basket, half of them will be unusable, so we'll have trained people. The international community is here on expertise for its experts whose journals for reforming certain segments of EUR 1000 per day, the European Parliament says, we have no sense in our country to single out to make such analyses. That's why I think these working conclusions of Mr Lagumdžija are not them, I think this correspondence of the Council of Ministers and Parliament is in the interest of all councils of ministers and parliaments. And I think that the working conclusions of Dr Lagumdžija are not conclusions that ignore the Council of Ministers, but are just putting it in an active position towards Parliament. And that is why I think that every conclusion that the Poles seek is not on the line to propose to Parliament to assign the Council of Ministers, but to be informed in time, that we are together carrying a heavy economic burden in this country. Believe me, I haven't been determined by the Council of Ministers' beliefs, or that they're good or bad, and I wanted to have information and every measure of suspension or anything when it comes to international contracts will be strong if we all stand behind it in this country. But in order to stand, we need to inform each other. I think the Council of Ministers may have made a mistake just pushing that project without one necessary correspondence in every country. For me, it was news from the media, and here is the Presidency of Parliament. It was logical that I was invited by the chairman of the Council of Ministers at least five times. Not to ask me if I'm too smart, so I can tell him, but at least I can say the position, we can both know what the state's decision will be, because the BiH government and the BiH Council are therefore symbolising the government of this country behind which it should be held but on the basis of that, the exchange of information. I don't know if I've been able to help, but here I think these working conclusions of Dr. Lagumdžija we can plead, especially when it comes to this third one, that the Council of 85 mins will prepare information on the trade deficit and the emergency programme to reduce the trade deficit. I'm not going to propose new conclusions, so I'm going to support all three of these conclusions, but I think we should have an analysis of the political and economic effects of the suspension. So both political and economic. I'm glad relationships aren't broken, which I heard from the chairman, that's good. So, both the political and economic effects of the suspension of this agreement and how of course we will go further in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16978	I thank Mr. Nikola Špirić. The word is asking, we have another reported, I don't know the replica, or, uh, could you give us a minute, Mr. Lagumdžija?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16979	I think that one minute will be enough for me, as my colleague Špirić rightly mentioned what I was talking about, also information on that decision or information on the implementation of the Law on Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act of BiH, the publication in the "Official Journal" 15.07.2014. I consciously, Mr. Chairman, did not put this as a proposal for a conclusion, because in my discussion, if you remember, I suggested that you just do it in working order, because I think it's a little bit strange for me to suggest a conclusion, to oblige the Council of Ministers to give us information that is legally required to give us. So I'd rather have it, kind of weird for us to conclude that it's done by the law of information, but that's why I suggested that you, in a light working form, warn the Council of Ministers to respect that law... and if you think that, if you don't have that intention, then I'll translate it into
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16980	Mr. Lagumdžija, thank you very much. I follow the discussions of all of you and I hope that I do not belong to those who need to say the same thing twice. I'm asking you not to treat me like that in the future. I've made a very good note here and what you've suggested, and I've received and given the MPs to share what you suggested in writing, and you'll hear when I bring down the debate in the end, and I hope you'll make sure that I don't belong to people who need to be told twice. Thank you anyway. Mr. Adem Huskić came to the floor, and this will end the list of participants in this debate. We'll ask at the end of Mr. Prime Minister, if he considers it necessary to address, and I'll say a few sentences. Here you go, Mr. Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief and very honest with you. First of all, I'm glad I can welcome the representatives of the Council of Ministers in this number, and I think this is the first time they've ever been this impressive. I am sad about the way the debate so far took place about this point, and I am sad about the way it happened. I'm not, I have no intention of giving lessons, but I think it would be good for the College to establish a little stronger communication with the Council of Ministers, and I think that because of the communication that I'm assessing is not satisfactory, there's been this debate and this kind of debate. I think the Council of Ministers should know that there's a partner in this House who supports it and I really don't see any reason for any opposition or the kids, I think we're actually two sides of the same medal and we have the same tasks and the same goals and we're responsible for the citizens of this country. It also makes me sad that my feeling may not be true, probably from the Council of Ministers won't agree, I think the Council of Ministers has been this, lately pulling black figures and that's not good. And this, now, these changes that have come, have been the fruit of initiatives outside the Council of Ministers, which I am not estimating well. It is good that there are initiatives, but it is not good that the Council of Ministers reacts to initiatives or from the Association of Citizens, even in the end, from this House. I think we should have a more active role, one more active approach to the current situation and support on this side wouldn't be missing. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16982	Please don't be angry, I apologize to this guy, I really apologize, I needed to consult with the College members. That doesn't matter, look out, I'm asking you to continue the discussion, Mr. Huskić. I accept the criticism, thank you very much, I apologize. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, there's no need for you to take your word again, or you want a word again, I simply can't call you or call you back, you decide whether or not. You have the option, if you like, if you think so, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16983	Here, after a few bursts, there's probably a normal atmosphere and a normal communication. When it comes to the meanings of the information that we have submitted, Parliament has not asked for any quantifications, it has not asked for, I just want to say that this Council of Ministers has brought this measure to this end because of the situation we have with agricultural producers. We couldn't announce it to everyone, especially four or five times how, without a negative sign, I replicate to Mr Špirić, because it's a matter that needs to be decided and brought overnight. You know, the problem with meat products, the problem with milk doesn't affect agricultural products that much, and it will process BiH in the summer months, because it's tourist season, because mostly these goods go to the Adriatic and then we have something that can be called a controlled situation. However, after the tourist season in Croatia, simply all the goods they have come to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and we had to make that decision overnight to somewhat reduce the negative effect of so many goods on these three heads. And that's why we couldn't have 87 debates on the subject. Because if we had announced 7 days or 15 days we would have done so, then normally all exporters of Croatia in enormous quantities would have exported these goods to BiH. So I suppose you understand why we couldn't make that consultation and the measure is being taken, effective that day at 24 hours 0-0 and over. We have been having a constant problem with the communication of the Council of Ministers and Parliament from the very beginning. And here I am to those MPs who are not club presidents, saying that from the very beginning I have asked the College to set a date for the month with which we will have, we from the Council of Ministers, I chaired a few hours of talks with the College, the Expansive College, etc. From the very beginning, I'm asking that we make that kind of communication. The problem is you'll understand I'm doing a real program a dozen, fifteen days ahead. And the moment the College is scheduled, mostly and generally has already scheduled, but if we say the 23rd of the month, it's a meeting of an extended college with the chairman and the Council of Ministers, three, four, five hours, then it's something to plan. But that and when he was chairman, he was Šefik of Staff and when the chairman was Nikola, and I didn't ultimately suggest when Martin was, because I saw that there was no more than that, that no one would, but we had this kind of communication. But you realize that it's a thing, so no problem at all, once a month but a fixed date, we have an extended college and we're talking about it. Nowhere does it say that ministers and chairmans must sit in parliaments. Is that in the Rules of Procedure? Is that somewhere? Come on, change the Rules of Procedure and then do it. Is there a clock we should be answering? It's procedure now. I come when I can, I'm not the Prime Minister, so I can get my ministers to come. I am just the chairman of the Council of Ministers and every minister shows his attitude towards Parliament by coming and not coming. It's not up to me. And in the end, normally they must be present when they are to defend their legal regulations. But here's a change to the Rules of Procedure, write down that we have to sit in all the sessions. Do we even have a record when the prime minister comes, when the chairman comes, when the ministers come and which ministers attended and at which session? We don't. Well, we don't, here. But let's share that information too, Zlatko. Just like we share 40 million of that information, damage to the state budget. Let's share that information. But since the question has been asked, so we have prepared information, we have had little problems in the work of the Council of Ministers which someone called a crisis and someone is not, uh, so we have not yet through the Committee on Economics this decision, we have also implemented information on the effects of the application of this quota law. What we have information is that this measure has absolutely helped the primary manufacturers. Because what entity governments don't give them, it was directly given to them by those who used the quota measure. I know someone in this room doesn't believe, but you'll get information, so you'll see. And it's not absolutely about 40 million of this, KM, in Dr. Lagumdžija's calculations as a respected professor, it usually has a geometric progression, so you'll see it's a dramatically smaller number. Please, yeah, well, it's a dramatically smaller number, look out, now the question you're asking in the contract is whether you're asking for measures towards Serbia-Montenegro or the Republic of Croatia. According to Serbia-Montenegro, there was no way to avoid 88 measures, except to say, all right, you're a villain, we're people with no power and we'll let you do whatever you want. So the decision published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Serbia, the decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely gives us the right to do this, even obliges us. Because according to the WTO and the half... there's no subsidizing exports. And they made it clear, and we had to make this decision. I'm telling you, we tried to make sure in the talks that they abolished that decision, however, we failed. We'll move on when they cancel the decision, we'll end this one, and so will we. As for the consumers. Well, I don't think that since this meat and meat processing, milk and milk processing are still involved, I don't think that the quality of Bosnian Herzegovic producers and processing is dramatically lagging behind the quality of those that will possibly not enter BiH by applying this measure. I think we should still have more confidence in our manufacturer and I don't think spending simply won't feel the quality of the action of this measure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16984	Please don't throw away, let the discussion be over to bring things to an end. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For short replicas is whether, please for a minute the short replicas have Mr. Špirić and Mr. Lagumdžija. Mr. Špirić, first. So we can make a second circle, a third circle, we have time I mean, it's not a problem until tomorrow morning as far as I'm concerned, only if we want to hold on to ourselves a little bit, then we have to take care of the weather. We've still got work to do in Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Špirić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16985	I'll do it for a while. Maybe it's not a replica, but a suggestion when the chairman says that I of course communicate between the Council of Ministers and the College can be agreed, can be written, for me absolutely irrelevant. But when decisions are made when the Council, so I speak friendlyly now, when decisions are made that break through the borders of BiH such as the suspension of the Free Trade Treaty, if the government's session is at half-one, and I guess the obligation, you can invite us 15 minutes before the government's session, so if we refuse, say no. So you say,... and I even think it's a session to send members of the Presidency to defend together the decision taken by the Council of Ministers of this country. So in that sense, and whether we're going to meet for 15 days or not, it's a matter of technical co-operation between us. And what I've heard, which is not good, and that's why I think we should keep the figures, if the prime minister says this is what Dr. Lagumdžija was talking about, that it's less rapid, then it would be good if the prosecution of this country prepared itself. Harming the budget for 1 mark is an abuse. And 40 million is a disaster, rapidly less, less than a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16986	Yes, you're right, Mr. Terzić, you're right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16987	Look, I mean this is a game of words, this game of words is going to lead us to that I'm going to change the tone a little bit. So I was just talking about the number he was talking about, not the qualification of that number Mr. Lagumdžija gives. So, known that his rhetoric is heading towards arresting criminals, damaged budgets, etc. So we're going to provide you with information that it's about the exact quantification that's drastically smaller than this and the qualification is going to be that there's no talking about budget damage but about encouraging domestic agricultural production.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16988	Thank you, Mr. Terzić, Mr. Lagumdžija, for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16989	Well, first of all, I belong to people who really feel that criminals should be arrested and not led to negotiations with themselves. So my number of 40 million can be found on several websites of relevant institutes such as.... The Institute... of the World Bank and you can find information on the website regarding the effects of liberalisation in the region and should not be a particularly large scientist and should not be an expert on computers, as I am quite accidentally, although more intentionally, because Official Messenger number 32 page 27 of 15 of 15.07. allows to protect domestic production without paying a 10% customs fee and a levies whose average price is about 2kg of stamp, and imports of 4,843 tonnes of various kinds of meat, I do not need to talk about which trash it is. And when you multiply those numbers, you'll get to 10 million and 650 thousand square marks from somewhere, excuse me, about 42 million and 600,000 marks. It's a calculation. So my calculations are accurate and I'm not asking, I'm going to share all my information with you. But I'm asking you to find out who distributed that 40 million and that the information says what companies are, you don't have to name them, after giving the prosecutors let them do it, but tell them how many companies, how much imports, which is why the budget is damaged by 42.5 million. You just see who, if it's 3 companies, then it's something colorful, if it's imported by small agricultural producers and if it's gone to thousands of small agricultural producers, I'm going to suggest that it increase to 80 million. So, get rid of another 40 million. If they really introduced it, if it went to small agricultural producers that produce it, and if it went to several companies, then you have nothing to share with me. By the way, look who shared it, if anyone from your office has shared it. And one more thing, I repeat that my rhetoric is to arrest criminals, repeat, so any coalition that is based on the fight against crisis and criminal and corruption is a rhetoric that is close to me, every coalition that stands in the protection of that is something that I fear, that I am ashamed to think that we have close, you don't... like such a man who would personally get into it. But every ignorance doesn't amnest you, Mr. Terzić. Then it's called indifference. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16990	Okay, thanks. Mr. Momčilo Novaković replica, right? The replica then Mr. Gligorić's replica and we're done. And Mr. Moranjkić is looking for a replica, of course, is there anyone else looking for a discussion or a replica? Let him prepare, no problem for me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16991	I thank you, I did not answer for the discussion, and I have not even answered for the discussion now, some have called here to protect MPs from the Council of Ministers, chairing the Council of Ministers to protect themselves from the MPs. I would ask my colleagues to protect me from myself in the future, given that these lectures I have been hearing here for several hours without really and seriously repeating, one serious proposed, one serious proposed programme, somehow a measure from the people who have spoken to us here today and turned me into a student who has already listened to 45 minutes of lectures at this Parliament, I am really asking the honourable colleagues to protect me from themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16992	I thank Mr. Novaković. Mr. Gligorić and Mr. Moranjkić and then for a minute, both of you, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16993	Thank you. After the prime minister came out again, I thought that since he spoke very strongly about how he could not attend, he should have agreed on the date, I appreciate it, but at the same time we have a situation to come to us at, say, ministerial assistants and should at least come to the people elected by this Parliament as deputies and ministers, that in that case it would be good that, here are the three ministers, suggest that he also has a deputy who can come in his absence. And of course, he's gone, and it's very important this question when some measure of the Council of Ministers determines whether it's too many levies and we hear how many people have problems in court because of it, it's always been problematic and ended up with criminals, whether the current decisions, whether they're tariffs, whether they're in this way, whether they're not, whether they're typically the same people, the same firms that have an effect. It must not go beyond that, and it would be important for the Council of Ministers to check it out. You have mechanisms, you have ways, you have institutions, whether Tihomir Gligorić has earned a million marks, cheese or other things because of your decision to change the wine rate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16994	It's time to run out of time, if you can bring in
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16995	Thank you very much, but if you can really go through that kind of thing, then really that power of crime is getting to the point in this House, we're undermining it, but no one can say if it's true.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16996	Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Mr. Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16997	I'd be replicating someone, but I don't know who anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16998	Well, don't tell anyone if you don't know who.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u16999	And you, you give him the address, sir.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17000	Come on, we'll try to decrypt, then, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17001	Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers says he's killed himself a bit of an orphan looking to co-operate with this Parliament and with you from the College. That's what we killed ourselves on this side, here's two years there. Where's the truth? First question, and everyone takes it, and you point to the address. Secondly, it is necessary to tell the gentlemen of the Council of Ministers that the decision of this Parliament that any document and any force, and in particular the laws that come into parliamentary procedure, should be followed by whoever is behind it. And, especially if it is about the report of the body concerned, and it is not there, then we have made such a decision and it should be delivered to the Council of Ministers to know that we will never again discuss a document whose creator is not in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17002	Thank you, Mr. Moranjkić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if no one ever answers for a word, doesn't answer for a word, I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Finally, I would like to say only two three sentences concerning the co-operation and relationship of the Council of Ministers towards the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and this House towards the Council of Ministers. This co-operation is based on the Constitution, it is based on the Rules of Procedure, that is all I can as chairman ask both the Council of Ministers and Parliament to respect the Constitution of this country and to respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House. That's what we all have to respect. I hope that, after the end of last session, we will have a changed 92 practice when it comes to the Council of Ministers' presence in our time, and I expect the Council of Ministers to attend the sessions of this House in particular, ministers when their agenda points are at this session. And on the other hand, I think we'd be incorrect if we didn't say this thing. The Council of Ministers cannot be asked to prepare any information on such an important matter for, at the beginning of the session, for, during the session or for the end of the session, and then, finally, after the Council of Ministers has failed to do so, to interrupt the session. That's my opinion, I'm bringing it out here to you now. I think we need to be observant when it comes to such situations and leave appropriate time to the Council of Ministers to prepare the requested information. I would like to take this opportunity on this occasion, since we have one thing that we have last time delayed for the next session, and it is about this excise matter, that from the Council of Ministers to the next session we will have information about it and I hope that we will not come back into this kind of debate again, and I hope that in the coming period we will have an adequate relationship and the Council of Ministers towards the House of Representatives and the House of Representatives towards the Council of Ministers. I think it's mostly a formal thing. As far as BiH's reforms are concerned, that's what we should be discussing and what we should be talking about, if we should also express different views. So much for this formal side of the problem and the relationship of one institution to another institution. When it comes to the conclusions on a specific topic, I thank all those who have tried to help us here in the College with their proposals, how to end this agenda point. We are in the College, and because of this lack of attention is Mr. Huskić's discussion heard, I apologize to him, we have tried to make a proposal some, the conclusion of the College, of course, right away, everything will be put to the vote, every conclusion proposed. But what the College can take right now as its joint proposal is next. First, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives takes note of the Council of Ministers' Information on the suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty with neighbouring countries. First, don't say it again. I hope this is understandable. Secondly, secondly, it would be the first proposal in Mr. Lagumdžija's proposal, I think he's perfectly normal, if that's the problem we need to follow, I think it's perfectly normal. And I repeat, the Council, therefore, the second proposal would read that the BiH Council of Ministers will no later than 3 months analyse the results of the Council of Ministers' decision to suspend the Free Trade Agreement with neighbours, with a plan for further measures. And I think it's perfectly normal and perfectly okay that this Parliament has one such information and we can take that conclusion from the College. And the third conclusion, which is now proposed by the College, which is not written in Mr Lagumdžija's proposal, but which is punished in the discussion, which we consider to be entirely 93 offices and that it is perfectly correct, is what is our legal obligation. We have an obligation under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Policy Act, which we have amended, to both the Council of Ministers and Parliament to analyse, at certain intervals, the implementation of amendments to the customs tariff and on the basis of the conclusions of that analysis, whether or not it goes forward with the application of that law. As I recall, the text of the law is like that and the law is passed with such a provision. I think these are the three conclusions behind which this College can stand and we suggest that these three be its own conclusions. As far as the other findings are concerned, I personally don't mind making a policy in this country to encourage production in the area of agriculture, but I'm afraid of jurisdiction. I'm afraid that, as Parliament, we are not fresh to say otherwise, the obligation of someone who won't be able to do so, I would like to, and I would be very happy to vote today for such a conclusion, but I'm afraid that we will refer it to an incompetent authority. I pray to Bog that as soon as possible the time comes for this organ to be in charge. But now the thing is coffee like that is. If you insist, I'll put Mr. Lagumdžija to the vote, but I had to say what I said. And when it comes to the third conclusion, the Council of Ministers will prepare information on the trade deficit and the programme of emergency measures to reduce the trade deficit within a month. This can go, and I can vote for this conclusion, but I'm afraid a month isn't too short for such a demanding job. Although I'm not an economist, I know this is demanding, because especially with the emergency program, you understand. Please, you'll get your word. So, you heard, you have a proposal for these three conclusions, which are the college's proposal. We'll also vote on these two conclusions Mr. Lagumdžija spoke about and pleaded. Mr. Kunić, he wants to say something about the proposal for a conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17003	I didn't understand your second proposal, second conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17004	Great, I'll do it again, Mr. Kunić. So, Mr. Kunić, the College suggests, under the 1st, a stenogram for the second time notes that this House, takes note of the Council of Ministers' Information as it is called on the temporary suspension of certain provisions of the Free Trade Treaty with neighbouring countries. Do we understand that? Let's move on, two. The College accepts the proposal of the 1st Mr Lagumdžija, and now this is our conclusion of the 2nd, the Council of Ministers will, no later than 3 months, analyse the results of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the suspension of the 94 Free Trade Agreement with the neighbours, with a plan for further measures. It's on the trail of what we talked about today, we need to be on the clock. And thirdly, the conclusion of the College is, three. What is our legal obligation, when we adopted the amendments to the tariff, when we adopted, we even reached a conclusion when we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act. And that conclusion was that these quotas, compared to which we have made changes to the tariffs, will be realised on the basis of quarterly impact analysis, to see what this effect is for primary production, what is an effect for the processing industry, and the further application of the next quota depends on the analysis of what is the result of the analysis of the previous quota. And that's normal, that's what we're practically repeating our conclusion and we think it's okay. And that's what the College, Mr. Lagumdžija, proposes, and we'll vote on that. So we're voting on these three things in the package as a proposal from the College. Mr. Lagumdžija has two more conclusions. We can talk about them later, Mr. Lagumdžija. I put this proposal to the vote. Here you go, we can't be a problem. Sir, the chairman of the Council of Ministers needs correction.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17005	Always has the advantage, ladies and presidents have the advantage
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17006	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17007	So I have the general's objection to the first conclusion and very specific to the second. Right away, the second conclusion mentions the suspension of the Free Trade Treaty which is absolutely not true. So we have submitted information to the BiH Parliament on the Council of Ministers' Decision which, by the Council of Ministers' decisions concerning the Free Trade Treaty. And it's a formulation. And no one has suspended the Free Trade Treaty, so don't let it get out in public yet. And at first, I'm some chairman myself, and I suggest the conclusions of a circle of people a little smaller than this one and I know very well what I'm doing with information that I'm either not going to accept or I can't reach a consensus or for some reason I can't reach a concrete conclusion. Since we are this, and I have understood it, and I have come today solely for the reason that I have realized that Parliament wants to help the Council of Ministers on this matter, because this is not just a matter of the Council of Ministers but of every MP and relation to people who represent and are engaged in agriculture and production and processing, it is clear that this proposed conclusion does not really mean anything. If you're going to humiliate us like this, don't Bog. You're receiving information. I guess we have some attitude about it. If it's good, if it's not good, let's state the council, what we do. We use media, watch out, we use media 95 for various messages when we're not in benches, for and against. We're taking care of neighbouring countries about this, that one. We're calling the Council of Ministers and now that it needs to be determined about the conclusion, then we're saying we're getting information. For me, it's not exactly showing some big support to the Council of Ministers. If that's the only way to vote anything, then fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17008	Please, Mr. Chairman, we've asked you for information and information, and it's our usual practice to take information into consideration. As far as I'm concerned, I'm willing to accept your information, and here I have the consent of my colleagues from the College while you were at the pay phone that there's no problem, that we as a College can suggest that information be accepted. Look, um, I mean, it's a completely undeniable thing, and I think if we're in our agenda, we call it what we called it, because we didn't know what it really was called, then that doesn't mean that we're going to stay in the wrong names, but we're going to accept those names that are right, and it's really the right name that you wrote in your information and we're obliged to respect it. And this is information regarding the Council of Ministers' decisions to suspend the application of a zero rate per free trade agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia-Montenegro, for reasons of discretion... well, that's the full name and that name will be the right to tell you, I don't see any difference between what I said. I said temporary suspension and you said, no, I said certain provisions of the Free Trade Agreement with neighbours and I don't see any difference between them, but you have the right to insist and these individual provisions will be provisions relating to the zero rate and instead of suspension will be suspended and there will be no problems. It'll be the way you are, at least I'll suggest we write it. Therefore, after the intervention of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Lagumdžija is asking for a word more, and then I will propose later, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17009	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, since I am the proponent of this conclusion which is the College, the spirit of this conclusion has accepted. That's the most important thing to me. Whether a suspension or temporary suspension of the application of a zero rate will be used, as stated in a memo by the Council of Ministers and whether the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro will write, instead of neighbours, because it can really be a confusion, we may also be with Italy, which is our neighbor across the sea whether, perhaps we are with it, and not really Italy is not touched by this, so there is no reason not to use the formulation from the memo of the Council of Ministers that came to us with our session. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make you understand, don't be angry with what I'm doing, this third conclusion you've taken, not my third one, but your third conclusion, it's not about them doing something to our conclusion, because it wasn't our conclusion, it's Article 2. Law supplementing the BiH Customs Tariff Act and the Official Messenger of BiH since 15.07.2014. 96 When they do not respect our conclusion, we get angry and leave the session and do not commit them. But when they don't respect the law, it's something else. So I would pray, in order to make sure they know, that if they don't accept the third thing you said, they're still breaking the law that we've said they've already broken, Article 2 of that law, which was precise because that conclusion was turned into law. And one more thing, Mr. Chairman, about since it will be obvious that my next two conclusions, I would only ask you to this, which you said if the problem in a month is to prepare information about the drone deficit, I'm inclined, if the College will accept it in 2 months but I draw your attention, that in a month at this rate, the trade deficit is 500 million marks or half a billion marks. Well, if you're in no hurry, I'm in no hurry either. So, in two months, it's okay. But if you're willing to accept the correction of my conclusion with another deadline, I'm giving up. If there is no consensus between you, I would ask you to make a statement on this. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17010	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17011	Regarding this conclusion, which speaks of the Code of Quotas. So, this dom, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, adopted the Code of Quotas, which clearly states that the quarterly approval of this use will be granted, and that after 3 months at the latest we will report to this House on the quantification of what we have received, what we have lost. Now, Mr. Lagumdžija, he's talking about things like that law permanento is applied and no one's pleading. So, I say responsibly, the Council of Ministers granted approval only for the first quarter and stopped and we wait for the House's statement on the basis of the information that we will forward to you, so that we can see whether we will move on or not. So it is absolutely not true that this decision applies longer than the first quarter, as the Council of Ministers has made this decision and directly, be careful, so until we report to Parliament on the quantifications as the law itself has said and as Parliament has said, we will not even release the second quarter. And it's only one quarter, and that's why Mr. Lagumdžija's data isn't correct. And here, I'm telling you at the next Council of Ministers session we have this, here's that information, we have clear quantifications, and for the next session of Parliament you'll get it. Nothing's hidden, everything's public, everything's transparent. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17012	Please, please, no more need, I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Mr. Vinko Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17013	Well, it's one of the conclusions to me. I don't think the third one the College suggested is clear. I don't know if those tariffs apply to all the laws that we adopted that day or just to certain ones. Niko one mentions what he's referring to. Is that the meat or the cars? It's both disputed for me. I hear that these cars that are imported here, are envied by four seeing and selling, are not less cheap than in Germany. So, not a bit cheaper than that car you pay customs to. Someone takes that hyper profit for themselves. I think there's more profit than there is in this meat work. I'd like this one, too, to make that clear. If both are thought of, if both of them were this, I didn't mean to discuss information, information at all, I could love this one or not, but I think that if it would help this country, I would cancel many other cooperation agreements between BiH and other countries, if it would help BiH in Euro-Atlantic integration, relative to neighbours or other countries in the region and Europe, the world, etc. But if he won't, then you'd think this one out, whether it's more useful or damage to this suspension or what it's called. As soon as I answered my word, that I would not listen to the public, because the journalists listen well to my colleague Lagumdžija, he mentioned my name at one point, it was from about an hour and a half ago and he told me to ask Ruža, I asked Ruža this, Ruža says that she is content to have someone from that delegation either misrepresented himself or he really is an adviser to the Council of Ministers. I guess nothing else happened to her, and she told me. Now, I'd like you to see when I've already answered the word, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers tells us here if anyone has falsely introduced himself to this conversation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17014	Please, so give this one, thank you, Mr. Zorić. Mr. Lagumdžija, I would most kindly ask you not to throw it out of the bench. Mr. Terzić, please, there's nothing more he can do. We're done, we're out, we're clear. What don't you get? Come on, please. Look what the problem is. Look what the problem is. This is a matter that primarily affects Parliament's integrity. Allow me as chairman to suggest, I suggest I read three times. Here you go, Mr. Gligorić. I mean, it's all clear, we know everything, so all the people who follow this know this, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17015	...I'm like an MP in a dilemma. You said at the first conclusion, we'd receive information. Then you said that's how you agreed to go to college. Then you said at the same time nod your head,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17016	Well, now I'm definitely going to suggest a conclusion, so wait till I say so. A discussion of the conclusions has been opened. People made comments. Let me now sum up the debate and re-propose the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17017	I mean, if you've changed, it's not information that means we're receiving it, but to accept or confirm the information of the Council of Ministers, it's a drastic difference, because we didn't get the basic parameters, we didn't get the information, and we didn't accept it, and we're going to legitimize what was wrong with the Council of Ministers, so I'm asking MPs not to fall into that trap.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17018	Thank you very much. I'll make you a proposal from the College. We'll be right here. Just give us a minute. No, we're not gonna take a break, we're gonna finish the act, and then we're gonna take a break. Please, Kolgius has agreed and suggests the following conclusions. First, information from the Council of Ministers on the suspension of the Council of Ministers' decisions is accepted on the suspension of the application of a zero rate under the Free Trade Treaty between BiH with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro. First, please don't call for you, college suggests you have the right to claim don't have a debate with me. Please have your word. Please, I urge you to prepare yourselves, to vote on one conclusion at a time. I urge you to prepare for the vote on the proposal for this conclusion. Prepare to vote. And vote now. 18 for, 8 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. Please be nice, is it on behalf of the club you're asking for a repeat vote? Are you looking for her? You're looking. At the request of the SNSD Club, I declare this previous vote invalid. Prepare to vote again. We repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote and we'll compare all this later. Prepare to vote. And vote now. 18 for, 10 against, 5 abstentions, enough entity majority. I also find that we have adopted this conclusion, conclusion number one. Conclusion number two reads 99 2. The Council of Ministers is obliged, at the latest, to analyse the results of the Council of Ministers' decision to suspend the application of a zero rate after the Free Trade Agreement between BiH with the Republic of Croatia and Serbia-Montenegro, with a plan for further measures. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Please, please let us finish the job. 30 for, 2 against, 1 abstention, enough entity majority. I also find that we've adopted conclusion number two. Proposal for a conclusion 3. reads, 3. To oblige the Council of Ministers to submit an analysis to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, Mr Lagumdžija, from Article 2.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17019	Analysis of the Customs Tariff Supplement Act last year, here you have
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17020	Okay, an analysis of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Tariff Act, is from last year. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. I'm finding, with 32 for, without any objections, and 1 abstention, and a sufficient entity majority, that we've adopted this third conclusion as well. The fourth conclusion is four. To oblige the Council of Ministers to prepare within 2 months information on the trade deficit with an emergency programme to reduce the trade deficit. I put a two-month deadline, that's ours. Prepare to vote. That's conclusion number four, which we, we vote on our conclusions, this is the fourth conclusion. Let's see what it's like not to repeat it. 22 for, 3 against, 2 abstentions, a sufficient entity majority, this conclusion was adopted. And we have another conclusion proposed by Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, who I told my court, which says that the Council of Ministers will no later than 3 months make a proposal for a policy to encourage BiH production with agricultural reform. I said what I thought about it in principle. Prepare to vote. 100 vote now. 14, 12, 2, this conclusion remains for alignment, there is not enough entity majority from the RS. In this way we end this agenda point, this conclusion remains for alignment. Are we going to do this right now? Are we going to be okay with this? Here's a member who doesn't agree. We're going to a counter-vote. Let those who vote against this conclusion be prepared, then. Those who object, prepare to vote. Vote now. 10 against RS, that's 2/3, therefore the conclusion has not been adopted. So we adopted these four, we didn't adopt this one. This is how we finally ended this point on the agenda. I thank you. The college decided to, to take a break from the clock time. We'll continue at 13:45, for lunch, of course. There are 24 MPs in the hall, according to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat, according to a professional service report, we can continue to work. [[PAUZA]] We're going to the 10th point of the agenda, that's A.10. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004 This report was on the agenda of the 51st session. At that time, this House made a commitment to the State Regulatory Commission to supplement the report, given the debate which was held on the same. The State Regulatory Commission has acted within our deadlines, given deadlines and submitted an updated report. You got that report. Now here I am reopening the debate on this subject. Here you go. Mr. Milorad Živković. Let Mr. Jozo Križanović prepare himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17021	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is an addition to the Work Report, which explained some of the misunderstandings resulting from the previous Work and Discussion Report, which was led here in connection with this report and concerned the competences of several agencies and organisations dealing with control, electricity transport and overall electricity in BiH, which is a very sensitive topic, especially since a lot of money is moving in this area and what has not yet been privatised and which has not yet been regulated relations in the control of the sale and production of electricity. 101 In addition to this report, we see that some of the responsibilities in the area processed by ZECC and NOS are listed here why Derk has no authority in these areas and we see that with its demands to check some of the activities that take place in the trade of electricity between certain companies in BiH, whose ownership transformation is either incomplete or unclear, such as the Aluminijum in Mostar and who is responsible for charging the electricity that is transferred from BiH to Croatia in that part, and we as Parliament hope, and when we get answers to the business questions asked by the Council of Ministers, we will have a clearer insight into the situation regarding this topic. On the other hand, the same ZEKC here in this supplement of the report provided some data which may not have had to be delivered here because it concerns confidential sources, and I thank the Derk who has managed to obtain these data, I would suggest only that on page 2 where the distribution of funds and the participation of certain power companies in total.... The network, that it is my suggestion to order a study that would indicate whether these percentages that are now made, probably at the beginning and arbitraryly were and ultimately definitively read. The second reason why we asked for the addition of this report was the financial report in 2003, 2004, referred to the 2005 proposal, where it was now explained here, why these reports could not be adequately produced, and I would require that if it accepted this Parliament, the State Regulatory Commission would provide us with an analysis of the plan for 2005 and the corrections made to certain items of it, and it is known which items were mentioned the last time it did. Well, yes, now it is up to the agency or Derk to say what a reasonable time-limit it is, that the report is delivered when they are made to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17022	Thank you. Mr. Jozo Križanović, please. Well, then, Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17023	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat what my colleague Živković has done but would refer to only one part of this report. As you recall, at the 51st session that the chairman quoted here in the conclusion, we had a report from the Regulatory Agency for Electricity which included a financial plan for this year. If you remember, a lot of colleagues spoke critically about this segment of the report, so to the 2005 financial plan. First, to point out that I am surprised why, let's say, our competent Commission for Transport and Communications has not previously discussed this innovative report. This would be the order, especially in the conditions when certain initiatives launched here in Parliament are referred to commissions, so it would be the turn if the commission had discussed this innovative report. 102 Second, I want to express my dissatisfaction, why is there no financial plan in this report? One sentence of the latest report says that the financial plan is not an integral part of this report, but I warn the plan will be an integral part of the 2005 report, and then we will discuss the post-festum of certain items. Last time we talked about inappropriately high cost items, i.e. expenditure, income seems to be no problem, and I'll just remind you, I took the adopted budget of the BiH institution and made an analysis by one item only. It's gross wages and employee fees. When it compares, we will see that we have one huge colour in BiH institutions where the average ranges per employee range from 15 000 to 31-32 in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. So we have an existing situation in BiH institutions, that we have a 1:2 relationship in the category only pays and salary-based compensation, based on working relationship. Of course, this once again points to inevitability, necessity, necessity, etc. the adoption of the Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Budgetary Payments. And now let me tell you, based on the planned workers in Derk for 2005, that amount goes up to 58,000 and 500 marks, so three times more than three times the amount of individual institutions in BiH. There are also huge numbers when it comes to regression, when it comes to further education of personnel, etc. To hide in one sentence behind the failure to correct such a financial plan, a sentence saying that the 2005 financial plan is not an integral part of the report, I think that in some way deafening the conclusion of this House, where it is finely said that, based on the debate that was conducted in this House, the report is being corrected. And therefore, for two reasons, because the Commission has not previously discussed our responsibility and because of the lack of a financial report or a plan for 2005, where we will have these figures as I am here, some of them will quote and we will consider and in a year when nothing will affect this Parliament. For these reasons, I will not be able to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17024	I thank Mr. Križanović. Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić. And, we are then, we have more if the President of the Commission wants to,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17025	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17026	Muhamed will, of course, take it out very briefly, concisely, won't he? Well, what I expect, what I expect to say. Now I think I can fool myself in the expectation I think, yes. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17027	I will try to hear myself loudly, and Mr. Salkić, the current head of the Derk, whom I ask to respond to some of my concerns, although I spoke with Mr. Salkić and his associates last time, to some of my dilemmas that appear reading this report. I'm going over myself, and Mr. Salkić is going to say whether I'm right or wrong. The Derk also monitors and controls interstate transport and electricity problems on the background. So I realized, and in this context, I then have some doubts, so I'm going to rely on a cross-border trade mechanism called the CBT mechanism, and here it says, once again, that the CBT mechanism is applied in most countries. Analog of this means it's not in everything. If he returns to that large part, it is said that the debts that arise are not put into the context of the debt of the state but of the operators that do so. Given that we are specific, in this context, which we are, which is still the electricity sector under the state seal, whether or not they will be caused by a problem in Derk and what mechanisms besides these ones, because here it says in the larger part, which means in the smaller part there are others, it will bother that those policies that they have placed this one, they realize. It is further said that the CBT's signature is the ZEKS from Sarajevo and that the agreement is given by three power plants. The question arises, I find it inconclusive, who gives a guarantee, who stands behind ZEKC, are these three electro-infections, and where is the spelled state again? And thirdly, when we started Derk and when Derk started to work, they inherited a certain condition, I have a custom of vulgarly saying one tail that treated probably a different problem that Derk is now doing through these mechanisms. These are certain stores that have created the search and other things that need to be solved now. Whether they are now Derk's neck stone and how they will solve it and how much more there is left and how much more of these unresolved problems that have created the stores that were set before Derk and what we see from this is that these debts have not been settled and that they are still withdrawing, how they will be resolved. Much more, I have decided to talk to Mr Salkić and it was clear to me except for the reform of the electricity sector in our country. That's what's under c) and I'd like to ask in that context a few questions to clarify. Salkić is likely to respond briefly. I ask if you know why the late ones are listed, because here it states that some activities are delayed at the establishment of the power transmission company and who is responsible for it, because it says here that the arrows are against the Federation of BiH. Is it her or is it someone else, in that system when it comes to the creation of a power transmission company? It states here that there is no action plan and that it is one of, the question is, who and what action plans should be taken and that it is behind them, that Derk could work uninterrupted and not lag behind at certain times that are now burdensome and likely lead to a difficult situation of unresolved problems. 104 Who should have come up with that plan, and do those in Derk feel that someone in a certain way is obstructing it in this time or is it something third? Thank you very much. Am I short?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17028	Of course, when the two of us make a deal, that's the way it's supposed to go. You can phone Mr. Lagumdžija, too. It's no problem at all. Just don't go to the O.R., of course you don't have to do it here. I've never heard from anyone else since my esteemed colleagues for the hearing. I would ask Mr Salkić Mirsasd to take his word and give a very brief answer to the questions, since we have already discussed these matters at Parliament's session once before, to bring this to an end today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17029	Honorable presidency, distinguished MPs, I'll try to be brief, but sometimes he pulls back and goes longer. On this part of the financial plan, I will eventually try to comment on something, i.e. inform as much as I can, and before giving a few short answers to today's questions. Mr. Živković's issue of distribution. This is the distribution of the current assessment of three electricity industries, ownership relations, or part of the transmission system management. I hope that in this year, at the latest by the end of the year, we will have a joint transmission company, so these percentages will no longer matter, when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, because it will be a joint company, which will work in accordance with the law and positive acts. Mr. Moranjkić's question. We talked about it, that wasn't me and my associates, but they were three members last time and we talked about some things, and what was left was open. When it comes to our competences, they are related to the transmission of electricity, system management and international trade. So, licensing, etc. We are in the process of passing acts, there are certain activities that must be returned... both for action plans and for regulation of the market, when we will start issuing licences for international trade and monitoring the work of those involved in this trade. At this point, it's still not our jurisdiction. It's a question of CBT machanism. Cruising this system, for example, is a mechanism that treats only transit, i.e. transmission of electricity through BiH, not trade, but only transfer and enables free flow of energy, i.e. free trade in Southeast Europe, but we in NOS when we talk about the CBT mechanism, we have certain competences only when it comes to the use of the transit network. That's the part. Secondly, in last year from the countries of the region, which will soon be signed, it has already been initialled, I would say, a country agreement in Southeast Europe has been initialled, in last year's Montenegro and, if it has shown its readiness to engage, for certain reasons it has not been included, it is included this year. It was not Croatia for, probably more political reasons than some others, but not to go into those reasons, but it was not included and how many 105 I know is not involved in this mechanism this year either. All other countries are involved in the mechanism, however, the agreement has regulated the issues of who is involved, who is not involved and these issues are paid, etc., absolutely not linked, whether or not a member of the mechanism is involved. Something has been said here, what Mr. Živković said to you, a question of certain debts. It was this transitional period and, these are debts not for the sale of electricity, they are uncovered, I will not say debt, uncovered liabilities, or not charged money, within BiH, for the use of the network. I have to say here. When it all comes together, nobody out there owes us. This is finally the ratio of the three existing power companies, which they, I think, will regulate, as they have agreed on the distribution of funds, from the revenue generated by this mechanism. Let me remind you, it may happen that sometimes we have a negative balance in exchange. So, at this point someone will get that money, tomorrow they'll have to pay into that fund, but in any case, the Regulatory Commission, when it starts working, in terms of determining tariffs, when a transmission company is formed, all these things will be taken into account, and that will then be just a question of a common relationship between the electricity transmission and the BiH company and the system operator, so already in this year they won't, in that sense, be any problems, and this earlier, I wouldn't treat it as a debt of some state to this country. It's a question of internal relations between three electricity companies. The part that's only said that ZECC has approved three power plants. You know, ZECC, so, the Joint Electrical Coordination Centre, if I'm not mistaken in the situation where we had three completely separate power companies in BiH, that one body was formed, I don't know, one three- or four years, five years, that took the role of making these things like the CBT mechanism on behalf of the three power plants work and those three electro-priveds formed ZECC. To this day, they have delegated members of the Management Board, so the ZECC still manages three electricity industries through its representatives. The founding of NOS, or already in NOS law, has defined certain things. The founding of NOS, and a little later I'm going to say when the establishment is expected, so there are no roles in that sense anymore, there are no roles in the three electricity industries, there's a NOS board of directors, there's going to be a board of power transmissions. We are the ones who will sort of regulate the work of these institutions, but not in terms of governance, management, but also regulate the areas of our competences. It's a matter of reform. The formation of NOS transmission companies later and this presents certain problems in, most of the power supply always, you see no problem, but in defining the relationship in our work, today was parallel to this meeting at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, so my two colleagues were there, where they were just discussing and discussing what the problem was. As far as I know, it was practically late in those activities. But the first one to be the next is the formation, that is, the appointment of boards of directors. To this day, as far as I know, the RS, or by law, is proposed by the entity governments. The RS government has proposed a member of the board of directors, as far as I know, the Federation government has not yet proposed members of the board of directors. Why, I don't know, and it's not mine, maybe even to comment. I hear that certain criticisms about these proposed members have been made today, but mostly no boards have been appointed, and that is the basic prerequisite for 106 companies to start working, truth by law. The law defined that an independent member would, therefore, take over the international member's authority during the transitional period of the board of directors. As far as I know, he's about to do it, but he hasn't done it yet. That's all I can tell you. In our work, the situation would be far, far simpler and better, if we had an electrotransmission in Banja Luka, had NOS here, to propose relationships, then, practically, we adopt some things, we agree, this is how we are crucified between three electro-priveds, NOS, or ZECC, etc. I expect according to some terminology, which has come out of circles, whether an international member or this working group in the formation of a transmission company, is expected to be established by the year, registered, portable, sometime in the autumn. ZECC should, in my opinion, go a lot easier, but here there are no major shifts and a short matter of action plans. I think I said that last time, and you probably know, action plans were taken at entity level, not state level. They're harmonised. If I'm not mistaken, somewhere last year was the Constitutional Court's ruling to amend the Law on Electricity in the Federation and in that sense, I think there's still a question of how to continue to work in the Federation when it comes to the action plan. That's what I know. I can't tell if there are obstructions or no obstructions, and I don't know if there are any, but I think the Constitutional Court ruling has made it clear to me that some of the members of the Federation's electricity law are changing. As far as this financial part is concerned. Just for the sake of clarification, in addition to the end, it says that, as is the subject of our work report, it is not a financial plan, but before that, an explanation of what needs to be done and I will tell you what we have done. We recently discussed and adopted a report on the implementation of the financial plan for the past year, and we sent that report to the State Audit Office. This earlier law has not been defined whether they will approach the audit or not, but we have been invited to stand at our disposal to do so, in addition to this audit, which is our legal obligation from an independent auditor. And as far as that part is concerned, that's it. We said the same thing, and that's what we're gonna do. Based on the... report for last year that will have several parameters, we will consider certain things when it comes to the 2005 plan and, probably, some adjustments accordingly. You also know that at the end of last year a law on the financing of institutions was passed... BiH, which also commits to us in part when it comes to the adoption of a financial plan, the participation of the ministry, the participation of the Council of Ministers, and it seems to me to be in the final instance of Parliament when it comes to defining the financial plan, and this will also define the issues of the audits. The question of these amounts and these items, as indicated. They are who they are, considering that certain changes will be, but I don't know how to explain it differently. Now I'm going to give you a few parameters, let's say for my salary and my receipts, and these are the parameters on which it can be made. I'll take them out here, it's no secret. I had an average salary last year of 3,240 marks without past work. She's so big. As far as I'm concerned, if it's considered 107 high, I'll be in order to reduce, if it's considered that. All I know is that a lot of people expected it to be, probably far, far more, and we thought we didn't do what we did. Looking at the environment around us, it's a huge payday. I worked in a state institution for three times the salary, a state body. That's it. Next, I have an addition to a separate life of 350 marks, I have an apartment rented from an institution, not from me, which is paid, if I'm not mistaken for 500 marks a month. I'm using a cell phone up to 150 marks. So, I didn't spend that much, but I'm up to 150 marks. Travel logs in BiH are 40 KM. I don't usually use them, if I don't sleep, because if I come on the official trip, I usually come to Sarajevo. That's when these are some personal receipts. That's what all the other stuff comes from. I'm not talking about using a fixed phone. We're networked, the cost is what it is. We planned a little training last year, and we'll probably do it this year. This is a new institution, our complete work will be in this year, and probably in the next period, based on the training of people who do this work and all those items that enter. So that's it. We'll do certain things, I'll consider it. We acted completely under the law, and when it comes to reporting, sending, we have the 2005 financial plan, delivered before this report, if I am not mistaken, the legal deadline was 1.12, and 3011, respectively, so the financial plan was delivered to Parliament. We've done this, what we've done. We will, if when, and I think we will, make certain changes, possibly and thus, deliver the amendments to Parliament, taking account of the new law, we are already obliged to make a budget for 2006 at the end of July, because it is dynamic, which is drawn in that law that speaks of the adoption of the budget at BiH level. There, that's it. What I could bring out here and, if there's anything else, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17030	Thank you, Mr. Salkić. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am concluding a debate on this subject. May I have your attention, please? So, just a few clarifications. We are discussing a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for El. Energy in 2004. This is a second-hand debate, after last time they decided to request further information. We got her. I think we've got answers to the questions we've asked. The 2005 financial plan is not the subject of work reports, as is the law itself. He was made in time by the agency and was delivered here to Parliament and MPs for insight. I propose that Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopt a report on the work of the National Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004. There are other suggestions here. 108 I will put them on the agenda, first of all by Mr Križanović, but this conclusion, the proposal for a conclusion, we adopt this report, I put to the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly with 29 votes in favour of, 2 votes against, 1 abstention and with a sufficient entity majority, adopted a report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electrical Energy in 2004. Mr. Jozo Križanović suggested
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17031	...proposal for adoption, before reading the proposals that exist. You're now a post-festum, I mean, now giving my proposals for consideration makes no sense. It happens, I'm now convinced that it happens very consciously. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17032	Mr. Križanović, everything I've done, I've done very consciously, there's no dilemma. It's one thing, very consciously I've done it and, by the way, everything I do, I'm doing here very consciously, it's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Križanović, you had a discussion before you put the contents of that discussion into two conclusions and delivered them to me here for the table and from yours, please, Mr. Križanović, let me lead this session, do not enter my word. I'm not getting into your word and I'm asking you nicely. You will leave these microphone commands to me here, if at all possible. May I have your attention, please? You have, therefore, presented your discussion and in your discussion you have proposed two conclusions and all MPs have heard what you are proposing, and I have, before I suggest a conclusion, which I must propose as chairman, I must, by law, suggest that we do so. Whether we adopt or not and said there are other conclusions from Mr. Joza Križanović. I didn't read them, because you said them in your discussion and I am very aware of that, of course, and I believe that I did it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in full compliance with the procedures that are present here in this home. After the House adopted the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for 2004, the Commission for Electricity, the Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2004, the state of play, the proposals for Mr Križanović's conclusions stand like this. The first was for the commission to consider this report and Mr Križanović said in his discussion, this conclusion is, in my opinion, groundless, after Parliament adopted the report. 109 And, secondly, we'll put this to a vote, but I'll tell you what's under the law. Mr Križanović suggests that we vote to oblige the Derk to supplement the report, therefore, to supplement this report with the 2005 financial plan, respecting the remarks and suggestions made in the debate and to bring it into line with similar institutions in BiH. I already said, when the law separates the work report and the financial plan. We have a financial plan, but here, if Parliament decides to do this too, let it be done, but by law this is not in accordance with the law. I put this second proposal to Mr. Joza Križanović's vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 9 for, 14 against, 11 abstentions. The proposal for a conclusion did not receive the required majority. This is how we ended the 10th agenda. Mr. Salkić, I thank you. You can stay away from the session, you can go, you can decide for yourself. We're going to the 11th point of the agenda. Ad.11. Report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives for a period of 1.7. - 31.12.2004 The Management Commission's report was sent to us on 23 February, in accordance with Article 42(3). The Administrative Commission reports to the House every six months. You got the report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Here you go. Who wants to talk? Mr. Muhamed Moranjkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of my fellow Members, the Management Commission's report speaks of an extremely large and complex job done by amateurs and subprofessionals, I say this, when I speak directly about the work they did on the Administrative Commission. Apparently, they performed it satisfactorily as real professionals and without much competence when it comes to material decision-making, and even my name was mentioned in that report. You know it's in the amanet of the Administrative Commission to find a place where clubs will work, but they're not given a chance except to do what they're supposed to do. Unfortunately, they do not have it, and normally it is a disgrace for this country that a Muhamed Moranjkić whom, not at my request, but at the request of the Ambassador of the Holandija, the current Presidential Assembly of the European Union,... the meeting I was to hold at the buffet of this building, and yet, I decided, because there was no place, the gentlemen came complete with the secretaries etc. From the embassy, so I put them in the reading room, after a long search for the key for an hour and a half of conversation with Mr. Ambassador, at least 30 times someone went into that reading room, went around the ambassador, and he turned around and turned around to see what was going on in this building. 110 So, when it comes to the work carried out by the Administrative Commission, it is practically denied the opportunity to do anything in this field. What I still want to point out is, the announced announcement in several cases, that much of what has been given to this committee by the Rules of Procedure is not legally regulated, which is simply not understandable to the highest institution, which is this Parliament and its commission, which solves much of what, Malta does not, as the management of this Parliament, have no legal regulation to solve it, but rather solves the ad-hoc from case to case, and it is likely that they can also be different archaics for the same things, it cannot be given in a negative context to that commission, but we have to solve this problem here at the Prlament or Business Office. I'm asking the question. Why isn't there any legal regulations? Is it because we don't have time to set it up, and according to that people in the master's worst house in the village, and in us in Parliament, the worst legal regulations, and we make laws for everyone in this country, we just can't bring ourselves. Is it possible that someone wants chaos or eclipse that they can sometimes do what is wrong in them and what is going to happen to us at that time and respect the work, because all we need to do is do something that is wrong and tell us that it is a hiducia in this country's Parliament? That's why I'm suggesting. To accept this commission's report, to commend it for its work, and that courage now in making certain decisions, while at the same time giving it the amanet that this Parliament is reporting which all the laws, laws and regulations are missing, so that they can legally do their job given to them by the Rules of Procedure and that, under two, the legislative regulations under the urgent procedure, the reduced 104 are taken in this Parliament, that we do not work in that commission illegally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17034	Thank you very much. I thank Mr. Moranjkić. Who else wants to talk? If no one ever answers their word again, I'd be the one to conclude the argument. I think we can approach the vote on our commission's work report. Of course, the Commission should take into account all the proposals, suggestions and opinions that were heard in today's debate. Mr. Moranjkić participated alone in the debate. I invite you to prepare for the vote. We vote on the Commission's report. I suggest that the House of Representatives adopt a report on the work of our administrative commission. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly with 31 votes in favour of, 1 against, without abstention, with a sufficient entity majority adopted a report on the work of the Administrative Commission of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a period of 1.7. - 31.12.2004. 111 We move to the 12th point of the agenda. Ad.12. The appointment of members of the Board of Regulatory Agency for Communications is proposed by the Council of Ministers of Honor and fellow Members, you have received a proposal from members of the Council of the Communications Regulatory Agency, which the Council of Ministers delivered to Parliament on 11 February. With the candidate's proposal, you've also got their biographies. I'll remind you that, based on Article 39. The BiH Communication Act, or the provision of Article 39, listen to me a little, please, where the proposed and appointed members of the Communications Agency are prescribed. In addition, it is said that the Agency has a council to be chaired by the Agency on strategic issues of law enforcement and that it consults and receives reports from the Director-General. In addition to the other Board of the Agency, it shall act as an appeal body for decisions taken by the Director-General. The Agency's Council of 7 members, proposed by the Council of Ministers on the basis of a list of candidates, is prescribed to be appointed by the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is further said that the Parliamentary Assembly accepts or rejects the proposed candidates within 30 days of the submission of the application. We'll see about the way we vote, there are suggestions here too, and I'm opening a debate on this. Who wants to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17035	Mr. Chairman, I would suggest, if it is in any way possible for us in front of the Council of Ministers to have someone introduce a reference to this subject for one simple reason that we have here before us, some of us may have more, but we only have a proposal to appoint people who should be biographies of people who should be appointed. It is known that the competition was a public competition. It is known that a number of candidates have come forward. It is also known in the public that it could have been means of information, that a larger number of candidates were also qualified for this, and therefore it would have been common and earlier in some cases it was to deliver a full report to us that the election process was carried out by now. Who are the people who are not accepted and who meet the conditions and why these are. I want to start by saying that all people don't know here, like, the question is, what would I have to know if, but since I'm getting circumstances for myself, this problem itself is pretty close to the professional line as a professor of communication and information technology, the less I know who is who in this country in this area and that some people I don't know don't mean it's not about quality people, but I can also say in the beginning that there would be no misunderstanding here is a number of people who are proposed, which I know is really about people who are measured and quality. And there's no need for us to be in a situation like this when we have people who certainly deserve to be in this thing to get 112 in a basket possibly with some people we don't know who they are, there might be some other opinions. Since it is therefore evident that people of different professional experience and different references, it would be normal, as it has always been normal before to vote individually, because this is not a package unless it is as a package politically agreed. But it's objectively about people, and every one of them has a name and name, and I have to admit that by not voting for, possibly because of someone for this whole list, I wouldn't want to be in a position to be an accomplice to eliminating people who and how they deserve to be there. And I'm taking the opportunity to tell the representatives here of the Council of Ministers that it's in principle about a number of people, at least I know who are of quality. Some of them are my colleagues and have top perphoms in this area, and some don't, and I know that some people who have been eliminated are better at perforations professionally than some of the ones you've suggested here. And we need to talk about it very openly.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17036	Thank you. Who wants to talk any further? Okay, Mr. Tihomir Gligorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17037	I'm joining this proposal by Mr. Lagumdžija. I also know personally why I don't say that I talked to the people who responded to the competition, the people who meet the conditions, but they've been eliminated in some strange selection and they're not on this list today. This is happening to us again. We have also had a big debate last time that some people who have also met the conditions have not been on the list and other times are now also proposed to us, or serve only one number of people and MPs are not at all in a position to have complete information in terms of whether there are other candidates, who are candidates, whether they meet the conditions for us to decide here in the final. Therefore, I also join in making it very important and important to provide complete information. I believe that today we are not in a position to plead on the Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications today until we have previously received one complete information with all the persons who have come forward and after that to plead. Otherwise, you parties in power only stretch the personnel that are yours and thus build complete infrastructures in Bosnia and Herzegovina only with your personnel policy. That's inadmissible. At least let go when it comes to professional matters, don't mix that policy, don't mix these people who meet the conditions, and don't eliminate them in any party. And that's why I think we should take this point off the agenda until we get the information and then decide. Thank you. 113
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17038	Thank you. We have Mr. Špirić in charge of the discussion and Mr. Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17039	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, I think that, of course, it would be good if we could get a wider list, but this is the offer we got from the Council of Ministers. But in a conversation with the management of this agency, there is also a need for this job to be done, because they have important jobs standing by because they can't make decisions. And now it's a matter of assessing whether to finish the job, or whether to make the choice go away. I also have information that there are people who are not in the narrow system that I would have chosen to be here, but we should know, if we don't finish work today, we don't choose to make decisions that are of interest to this country in one important regulatory agency. Is it possible to reconcile these two obstructive attitudes and in what way I don't know and I think unless the job is done today that we haven't done a good thing. In what way will we end, I therefore welcome all the suggestions that we are talking about, but to make a good move and to elect members of the Council so that this important agency, which for the first time is headed by a citizen of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is one I would say to a kind of director who asks, calls on Parliament to adopt therefore members of the Council so that we can work normally. Here in this sense I think it would be good today if we could get the strength to appoint members of the Council, and whenever they are named, there's a possibility of being disgruntled people, especially where the wider lists are, to stay some who are more quality, and to have less quality ones received, but aware of everything, so I think it's better to do the fill-up today than to make this go away in a month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17040	I thank Mr. Špirić. Mr. Momčilo Novaković asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17041	I thank Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I must say that by reading this subject I have actually paid attention to this part of which Mr. Špirić also spoke about, and that is therefore the request or position of the Regulatory Agency on the great importance that this work is done as soon as possible and that is why I am here today to finish the election. I must say, no one spoke to me from the post or from the opposition. So it's not one of those who's on the list or those who's not on the list. What are some talking about that 114 aren't on the list with some I don't know. I suppose everyone would have some of their own candidates here. So no one talked to me. I personally don't know any of the proposed candidates, but I don't think so either, nor do I intend to be here a competition committee, so I don't think that with a table of mistrust, I'm looking at the institution that she's proposing. For that reason, I will support this proposal, just given the fact that these candidates also meet the conditions, of course not to slow down that some who meet have not found here. But unfortunately, this is all it takes. Not anymore. I'm sure these are good candidates after some discussions here, and I haven't been convinced so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17042	I thank Mr. Novaković. I don't have any more discussions. There's gospodin Kunić reporting for discussion. You've already discussed Mr. Lagumdžija. I don't know what you have to do. You've finished your discussion, something, some sort of intervention, come up with something. Why are you calling in a minute? Well, you'll have your word. You can't discuss the same thing twice. Here you go, Mr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17043	You can't argue twice about a thing that's determined. Anyway, excuse me, Mr. President, I'd like to ask the following. Where was the competition announced for the election? In what sheets? I'm trying to find, I can't find. It's a very important thing. In which sheets. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17044	Please. You'll get an answer. You asked a question. Thank you, Mr. Kunić. Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17045	Nothing, since the minister, I, I haven't discussed myself, Mr. Chairman, I've asked a couple, which my friend Beriz would have said previous questions and I expected that from the Council of Ministers someone would answer to them. Well, then I'd like to discuss it. But here's the minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17046	You've been discussing it. You didn't ask the previous questions. He's not with us, so this isn't a litigation procedure for us to have preliminary questions. This is a parliamentary hall. Let it go. 115 Mr. Minister, please go to the pay phone. Minister of Human Rights Mr. Mirsad Kebo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17047	Not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17048	Minister, go ahead for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17049	Mr President, honourable MPs, or MPs, allow me to give you a few answers to the questions you have asked and to agree to apply to staff issues when we discuss them, agree on a methodology to provide you with all the additional elements that are necessary and which cause the same kind of questions. It means that we provide you with ever-wide lists of biographies that will allow, and Members of Parliament to make the right decisions. Regarding Mr Kunić's question, I would like to say that it was published on three occasions on 10.65.2004, 21.06.2004 and 23.08.2004 in the list Dnevni Avaz, Dnevni list, Glas Sr. and San and 52 candidates applied to this contest. In accordance with the provisions of the Communication Act, Article 39 The Council or the Board of the Agency shall act as a competition commission and have executed from 52 candidates, in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the selection of twice as many candidates as is required by the Law. So there are 14 candidates who meet the conditions and they have passed the process of talking, interviewing and all the other necessary actions that are being done in these cases. The Council of Ministers shall comply with the provisions of Article 39. The Law on Communications proposed 7 candidates to the Parliamentary Assembly. You've received these candidates and their biographies in your proposal. I also want, in response to Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's question, to read those names, and I think that technology is not a problem in the ministry, but in agreement between the services, it was not a problem to deliver the other 7 candidates' biographies. So the Council of the Resolution Agency proposed Zlatko Določek, Mahir Hadžiahmetović, Irena Mojović, Mehmed Spah, Lami Tanović, Branko Todorović, Neven Tomić, Ivan Lovrenović, Nenad Tanović, Slobodan Bošković, Edin Muminović, Sead Mulabegović, Branislav Božić and Rajk Popović, Rajko Popović. Their biographies and all the other data, here I am in preparation for this session prepared, I have them here and I can suggest for each of these candidates. However, the law says the Council of Ministers proposes 7 candidates and that the Parliamentary Assembly, either accepts or does not accept the proposal. Unless the Council of Ministers accepts it, it is up to the current list to propose other candidates. 116 But I ask you, it means that we would develop in the spirit of today's session trust between Parliament and the Council of Ministers that appropriate services are requested in all cases of appointments and these broad lists of what kind are available to parliamentarians and any subject which can enable them to make qualified and right decisions. I ask you to adopt this proposal as Mr. Novaković simply and the Council of Ministers and the Staff Committee unanimously came to this decision. In all appointments, a proposal can be triggered by appropriate reactions, either acceptance or non-acceptance, or the emphasis that there are better candidates. But believe me, we've come to this task responsibly and have unanimously committed ourselves to these candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17050	I thank Mr. Secretary. Does anyone else want to talk? Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17051	I thank Mr. Secretary Keba. I'm not maligned when I say this isn't from his portfolio, but it's good that he came to us because he's the right address since he's the president of the Staff Committee of the Council of Ministers, so the bodies that match it and practically your only measuring dish. Uh, now I've heard some names for the first time and I have to admit especially this part that Minister Kebo said is a little confusing because he said if he refused me by any chance this list, yes, clearly, if they refused, so if we were going in the package. First of all, if the package accepts people, it would be something that is not natural, given that they go in by name and last name with their own qualifications, because they did not as a group compete, but they applied individually. That's one thing. If it were going to go to the vote in the package, then it would be in a rather awkward situation if this one didn't get most of it. When a man counts you, he'll get most of it, but there's no need to play with people like that, because they didn't all deserve to be rejected, as they didn't deserve to pass. So if they don't all pass, then we'll wrong some of them. If they all go through again, we'll do the wrong thing to the other one, which I don't think we need. Then we'd settle down on those other seven people. From these biographies, some of these biographies are touching, I have to admit. You from these biographies can see that one missile expert, for the little ones, that as far as I know, it's not a matter of the Communications Regulatory Agency unless someone thinks to communicate with missiles. The second one is an oil expert, which in a broader sense the word communication can be connected. The third is, I see from this ambassador, and from his biography we see if a man has graduated from the 4th grade elementary school there in one village, because as he says so many classes has had school. He'd end up more, normally, but it's not his fault that the school was only four, right? For the fourth, we see that he's a football expert. Well, don't you think this has anything to do with the Regulatory Agency? What? What? 117
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17052	It's the most powerful medium in the world is football.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17053	And that's true. So, you have strings on your sides, since you haven't read it. What I'm about to read to you, you haven't read. You don't know Lamija Tanović's biography, because I think you don't know from this. There's another thing you need to know. You don't know Ivan Lovrenović's biography, because it doesn't say that here. You can't see, you don't know anything about Zlatko Določek's biography, because it doesn't say here. ________(?) [[not enabled]] Now, come to me, so, then, and I think this should be realized that I was told from the ruling coalition we have a biography of the congregation's majority which, clearly, made it clear that you do not understand the role of the Regulatory Agency's Council at all and that the Regulatory Agency is set up by law as it is set up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17055	May I have your attention, please? Mr. Lagumdžija, this is your second discussion. Please, please, please. I ask you to bring your discussion to an end because this is the second discussion of the same thing, we really must avoid the practice of discussing the same thing twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17056	Mr. Chairman, if you weren't present, do you need me to repeat what I said?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17057	Please don't. There's no need. I read the stenograms.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17058	Well you won't be thinking evenly about the decision, maybe my sentence could affect you if by any chance
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17059	I think I know you enough that I won't miss anything. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17060	Of course. Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17061	Please allow Mr. Lagudmžij to finish. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17062	One day someone will doctor on this stenogram and see what this country had to do in 2005 and they will see very clearly what you think about the role of Regulatory Agency, what you think about how the Council should be formed and what they say you choose to act on your parliamentary majority, if you think that's the essence of the whole problem, but I would suggest, if I understood correctly the minister to spare us the brunts and to deliver these other names and then as a real Parliament talk about them, and not with the argument, we are more than you. Unfortunately, you're more than us, and that's not controversial.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17063	Thank you, Mr. Lagumdžija. Please, thank you. Mr. Gligorić has a question. Please very briefly, Mr. Gligorić. You're on your way too.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17064	As the minister provided further information and I personally benefited, but I do not understand, you read Vlatko Določek in the first place, and if that's how it is likely by value, the procedure went first in those lists, and then completely disappeared from the first place, so it is not on the seventh in the official proposal. I'd like to see what you've been doing when you've already mentioned both the Staff Committee and the Council of Ministers, and if you hadn't previously considered, probably the one who's lined you up that he's lined it up by value, by qualification, by value, etc. If that man were in the last place I'd say well, he probably didn't meet the conditions, but being first of all a proposal according to the Staff Committee and according to the Council of Ministers and being completely wiped out, it doesn't make any sense to me. And the second question, and the second question, is that also Mišić, that Ivo Miro Jović react immediately, etc., it is so obvious that you have compared your party ruling infrastructure and thus install it in all state bodies. You don't have to answer that. That's all I think is clear. 119
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17065	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Gligorić. Please, I don't think there's any more, you're picking up. Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Jović. I'm begging you, let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17066	...offorma, no problem. I wasn't talking today, so here I am thanking you for giving me the opportunity to. Namely, I have some dilemmas, so I would like to share them out loud with Mr Parliamentarians. We had one case at the last, or the previous session, I literally want to keep it in a case where the current Regulatory Agency, which I didn't even know we were naming, or confirming, or giving consent, and when someone pulls into the public media that needs to kick us out, they shut up. And now we're dividing into an office and position. Again, I'd like to ask her to beat us again, keep them quiet and have a good pay, and we don't know what it is, what their national structure is, what they're doing at all. We're just obliged to put them right here to have a fat salary. And now I'm asking myself and you, am I straying? I am interested here, if the Minsitarian Council holds that position, that Parliament should propose a composition, because it is its role or not. Well, I don't know why this question, why the Council of Ministers would answer to someone for this to happen. Do these people have a qualification structure that pleases...? That's what I'm asking. We heard Mr. Secretary that they're satisfying. Isn't that enough? So in an equal struggle, the Council of Ministers doesn't have to explain what it was for. It's defined itself, and I'm the only one asking you all together to tell them, so don't wait any longer for them to beat us, because there's no need for that. And some people get paid, I see three times ours, and then they wave.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17067	I thank Mr. Jović. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is how I conclude the debate. The college, meanwhile, has consulted and the College feels that we need to make a statement on the list of these candidates. This is the position of the College, but I will put the College's position to the vote. We will, no, not since there have been proposals and individual statements, and the College has the right to think as well as these individual proposals, and now we will decide how we vote. College suggests, please nice. So, the College proposes that we vote for the candidate list and I put this proposal to the vote on how to vote for the list. 120 Who's in favour of voting for the list? Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 7 against, 3 abstentions, enough entity majority, we decided to vote for the list. Prepare to vote on the list of these seven names. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 20 for, 5 against, 6 abstentions, 13 Federations, 7 RS, enough entity majority. I find that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has appointed members of the Council of Communications Regulatory Agency according to the Council of Ministers' proposal, so 7 of those names and thank you very much. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda, that's Ad.13. Proposal for an interpretation at the request of the Commission to examine the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH Dear colleagues and colleagues, 23 February was sent to you, please, on 23 February, a request from the Commission to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the Law on Citizenship of BiH for the interpretation of the Law on Citizenship. A request for interpretation in the procedure in accordance with the House's conclusion on authentic interpretation. In line with the conclusion of the authentic interpretation, the College addressed the request to the Commission for Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, as a committee responsible, then to the Constitutional and Legal Commission and the Council of Ministers for their opinion. The Council of Ministers delivered an opinion to you on 9 March. In the first part of the session, on 10 March, you received a notice from the Commission on Human Rights, Immigration, Refugees and Asylum, which the College designated as competent to address this issue. As you have seen, our commission has informed us that it fully supports the Council of Ministers' position and its opinion expressed in an act that you have received as well as the opinion of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. I will remind you or quote only one part of the Council of Ministers' opinion and these are points c) and d). In point c), it is said – cannot be asked from the Parliamentary Assembly to interpret the legal relevance of certain cases of admission to citizenship because it is not the conclusion of Parliament because in this case it is not an authentic interpretation of the law. The position d) states, - the Commission is referring to this committee formed by the Council of Ministers, it is obliged to consider the status of the nationalised persons, for a period specified in the Commission's decision to set up, in accordance with the rules of the profession, in brackets, all members of the Commission are 121 lawyers, or to propose to the Council of Ministers or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to amend the rules which would resolve the issue. So these today were the views of the Council of Ministers, who were fully supported by our commission. The Human Rights Commission suggests that we take this notice to the knowledge, support the Commission's position and, of course, inform the Commission about the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the BiH Citizenship Act. This is what happened. We from the College have had several meetings with international community pessimists on this subject. I'm opening a debate on this agenda item, please. Mr. Nikola Špirić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17068	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, namely, this is unfortunately a problem we have been working on for a long time in BiH but we cannot get into an active state in which we would have arranged this matter in a way that we do not wait in front of the embassies, that we simply create such conditions to remove visa regimes for BiH citizens but the way we have worked so far, I am afraid it has not contributed to the creation of such an atmosphere. This is the problem we've been dealing with since '99. So for many years and this is the third assembly of Parliament that has been trying to deal with this problem. Exactly, counterpart Šefik said that we spoke to representatives of the OHR international community, unfortunately, I have a feeling that they have more will, sense and desire to resolve this problem than the BiH authorities want. What is here first for me symptomatically and controversially, we have a Commission appointed by the Council of Minsitarians. We have her direct address to Parliament to give an interpretation, not to address the body that has chosen, so that the body that has chosen the commission asks us what we think about it. This in itself says that something is wrong and that this is the third time that this kind of interpretation is asked of Parliament. In my opinion, but since it has already come before Parliament, I think Parliament should not sit with its hands cut, but should answer the question. I regret, therefore, that we have received such a response from the restoring ministry, which unfortunately has accepted our competent commission where it is said cannot be asked by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to interpret the legal relevance of certain cases of admission in BiH because this is not the Parliament's task because in this case it is not an authentic interpretation of the law. The Commission says here.... is obliged to consider the status of naturalised persons for a period specified in the decision, the establishment of the Commission in accordance with the rules of the profession etc. If this committee had been standing up, she wouldn't have come to us. I think that we, as Parliament, are obliged to give this interpretation and I do not see other institutions in this country, except for the Parliamentary Assembly that this can be interpreted. And I think that the Commission's demands for Parliament are clear, only the problem is that in this country they must repeat themselves, no one has the strength to give... the task. 122 I would like to draw attention to the fact that we had a commission in the Law on Citizenship that had the right to establish where citizenship was granted under the law and to take it away. This committee appointed by the Council of Ministers does not have that mandate and I think it is a mistake and should, in my view, amend those items in the Law on Citizenship. But here's what the Commission is looking for. I don't know if there's a mood or not. They say it's Article 3. Anexa I point of the General Agreement for Peace in BiH, the Agreement on the military aspects of the peace settlement prescribed by the interdepartmentary that all non-local military persons in BiH must withdraw together with equipment from BiH territory within 30 days of the day of entry into force of this annex. They still ask us questions. So no one could get citizenship because it was in the armed forces, any military or any other component. So he couldn't be rewarded for winning citizenship because he was at war in BiH, he was helping, I don't know any side of the war in BiH. So there's clear, I don't know what I need to read further. If the provisions of that annex are explicit and they say, so we have to help say, from to to, that decision, subject to questioning. And where someone was rewarded, they got citizenship because they participated, the Commission can take it away or if they prove valid documents that it's not, say, okay, this is citizenship okay. If the person is unsatisfactory, he can appeal to the court and the court will say okay, confirms or does not confirm citizenship. I don't know, maybe there aren't many cases like that, maybe there's not one, but we have to get out of this problem that way. And the Commission therefore asks Parliament, given the above circumstances, this commission has requested your interpretation, whether the admission of these persons to BiH citizenship after the signing of the Dayton Agreement is legal, whether it is legally relevant, or whether the Commission can consider the same persons to be legally valid or not. I don't think it's legal. I think we need to make a decision to give the Commission a mandate so that it can, but there is a need to amend the law, but here to say that the decadent provision of the Anex Dayton Peace Agreement must be applied. So that's what it is, the way we can get out of this problem. Any other outwitting, whose mandate is, is that, what the Commission can't do, creates an ugly picture of BiH. I'm not gonna talk about the problems we already have for no reason, so for no reason. And I think the only conclusion here is that we say okay, that period is subject to control and, of course, the second move would be to accept but of course when the Council of Ministers proposes an amendment to the Law on Citizenship, to give what rights to this commission that was formed and which was working in the last session. So where he finds out, he can also take away or confirm his citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17069	Thank you. Who else wants to talk? Mr. Tihomir Gligorić, then Mr. Momčilo Novaković, please welcome Mr. Kunić. 123
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17070	I worked at the Human Rights Commission and I supported this report that we're talking about today. I think it's quite enough for the Commission to consider the status of naturalised persons, that they can apply Annex I to this General Agreement, and that the problem within the Commission itself is, and therefore it would be good, if that commission can't do its job, and I don't think it can do the job because of some problems within that Commission, that it should take care of the Council of Ministers and resolve it either to finish the job or to disburse that commission and name another, new. Because, in this accompanying act, it clearly stands out, at the time was Minister Svetozar Mihajlović, who says that he needs that commission's position and downstairs in the last sentence, which is contrary to the provisions of the General Agreement on Peace in BiH, means it is clear to man that the situation should have been applied and that there is no need for any interpretation, an authentic interpretation of, say, the House of Representatives now here. Or I'm falling into contradiction because he's looking for an attitude and at the same time he's clear and he's finally signing it. In the same way, ministers continue to work in such a way as well as the Council of Ministers. I believe that the Dayton Peace Accords Annex I, which treats this military aspect and this particular issue, is quite clear, and the question now is whether we can give authentic interpretation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. I don't have any valid arguments in that direction. This is one specificity in relation to the authentic interpretations we give for the laws we adopt in this Parliament. Then, all who received citizenship and did not leave BiH and were in the armed forces, their individual solutions are considered void. And it's quite clear to any commission and I just don't know about our commission this, that it's a big problem even though the lawyers are there. This is about political reasons, some fears, some who know what interests within the Commission. If we're looking at this, I want to be extremely realistic, if we're looking at this from a military point of view, then you have to undo it. If we look at it from a civilian aspect, it means someone formed a marriage, etc. Then it's another new situation we can discuss. But you have to resolve the previous issue and take away citizenship for every one that you prove is contrary to this aneks I.. i that is why I am saying that I am still here and now, the report of the Commission on Human Rights because within the Constitutional Affairs Commission there have been such proposals to give authentic interpretation of what the Commission had in mind because the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Commission Mr. Ćeman was present and we have opted for this variant of the Council of Ministers as a good solution that there is no need to give authentic interpretation because the provision is absolutely clear. Unless someone wants to gain time, amnesty to the Commission that they can't do their job and that the Commission that wasn't getting up to do its job, we raise ourselves to that level that we are now dealing with one of the things notor fact that we could do alone because of some fears that they want to pass on to Parliament. And that is why I believe that there is no need and that is why I will support the Commission's report on human rights. 124
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17071	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Špirić, he's got a replica. Let Mr. Novaković prepare for the discussion, then Mr. Kunić, then Mrs. Seada palavrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17072	I'd just like to draw attention to one thing, not to be found in BiH. I say, this is a problem which unfortunately is more addressed by the international community than the authorities.... This is a problem that will be handled by processes in BiH if all the limited authorities work in this way. So this is seven years of outwitting what anyone needs to do. For seven years, there has been a problem, and for seven years, it's a coup for citizens to quit visas and to be free to go. Let's not open up any speedy cases now if there are any, if there aren't any, we don't mention names, etc. So here the Commission is clear, if it hadn't gotten into a cramp and no problem you wouldn't have asked us. But if we as a state Parliament are going to close our eyes and now put it back a little bit, then when the processes are conducted, and when we get an order, then we'll say, zente, that's the right thing to do. So, the Dayton Peace Agreement is clear. If there are any misunderstandings in the Commission, she asks Parliament, we say please change that item. No one can get citizenship who has remained under arms and is not a citizen of BiH's space. I don't know who he is, I don't know if xy was helping Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, no matter who. And maybe there won't be a problem when the case comes to an end. Or there'll be a bit of a problem. But that's the thing to get rid of. It is not good for BiH to be perceived as, it must produce stability rather than export instability in this way. And that is why I am asking for the strength to give the Commission and through the amendment of the law a mandate to be able to take citizenship. Last year, the Commission seized 380 citizens, I don't even know who they are. She had a mandate to do it. And this is the problem under the carpet. I also ask the Council of Ministers and Parliament to help us find an active position in the interests of the state, not xy-na. So, if you need an interpretation, let's give it to him. Now we're not going to interpret anything and we're talking about changes whether the time is 10 years one way or another. So here for me things are clear. I think today Parliament has to make some kind of decision. And it would be good to make a decision that isn't in collegiate with elemental logic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17073	Thank you. Next to the word, Mr Momčilo Novaković said to prepare for Mr Petar Kunić. After that, Mrs. Sead Palavrić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17074	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I think we seem to be talking about the same thing, in the same way, even setting the same thing up. Be careful whether the Commission was able to decide first or not, obviously not as soon as we heard from her. So if people could finish that job 125, they would have ended it without us. It's obvious it's not. If the norm is clear, then what is clear is clearly understood in the Commission in a different way. One realizes that it is clear that respect is therefore respected, Article 3. Anexa I, others, again, believes that it is clear that these things have been done before, means in some interspace, and just as it is clear to all in different ways, the Commission cannot, by consensus as the decision is intended to make, the Commission's decision to set up the Commission is foreseen, cannot make any obvious decisions. In that regard, I understand this problem and it seems to me that after this, the Commission will have nothing more than it had before this session. So people will still have a situation in the Commission as they have. There are two possible variations in me. One option is that the way this commission works is defined differently, so that the decision, regulation, law, etc. means a change in the direction in which the Commission could therefore make decisions. This way she obviously can't. The second veritant is, let's say, okay, it is clear to Parliament but this situation is clear to me, it is clear to me in the way that Mr Špirić explained, as it says in Article 3. Anexa, she's so clear to me and I get it that way. So, I understand that all those who have been from any country here, means by taking effect the Dayton Peace Agreement within 30 days can't be here and all the documents and all the other citizenships are zero to me in that period. That's, that's clear to me. Obviously, in the Commission some are so clear, others are different. The question now, how to formulate this interpretation that Mr. Špirić spoke of. So, in what way now we give it as a Dom formulate and make it clear to the Commission. Now, are we going to put ourselves in a position and let's say, who's to say that Annex I is the priority of Article 3. The Dayton Peace Agreement. For me, he is a priority. Can we ask that, ask the College, does that mean we can ask a question here to vote on it or we can't? One is the fact that we must and should allow the Commission to work. When I tell me, then I think of all the institutions in BiH and the Council of Ministers and us here. So we have to enable people to work if they're blocked and they can't work, then we need to unblock them in some way. I don't think it is, so if you want to take it seriously enough and look at all possible consequences, you won't consider any possible consequences of keeping this condition. I think everyone's running away from once cutting this thing off, anyway, cutting it off. And I'm in favor of us saying here, so it is a clear norm in the following way. Can we or can't we? It's now a matter that the College needs to see if we can go out with such a formulation, or if simply that solution here in this Assembly has a necessary this critical majority. I think it's logical, but obviously there are others, some other thoughts or let's say, someone's interests but obviously interests in the sense that this group can't finish its work or this commission. You see, at the very beginning, the Commission was given a very unfortunate name. So the nature status review committee... The status is clear. She should just determine whether it was 126 or not. So, does anyone or doesn't have that citizenship? That would have already solved the status. However, it was clearly put before the commission on purpose, such a situation has been put in place that the Commission can never resolve this and that is why people have come here because they cannot solve it. So, I am in favour of telling the Commission, this House, this Parliamentary Assembly, in this way, interprets that provision of the law and suggests that the Commission do so.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17075	Thank you. Mr. Špirić has a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17076	In fact, I think we all know the essence of the occasion, but here is a clear question from the Commission. Don't ask for that broad story. It may consider that the legal basis is legal or not relevant for that period. And here is the problem, here is the battle for the continuity of legal documents until the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement because there was a Law on Citizenship of the Republic of BiH in which the presence of armed forces was the starting size for citizenship. Here he says no, it can be a starting point for BiH's state. But those from outside, outside BiH, must leave BiH. So clear as day. People say, is this legally relevant, what's the question? Cache, given...the circumstances, this commission has requested your interpretation, whether the admission of those persons to BiH citizenship after the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement is legally relevant, or whether the Commission can consider the admission of those persons to BiH citizenship as legally valid or not. Yes or no. And Parliament's statement will be clear either we create a condition for them or we do not create. So, how anyone will plead less is important to me. But we have to have an answer, is it legally valid or not? And that's an interpretation, and I agree with Mr. Novaković that we may see differently and that will show the vote. So we can't stay here and give no answer. That's the ugliest message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17077	Thank you. Mr. Petar Kunić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17078	Dear gentlemen, that's a bit more complex than I've heard before. Someone asked the question of interpreting this annex. It is the High Representative's duty to interpret the Dayton Agreement, not this Assembly. Therefore, if we want to, if the expert service wants an interpretation, then it must address the High Representative to give an interpretation. The supreme interpreter here are all aspects of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's number one. 127 The number 2 is precisely about a certain legal norm, certain persons of the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the BiH Constitution until the entry into force of the BiH Citizenship Act. So, only those faces can be discussed not on other faces. That's number two. Number 3. Individual acts or administrative acts shall be issued for the acquisition of citizenship. Thus, this congregation has nothing to do with it, this congregation. It's a matter of the executive authority, a matter of the competent authorities who are solving, making a decision on admission to citizenship. From this, it is a matter of null administrative acts. With the adoption of an administrative act on the acquisition of citizenship, he had a legal norm that determined that such persons could under no circumstances be granted citizenship because they had to leave BiH territory. So it's about zero administrative acts. But there's a complicated situation. It is necessary to see the General Administrative Procedure Act, where a void administrative act can be declared within which time limit. I think that's important. Now we get that law in front of us. Whether the time limit is limited or if the date is not limited. The objective deadline for such acts is about 5 years, as a rule, may be longer, may be in some situations shorter. And, last thing I wanted to say, that's the question of the Commission. Firstly, I note that the Commission is not in the proper composition, as defined by the BiH Citizenship Act. As far as I can see, there are only two and three sides of the citizens, respectively. Therefore, the Commission did not work in the right composition. And that's what matters. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17079	Just keep going, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17080	I'd like to hear if they were involved? The fourth thing, which is very important here, is that naturalised persons who live, who have a residence in BiH after 8 years, cannot be taken away from citizenship after regular anturisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17081	Thank you. Mrs. Seada Palavrić, please. And after that, if there's no more reports and I'd be, there's Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, it's okay I have to look at this search engine here, there's no problem, you're up, so I'll talk. 128
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17082	I thank the chairman. For him, it would be quite acceptable what the Ministry of Civil Affairs did, and our Commission for Refugees and Human Rights. However, if my opponents didn't say we were running away from the problem, let me get involved in this problem differently. We must distinguish the military part from the Dayton Agreement and the civilian part of the Dayton Agreement. If we look at this, Annex I (a) Article 12, we will see that the supreme authority for interpreting this Annex I (a) Annex on military aspects, commander of AIFOR, is the supreme authority for interpreting the civilian part of the Dayton Agreement, the High Representative. Also, the Commission that we are talking about is provided for by the Constitution of BiH, a provision of Article 1.7c) which says that the Parliamentary Assembly will decide on persons naturalised after 6 April of '92, until the entry into force of this Constitution and we also have a situation until the adoption of the Law on Citizenship of BiH. So there is no dilemma that this issue from the BiH Constitution is from the civilian part and the BiH Constitution in Annex II, in transitional provisions, says, the continuity of the law, all the laws and rules of procedure, which are in force in BiH's territory, when the Constitution comes into force, remain in force to the extent that someone with the Constitution, until the government's competent authority of BiH determines otherwise. So it is important that the Law on the Citizenship of the Republic of BiH, which was then in force, does not conflict with the Constitution of BiH, and Annex I in the Constitution of BiH, contains in its documents interdependence with the International Civil and Political Rights Treaty of '66. etc. Therefore, I believe that the Law on Citizenship which allowed citizenship to be acquired in a way that was problematic for the Naturalisation Commission was in accordance with the Constitution and could be applied legally. So anyone who then gained citizenship on that basis acquired it in a legitimate way. Now, are we going to get out of a vicious circle now, and I think myself that many people who then acquired citizenship are not in BiH or are even moving around the white world and not remembering that they have BiH citizenship. What we should do is the initiative to change our current Law on Citizenship, to intervene in it in a way that now the citizenships that were then obtained in a legal way are reassessed and taken away from anyone who has forgotten that the citizens of BiH, on that basis or for some other reason, have now more offended that citizenship they have won. I think it's a way to solve this problem, not any authentic interpretation and delay. Thank you very much. 129
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17083	Thank you. Mr. Novaković has a replica, so then Mr. Ivo Miro Jović, then Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, then Mr. Živković, so you'll all come in line, Mr. Ćeman after Ivo Mire Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17084	The debate we're having here is just painting a picture, most likely of the Commission's work. So that's pretty much what it looks like to me, too, in the Commission. I can't believe that a colleague of Sead said that the law is not contrary to the Constitution if the Constitution has made it perfectly clear that everyone should leave within 30 days. I don't know, it's aneks I of i opšti Criminal Peace Agreement and we know what the Constitution is, we know what the Framework Peace Agreement, or peace agreement in BiH, we know aspects and we also know that all these documents are one whole. So all of these documents make up one whole. For me, the thing is quite clear here, but I said, it is obvious that for all of us it is clear but in different ways and for the members of the Commission it is clear but in different ways. This is where the people of the Commission made it clear whether it was legally valid or not, some standard. Are we the ones who have to say, can we say that? It is obvious that the Commission is talking to us, believing that we are the ones who can say it. And that we seem to be the only ones who can say that, in their opinion, of course. And I think, for me, that's clear, I think I can say. And that's why I'm trying to think that this question like I suggested to the College, to see how to ask the question, that the question can be asked here in this way.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17085	Thank you. Mr Ivo Miro Jović. Yes, you can. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Jović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17086	I apologize to both colleagues and colleagues. Uh, we've made a mega spectacle of every agenda point today, and I'm telling you that today is a big Thursday, so the opening day of Easter, and I expected today to bring this session to an end, and it seems to me that if this is such an important issue, I suggest we postpone for another session, to finish today's session finally, to come home to the night, at least we to which something of that holiday is valid and to mean. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17087	Thank you. So I appeal to my colleagues to take care of this fact. When I scheduled this session, I took care of it, and I talked to people who, tomorrow and the next day of the holiday, that is, took care of that fact, and I was asked of course to try to finish the work of 130 sessions, so that people get to the dark houses. And I'd like to pray, I think we have this agenda point and another very short one, and I think we can end up if we're short on this one, we're saying, we're not particularly outwitting ourselves, we're going to find a solution, we're going to express our position. And here I am, respecting what Mr. Zorić was talking about, and I appeal that we talk briefly and clearly about these things and of course as soon as possible. Here you go, Mr. Jović. You have a replica, don't you? He's got a replica, Mr. Jović. You're getting up twice. I beg your pardon, Mr. Kunić, so what can I do now?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17088	You could say what Mrs. Seada said that it was, that it was a military part. However, the exercise of rights and obligations concerns the civilian part. Therefore, it is not the interpretation of the High Representative that is not because they are not, it is not the pursuit of the right of military character but of civil character. And I'd like to beg you, I accept this, Zoric, to postpone it. This thing to forgive me, we can't all argue. So you don't know the matter. Matters don't know each other. It would also be good to postpone according to these suggestions at the session today, that the professional service really prepares a draft on this issue. We've heard a lot of things I think, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17089	Thank you. I'd like us to continue, yes we do, but I'd like to pray briefly if we can only speak. Here you go, Mr. Jović. Let's say it's a good idea to finish the session by half past five, I mean, we could do that if we were, uh, wait for a man to say, I mean this really, there's no such possibility, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17090	After the esteemed representative Jović, you really should, I agree, because I will be quite opposed to this today. I'm no different from a lot of people who called today's lawyer. But, you know, I certainly can read very well. And here all you have to do is read and be correct. And in Annex I, he says, all those who are, we've heard it's whether, who get caught up in 30 days, they have to leave if they're related to the military. And then here, it's called to the Constitution that's even more explicit about it, so it says, those that have been since 6 April of '92. So until the day of the coming of the Constitution, it is not by the thought of the people who gave these two documents, that he may speak after the Constitution, of the adoption of the Constitution. So not one word here the Constitution explicitly says, until the day of the Constitution's entry into force. That's why I have one proposal, I'm holding on, no matter what we've been talking about lately, the Council of Ministers, I'm holding this very serious, this institution of government, and I don't think it's appropriate to form a commission with this kind of assignment. My job would be to get the commission to work on who was breaking it, so he's making anti-Dayton decisions and receiving people illegally into citizenship and it's an explicit constitution, as I'm reading it and not interpreting it, and as I see this aneks I.. So I think the Commission has something to do, and all for the purpose of one 131 most important thing, the citizens of you gentlemen expect it to definitely become the component of Europe and that there are no lines in front of the embassies for the sake of our problems and our incompetence. Most of us have, our citizens have visas because this issue isn't solved, someone didn't want or wanted to continue the agony. This was supposed to work out a long time ago.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17091	Thank you. Mr. Ćeman Mirsad. Mr. Ćeman is now. Please, Mr. Ćeman called, but I think here he can, not a problem Mr. Lagumdžija here. No problem at all, please. There's a secretary of water, you see, here's a piece of paper, I'm reading, I'm not writing at all, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17092	I answered the line of Jović because I'm trying to get to the word, I see only one can come up with a line. He's reported regularly and I can't get a word out because the replicas are faster.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17093	Oh, come on, Mr. Lagumdžija, it really doesn't make sense, I mean what you're doing. Here's the Home Secretary, so, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17094	Okay, it doesn't make sense, can I go on?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17095	You can, please don't, without having to go where you don't have a place of staunch criticism. Here, look at the paper I'm reading on. I'm not gonna record it at all. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17096	Okay. A few previous facts, I'm not asking anyone, I just want to point out. How did this happen? I don't need to tell anyone in particular what happened on September 11th 2001. On the basis of this fact, on the basis of September 11, 2001, the Council of Ministers then formed a committee that has not been changed to date, which is in support of the fact that this parliamentary majority of yours knows it was a dirty business and no one wanted to get into it. And that's why you let these work. The Council of Ministers formed a commission and the commission corresponds to the Council of Ministers, it is seen from the decision of the way it was formed. The opinion we received, in front of this session, from our commission's competent authority, supports the Council of Ministers' practical opinion. And the Council of Ministers says in its opinion that Parliament has nothing to do with this, which is completely 132 exactly. What's the logical question, what are we talking about? I think it's normal to talk about this but not in this way and in this opinion. Because this Parliament is not in charge of giving an opinion on the relevance of the Commission's competence which we did not form but formed by the Council of Ministers. So we've entered a space where there's no way out because we're going to be spinning in a procedural plane, and essentially what it's about. It's something that's the bad side of the history of the country's state government. The fact that a number of people stayed here a month after the Dayton Agreement had no right to remain under the International Treaty, which we all call upon here. And, for all that, Mr. Chairman, my proposal according to what was said earlier, you have a majority, a child, agree on what to do with these people? You want to change the law? You want to handle this? As you named that regulator because you have math, now let's use that math and finish this job, solve this problem. I want you to solve this problem. This problem was created by the authorities on stage in this country in '95, 6, 7, 8, until 2000. And when 9/11 happened, when we signed what we signed as a country in which we all advocated, whether, in the single front of the fight against terrorism, terror is not a name for one people or one religion, but for the name and name of some people, we now have a problem. That problem, I'd ask you, we don't want Mr. Chairman, in this to simply participate. Give us an exit with a measuring document, the Council of Ministers which the previous Council of Ministers has turned out to be us, as your plan of activity to end this. Not that we're involved in your procedural misunderstandings. In other words, Mr. Bessler, I am deeply aware of the fact that what we now have in front of us, that this is the cancer of this country's wounds 100%. And no chips will help us say this. This is the seed that was sown in '96. and that cursed and moved on. And since you have a very good experience in how all this is made, you're going to have experience and how to unmount this. Well, come out with one attitude and we'll talk about it then. Otherwise, I really do consider Mr. Chairman that we have entered into something we do not need and we will no longer participate in this. And I'm going to make your life easier because you won't see me again today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17097	Thank you, Mr. Lagumbian. You, of course, have the right to behave the way you think. Mr. Novaković, replica. Let Ćeman Mirsad prepare for the discussion. And then, after that, Mr. Živković, it's my turn, Mr. Živković. Well, then I'll say something.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17098	Very short. First, as far as I know, a colleague of Lagumdžija also had a period in which he could change things the way he thought, so he could change them or not change them the way he didn't think they shouldn't change them. So, most likely this variant is different. 133 Secondly, it makes no sense now that Mr. Lagumdžija has left, so some incorrect allegations here his, I absolutely meant to point out but now it makes no sense, so it shows that what I once said and purposed, that in fact, in the future when Mr. Lagumdžija speaks, I will not attend his....
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17099	Yes, thank you, Mr. Novaković. Mr. Mirsad Ćeman, please. Have Mr. Živković prepare himself, and then I'll say something for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17100	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, in the first wave, I was going to really try not to be burdened by any day-to-day political or inter-party thoughts on this subject, speaking from the point of view that I understand this as a legal problem, and he has put before us a legal problem. Well, lucky for me, my colleague Lagumdžija, who came out, in a way this one, said, so I said some things, so I just said he almost undoed the motive to talk about this subject from a legal angle, but because two facts are important here. The first is, a commission that has a legal problem, to which extent I will not be politically speaking, was appointed by the Council of Ministers before this parliamentary assembly. The parliament in the previous meeting was asked by the same commission on this issue. So these are the facts and this same parliament and this same commission were not obvious about this problem. I understand the legal dilemmas of the members of the commission and perhaps even the unpreparedness of Parliament whose mandate came out in 5-6 months at that time, that he did not engage in the issue. I have been on the trail of preparedness more for legal correctness, to say the collegiate reasons and through the Constitutional and Legal Commission to try to engage in the procedure, even giving authentic interpretation because I simply considered this issue and this problem, not a question of position or opposition, but a simple legal problem in which it should help resolve a single working body, ad hoc working body. That's why the Constitutional and Legal Commission, although I speak for myself, was somehow headed that way. I also agree, and sometimes I say that math is not 2x2 always 4, and right is not always like that and there are really different opinions and should also be looked at with respect to different legal views and opinions. So with respect, I read the opinion of the Council of Ministers and the Resort Ministry in which they feel that there is no need to give an authentic interpretation from a formal legal point of view. I was going through another legal logic that if the continuity of the rules that had a certain legal fact was in force, and it reflected the rights of citizens, certain citizens and if the effects of these regulations were still felt, or should be annulled on the basis of something that made sense to engage in this kind of authentic and legal interpretation. But here I admit that this opinion from the Council of Ministers may be more legally correct. 134 Now to return to the position of a working group that has a problem with the legal nature and understanding of this issue and politics. Indeed, if we ignore the classification, and at this point by some pattern of recognizable, the lawyers here, there is Professor Kunić quite right, I agree, they have a lot of dilemmas. They're having a dilemma. I speak exclusively as a lawyer. In fact, it is said that the continuity of the regulations applies to Annex 2.2. If it is not in accordance with the Constitution, it is not an integral part of the Constitution. So one fact. We can also talk about the letter and the spirit of the agreement as a whole, but sometimes the norm is so. On the other hand, it says exactly the continuity of the regulations. Period, watch the law now, so I'm speaking as a lawyer, so in the end I'm going to suggest what's my way out of this. A period that is controversial, period, I'm talking about a period of so, persona, I don't know, nor us them, the procedure would recognize etc. They've been two years. The question arises, legally, is it legal to fulfil the Dayton obligation, from this Annex I, that persons with a month of delay, or two months of delay to which those provisions applied, have left the country, or is it fulfilled, if they have left the country? Yes, it is. It is a legal question whether this calls into question legal consequences possibly on some other basis. Because it could have happened in a period of two years that someone who, again legally speaking, had left the country, which was in the context of understanding of the Peace Agreement, because of the trust of the parties after a year came and said – please give me a nice basis for receiving citizenship at a time when trust was being restored, etc. So it's really for someone who solves as an administrator lawyer, the question is, when one of the provisions of the law of that agreement is fulfilled, could it then be the basis for establishing a right? So I'm saying that legally, they're not without a basis to ask these questions, and I understand the commission in that sense. I understand the commission. Now what can happen? If we consider that the commission's task, unlike the other commission whose task was to examine and even take away citizenship in the '92-95 period, this commission had, I don't know if it was an accident, or on purpose, just an assignment to examine the status. I see Mr Pandurević here, and who else, I think it was quite too much for me to find out which category he refers to, to extract statistics on everything, etc., possibly to present these dilemmas and to say that status can be solved in two possible ways. Under the rules of administrative law, or under the law of the supervisory authority, and the recommendation of the commission could have been without entering this kind of interpretation because the commission obviously did not have the right to decide on their status, but only to define it in some way etc. Then, by the right of administrative oversight, or in her report, she could say that she was going too far, and that is that the spirit of the agreement implies that, regardless of the provision in Annex 2.2 to the Constitution which states on the continuity of the regulation, that provision in the agreement on the military aspects of the Peace Agreement is, in fact, in some way, either, or derogating this other, or they are in conflict with each other, which is stronger. In that case, once a very, very, very legal situation, I am not interested in political approach either way, but legally, professionally, it could then be said that the competent authorities can bring and need to bring, where 135 estimates that there really is a basis for it, a solution to the administrative act on the seizure of citizenship, regardless, here you see people being judged not knowing where in The Hague etc., but respecting their human rights, of course with the right to legal remedy, is being conducted, and this issue could have ended in an administrative procedure already, possibly where, perhaps now, I will be equally correct to the judges, perhaps some of these dilemmas have been transferred to court, rather than to this Parliament. And then the court would indeed, which perhaps in administrative proceedings, or a request for, excuse me in the administrative dispute, that's what I was going to say to the professors, the court, possibly in the administrative dispute, if anyone were to complain, etc. establish, or a second-degree body in relation to first-degree solutions, if the party would not be satisfied and come and resolve these dilemmas. So, to conclude, as far as I'm concerned, I think that the commission, given all these dilemmas, should simply list them in its report and then possibly according to the rules of administrative law and administrative procedure, should propose a way to resolve these matters with the possibility of taking away citizenship and, of course, it implies the possibility of legal medicines and thus end its work. Because from what I've seen, it wasn't the commission's task to say who it is, who it is, or at least I don't understand it that way, because I have two decisions to appoint different committees. Anything else, if you really don't accept it here, and I admit that there are arguments in the sense that we can't go to authentic interpretation, although he says I was ready to go that way, regulations that no longer apply. So there's a key moment that has somehow led me as a lawyer here to reevaluate my position, a regulation that no longer applies, and we can't now give authentic interpretation. Everything else is therefore a matter of understanding in all possible ways that we have heard here, these provisions, and that is why it seems to me, although of course this aspect of which Lagumdžija spoke, other aspects of this problem may be for this assembly, but giving a binding opinion obviously has more reason to accept the Council of Ministers' argument than to engage in an authentic interpretation of a proposal that does not exist. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17101	Thank you, Mirsad. Please, we've got more, we've agreed by 5:30. We'll finish the session, please, colleagues, yes, here we go. Mr. Živković, I'll do it very briefly, then I'll suggest, and we'll decide. We only have one more point.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17102	Very briefly, given what Mr. Zorić was saying, namely colleagues Ćeman and Professor Kunić are right in part that the lawyers here have the last word and that this is actually legal matter. But looking at all the laws we're making and the things we're discussing turns out that only the lawyers here need to sit down. 136 However, we are representatives of a part of the people who are personally concerned with this matter where, in their words to the hearths, some other people are these and who have an objective problem, and we are their representatives and we need to solve this and we need to say our commitment to solve the problem. So I give my commitment that this problem should be solved. It has been too long and it needs to be resolved and I believe that this parliament has the strength to solve the problem, regardless of what the Council of Ministers seems to be constantly, constantly these two years, part of the responsibility is transferred to this parliament. And that's undeniable. On the other hand, all of us here have signed and voted in favour of counterterrorism conventions. If there is any indication that people who have gained citizenship in this way can create a problem for the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am in favour of this situation to resolve it, but not in the way Mrs. Palavrić said it, it means that we are now looking for them somewhere around the world and asking them whether they will leave that citizenship or not to leave that citizenship. It's a sizif job where we have information, people have changed their name and last name five times, and no one in this country could do it. I'm closer to taking away citizenship temporarily so everyone can make a new claim for citizenship, please. It's a much easier way for him to come to you than for you to look for him around the world, so let's see who has the real right to get that citizenship and the request he's getting rid of. Of course, we should include OHR here, because he is also an interpreter of the Dayton Constitution and that annex, so let's see how the international community has its opinion on the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but whatever we do, I think we agreed that we should give some time. And if you're making any conclusions, please make it a deadline in those conclusions to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17103	I thank Dr. Živković. The word has the chairman, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17104	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respecting and appreciating the time that remains as we agreed on for about 20 minutes so that our respected colleagues who have a religious holiday can arrive and carry out their duties, I will say a few sentences very briefly. First of all, I am fully aware that today, since the Constitutional and Legal Committee of our home has not shown itself on this issue, this House can practically not be prepared to give a relevant, competent opinion, and the Constitutional and Legal Commission has not done so because the opinion of the Council of Ministers supported by our commission has come, and the Council of Ministers of course has the right to think and think of our commission responsible for refugees and displaced persons and human rights has the right to think in the way that it thinks, I, on the other hand, think that we have to solve this problem. This issue must be resolved, but I agree with Mr Kunić that this is a multi-layered legal problem and that in solving a multi-layered legal problem one body that is understood, who knows what a zero act, who knows what a military, what a civil aspect, who knows, who knows what the Law of Citizenship is, who knows what 137 status is, what the word status means, etc. etc. This is to solve the problem, and we wouldn't make a mistake. So the goal is that what's legal to be legal, what's illegal to be illegal, and that's how we treat it, so there's no dilemma. Here is just the goal of being legally justified and of not making a mistake. That's the most important thing. In this context, I believe, you see, we had a commission and under the Constitution we had a commission and under the Law on Citizenship of '98, '99, which discussed the status of naturalised persons until the date of entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, until 15 December 1995. And then, on 27 September 2001, it was formed by the Council of Ministers of Commissions which examines the status of persons naturalised from the date of entry into force of the Constitution until the date of entry into force of the Law on Citizenship. First of all, I think this second commission should have the same powers as that commission that worked in the period since, which has been working on the verification of these naturalized citizenships since '92. '95. A year. There's no reason this other commission doesn't have the same authority. So that's what I mean. And the other thing, very questionable here, is that it is very questionable to discuss the relationship between the continuity of the legal rules under the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to the Annex Ia) of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And for that reason, I think it would be best to seek a solution on this trail to, or amend the Law on Citizenship, or supplement the Council of Ministers' decisions, which will explain the mandate of this commission precisely. Here in the presidency's term, it is said, these other neighbours, the Pandurevic Commission, that we call it that, because Mr Pandurević is present here, the commission's task is to consider the status of persons naturalised after the entry into force of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina and before the entry into force of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Citizenship Act in accordance with the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Commission, etc. But be careful, there are no provisions in the Law on Citizenship here, and this is said to be the case – the Commission is considering individual requirements for citizenship based on the naturalisation granted in the period referred to in Article 40(1), to that end, it is considering the data supplied to it by the person concerned as well as the procedural correctness. At the request of the commission of the person concerned, the competent authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the entities must provide it with all the necessary information within the time limit set by the Commission. If the person concerned does not comply with the request for the delivery of the information referred to in Article 2(2), the Commission may withdraw his citizenship. This says, this is the mandate of this first commission. And of course there's a real complaint, there's everything. I think this mandate should qualify this commission as well. That's why it's necessary, I don't know now, which is why we need a legal opinion, or a change of the Law on Citizenship, or we need an addition to the Council of Ministers' decision. I think there's going to be a change of the Citizenship Act. That is, and we, as Parliament, will decide. In this way, we will avoid the situation relating to the debate on the continuity of the legal regulations of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and of Anek Ia, and in this way we will ensure what is our goal, and I said at the beginning what is the 138th objective. The goal is to make it clear that what is legal is legal, if there is anything illegal to make it clear that it is illegal. It's the interest of all of us here. That is why I propose that we now end the debate on this matter or today end this item of the agenda in a way that we assign our constitutional-legal committee, not related to the interpretations, that the Constitutional and Legal Committee sees this whole paragraph and that the Constitutional-Legal Commission, given everything it knows, and also these discussions it has here, until the next session that will be in the next 20 days to prepare some way out of this situation. I'm thinking of a clue to what we're talking about, and that would be the only way for me to end this agenda today. Of course, it doesn't bother the Council of Ministers to do their part of the job on the proposal, it doesn't interfere with the OHR, it doesn't interfere with the College, but I think this would be fair to this situation that we need to resolve this issue in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17105	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, vice president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17106	Here, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very briefly to track down what is now at the end and chairing my opinion. So Parliament will have to say something about this. You know why, not because you can play ping pong, but because this is a serious problem for this country. And all those who have had the opportunity to discuss those priorities for the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is, one of them is certainly the visa waiver, meeting with the request of relevant international factors, and you gentlemen have not yet bit the elemental stuff. We have to tell the public. So we don't need to shed illusions that tomorrow's visa regime towards Bosnia and Herzegovina will be liberalised if we inside domestic institutions can't resolve this issue. So we need to make it clear and loud, or if we're playing now to get rid of the High Representative. It will be next and very soon, because someone else will take responsibility for these people. So let them give themselves up. What is more important here, the interest of people and citizens, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, shows that they can go tomorrow and make decisions and integrate into the modern world or ping pong balls and political games. I'm committed to this second. It's not enough, it needs to be returned to the commission, it needs to be returned, give article 105. The Council of Ministers. I think we can change the law here at the next session. But that's not enough. Someone's gonna have to tell you what's older, Dejton, or that continuity. And that's clear. No matter what we can do legally, but that's no problem for this country. Let's get him out of here. If the Peace Agreement is signed, if all parties have signed it, let's respect it in that important element and we've solved the matter. Let it be accepted, I accept that the Constitutional Commission, but let us show that we can handle this. In the next month, let's get this over with. We don't need a High Representative, so let's show the people and the public that we can. Thank you. 139
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17107	I thank Mr. Raguž. I don't have any more applications for. Mr. Ćeman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17108	...that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is dealing with any question. Besides, we've proven so far that we haven't run from our assignments. But if a legal opinion is required, let it also be spoken in a legal language that it is then quite normal to find that there is a legal dilemma. If political messages are to be sent, then of course I think this audience can be unanimous about sending certain political messages. As a result of this, it seems to me to be the most likely, I was in some way on the trail of this issue when I mentioned the possibility of the development of this issue in a perfectly normal administrative procedure, it seems to me in the administrative, this proposal by Mr Džaferović is good for this parliament to express its view that the mandate of this commission should be extended. The Commission will solve the status as it solves, if x there, y is dissatisfied, it will complain. We've actually unplugged it and sent this message, and it seems to me that, too, my colleague Raguž is talking about, that this is how Parliament got involved. So the commission doesn't have to stand in a stalemate either, just let the matter be resolved. I point out that this is important certainly from all aspects of the issue, but if legal resolution is required, then let it be resolved in a legal manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17109	Of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17110	If another solution is required, then let's say we're looking for another solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17111	Mr. Ćeman, I have deliberately discussed today possible ways of solving this problem. I didn't claim at all what I said to be so. But I've been very consciously discussing getting it into a stenogram so the Constitutional and Legal Commission will have my opinion and my discussion, since I'm not a member of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, as well as discussions of all of us here and all of these opinions on this issue. I think it would be best to determine, to put in charge of the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that within 15 days, to give legal consideration to this issue. Of course, the Constitutional and Legal Commission is required to give legal consideration. This is today a discussion without the Constitutional and Legal Commission's stance. Mrs. Palavrić is asking for a word. Here you go. 140
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17112	I apologize, I think it is a short cut to solve this problem on the trail of Mr. Džaferović's proposal in part, so to ask the Council of Ministers to give this commission the same mandate as the first commission. And let her work. And let's not go back to the Constitutional and Legal Commission for nothing like this. First of all, I do not believe, I am not optimistic that a solution can be reached, and secondly, the EUFOR commander will rise now and the High Representative and tell the gentlemen, we are the Supreme Authority. One for the civilian part, one for the military section and let them interpret theirs. Let the Commission work at the same time. Theyimati have the right to appeal, they'll have decisions, there'll be a court and no problem. I think that's the simplest thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17113	Look, look here, look here, I think we would need it, so I agree, I said what I said, we would need the opinion of the Constitutional and Legal Commission and what we were talking about. We want our discussions to be tested on the professional body of people. That we have it here as a report. He doesn't mind doing the Council of Ministers on what he heard. He's got powers. It doesn't bother OHR to work. But to give me a precise expert opinion as Parliament. These were discussions and possible suggestions. We need a proposal from the Constitutional and Legal Commission, and we have given content, we have given what the Constitutional and Legal Commission needs. And that is why I believe that the Constitutional and Legal Commission should come up with an appropriate proposal and therefore I propose that we assign the Constitutional and Legal Commission to us in the next 15 days, in the next 15 days, to the legal aspects of the solution to this issue. For us, for home to know how we'll respond. And then we'll put it as a part of the agenda and definitely set ourselves up. Here, I suggest we make a statement on this conclusion. I invite you to, if we can, Mr. Gligorić. Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17114	If I had my opinion on this question, if we respect what Mr. Raguž was talking about, then it is better that we resolve this issue, because what Sead proposes every time the High Representative intervenes on such issues, it distances us from Euro-Atlantic integration. And since that's a big one question, we'd better put it back the way we chaired it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-03-10-0.u17115	Mr. Gligorić will not be able to handle it without the Council of Ministers, without this parliament and the way we are going. Because, watch out, it is possible that, I am now thinking if the Constitutional Commission accepts these discussions, it is possible that the Constitutional and Legal Commission, that 141 House, next time respecting the Constitutional and Legal Commission report, determines that it is necessary to extend the mandate of this committee. That's why I need to change the law. So he must react to the Council of Ministers, he must react to this parliament. We just have to work, we have to work on deadlines, we have to work on it, because the problem has to be solved, and that's why I put this proposal to the vote. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina with 25 votes in favour of, 1 against, 2 abstentions and with a sufficient entity majority accepted the conclusion that the Constitutional and Legal Commission is in charge of, within 15 days, that the legal aspects of the solution to this issue that was on the agenda today. In this way we ended point 12, excuse me 13 of the day's work. Moving to point 14. I apologize very soon we'll be done. Ad.14. The appointment of three members in the Joint Commission of both homes in order to reach an agreement on the identical text of the Postal Law was adopted in various texts in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, and therefore it is necessary to establish a joint commission in order to bring the single text into line. They are on the Commission's Enlargement College proposed -- Izet Hadžić, Milorad Živković and Vinko Zorić. I'm having a discussion. Who wants to talk? Niko. I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote now. Look a little, please. We only need two more minutes. We've got until half past five, seven more minutes. Just for a little while please, stay for a while. Mr. Jozo, stay in the O.R. for a while. I find the House of Representatives with 27 votes in favour, without against and 1 abstention, with a sufficient entity majority formed this committee for text alignment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will hereby announce that the 53rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina has ended. I wish to congratulate our fellow Hrvat, Catholics, on the coming Easter holidays and to apologize to them for working here today until a time when I doubt that without any great hurry they will be able to carry out their religious obligations and I ask them to respect this apology, because we have tried to do indeed today. Thank you alive and well. The seat's finished at 16:30. 142
