ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20301	...and, gentlemen, honourable guests, I am opening the 68th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests, representatives of international orchids who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of this house, have been invited to attend the session. In that name, I welcome all present MPs and guests. I also represent representatives of public information funds. According to a report by the competent service, I find that the session is attended by 25 MPs, 17 from the Federation, 8 from the RS, which means we have a quorum for full-time and full-fledged decision-making. I would like to stress that the absence from this session was justified by Ljiljana Milićević, Fatima Leho, Muhamed Moranjkić and Dušanka Majkić, and all those who did not justify their absence, I expect that during this session they will attend and attend this session. Ladies and gentlemen, you have seen that we have convened this session within 10 days, so using the special provisions of our Rules of Procedure and for this session we have proposed only one item of the agenda, which is the decision to accept the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in BiH. So, we also held a session of the Expansive College, and there we asked our colleagues not to have a request to extend the agenda for the reason that we will also have the next session on the 25th and you will be invited today to the next session that will be discussed all the points that they can, which are past the business procedure. I hope you ladies and gentlemen don't have any new proposals to expand the agenda. But here, I'm asking a question and I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who's answering for a word? He's not answering, about the agenda, yeah. Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20302	Mr. Chairman, I'd like to speak to you before we determine the agenda to answer my agenda question. In fact, at the last session, we had a request that our Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VAT and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act of Accises be put in place and solved that problem with the Constitutional and Legal Commission. It is said then that it is concluded, correct me if I am wrong, that the Commission for Finance and Budget should do its job and that no later than 15, which is true tomorrow, that no later than 15 at the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on VAT and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises will be incorporated. 2 I ask you this because since it is not proposed today, does this mean that we will have a new session tomorrow, does this mean that you were planning an extraordinary session today where it would be, or that conclusion is not valid? That's what I'm saying because Mr. Chairman, we keep getting it from the Council of Ministers, from the Management Board of Direct Taxation, that it's too late, that there's not much time to amend and supplement the VAT law, and in this way, I'm afraid that we're just this one, wasting time that's going to make that argument even more valid than it is right now. Well, I'd like you to tell me what's going on, if that's going to be, if we're going to have an emergency session tomorrow, if we're going to have a sequel today, because it's the deadline that we've set ourselves. It wouldn't be good if the House of Representatives was an obstacle to VAT, even if he was rejected.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20303	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Of course, I'll answer your question. This session has been convened according to special conditions and circumstances, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So please don't extend the agenda point. As far as I know, the committee responsible for this request has done its job. Today you will receive a report from the committee responsible on the table. So we won't have a session tomorrow. I'm asking for understanding, so we're going to have this point of the 25th and we're going to talk about it seriously. Ten days, according to my assessment won't make things worse or worse, but here I am asking my colleagues that when they get the report, to pay full attention, to prepare themselves, so 25th is definitely going to be the point of the agenda. It is true that we adopted the conclusion that it would be until 15 because we spoke until the next session, and then we adopted that it was 15. I beg your understanding, I share my vision with you that this is an important part of the agenda. Here, I'd like to ask you not to put this session on the line today. So, the committee's report is complete, will be forwarded today to the MPs and to prepare for the debate at the next session that is scheduled today. We don't have conditions because many dots are others, too, waiting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20304	Mr. Chairman, I totally understand why we have a session today with only one item on the agenda and we don't mind having a session today with one item on the agenda that you adopted. However, I still do, I'm afraid your argument brings me into a position to express my dissatisfaction least, because, therefore, I don't want to use the business opportunity for us to plead here on an additional agenda, there's no need to do that, but Mr. Chairman, we had a commission five days ago, which concluded what it had concluded. And her conclusion was very simple. She's the one who dumped our law. It didn't take him five days to figure it out. So that's one thing. Second thing, I don't see why we're waiting another 11 days, why 25? Why not this afternoon? Why not tomorrow? Why not on Monday, that we have the VAT law, because if it's already clear to everyone that it's going to refuse our law, then we can have it on December 30th, but don't, I know that you, I know Mr. Chairman that the parliamentary majority has a majority to refuse our law, but there's no reason not to do so sooner. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20305	You're right, so I don't mind. So it's very important because today they're going to get the MPs' report. It's a complex problem, to study it, to conduct a quality discussion. It's not a problem, as far as I'm concerned, that we're having a session today, so I don't know what time it is, etc. But I beg you, therefore, for understanding, that we here in the College can take a break after this session, see how this job ends. So, here I'm just asking you to conclude today about the agenda of this session, and that remains, of course, to agree. As far as I'm concerned, we can do it today, we can do it tomorrow, but we have to have a mood in clubs, in the College, that this session is held and that it may not be tied to 25th, but here we are, in a promise that we will see it during the day, so we will inform you. So, here you go,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20306	Chairman, is it possible for you to have some working conclusion, to try to find the possibility that before 25 we have anything, let that agenda point be sufficient reason for the extraordinary session. Well, there's no problem, so be it with that law, but I'd just like to ask you, if you can sort out some kind of deal between you to try and figure out a way before 25. Any date, I see that Mr. Dđaferović says in advance, he can't. I didn't expect anything else from them, I know that they'd be very happy that they couldn't do it all together, I know that they'd be happy that we don't exist, but let us have some elemental order to answer what we're going to do with this thing that's been dragging us around for a long time.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20307	I understand you absolutely, and I consider the seriousness of argumentation, but please, we don't have the conditions as far as I see in the College to reach an agreement, give me time, you'll be informed as a club, and as a driver of the initiative, but here we don't have the conditions, and I'm asking you that, therefore, I appreciate the seriousness okay, give today to finish this session, you'll be notified, please. Okay. Here's Dr. Duraković asking for a word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20308	I think that this.....is involved, but that there wouldn't be an ad hoc fracture, maybe we should set ourselves up right now, that session as an emergency next Wednesday. And I think there's plenty of time to prepare thoroughly and have a quality debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20309	Please, see, the session is scheduled by the Business College. I beg you, therefore, to have patience and to give us time to prepare the session. It's not a problem. We need to prepare all the sessions responsibly. I understand the seriousness and the argument, I understand the desire to argue, but understand the desire to prepare it all. So we take it seriously, we're going to work in the College, you're going to get information without today's session, so we're not burdening the team. Any suggestions to supplement the agenda today? Please, Dr. Lagumdžija understands even though I take his argument seriously. Any suggestions for a supplement? There isn't. I figure we've adopted the point, the only point of the agenda, and that's 4-1. The decision to accept the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina Ladies and gentlemen, you know that in the meantime, much has happened to accept the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was a key condition for BiH to get the opportunity to join Stabilisation and Association negotiations. I'll just remind you of a few facts regarding this agreement. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 October 2005, adopted an agreement on the restructuring of police structures and delivered it to the BiH Parliament. On 6 October 2005, OHR also delivered to Parliament the Agreement and the letter from Mr. Fabricio Barbaroz, Deputy Director-General of the European Commission for Enlargement, confirming that the mention of the Agreement is in line with three European principles. On 7 October, I sent you the text of the Agreement in local and English, as well as the letter of the OHR and Mr Barbaroz. You later received an envelope from the OHR containing a set of materials and, among them, the relevant Agreement with the accompanying acts. The agreement was discussed and accepted by the BiH Council of Ministers, the agreement was also adopted in the Federation of BiH Parliament. Therefore, it was considered and accepted both at the House of Representatives and at the House of the Peoples of the Federation. These are ladies and gentlemen, the basic remarks and the sequence of these events to speed up BiH's path to Euro-Atlantic integration, which we have confirmed countless times in different ways, I think that was also the basic reason why we used the business opportunities to send a signal from the state parliament because it requires the agreement, therefore, the European Commission, in which it thinks that if this agreement is confirmed by the state Parliament, it will be sufficient for the European Commission to get a signal that three European principles have been adopted to enter into a serious process of restructuring police structures in BiH. In that sense, we had an extended college in which we talked to club presidents at half past ten. We wanted to send a political signal from the state parliament today that we are part of this joint consensus in BiH and that we are ready to enter this serious process, in order to simply come up with the best model of police restructuring in BiH. The proposal was that today we do not open all the fierce political debates and all that followed the debate on police structures reform, different views, sometimes disputes and I think that today we should congratulate those who unfortunately with a dose of delay have been able to see, that only on the basis of European principles can we enter into this process, to preserve today this consensus that has been reached and send perhaps from this dramatic Parliament a strong message that we are also ready to say today that this agreement is acceptable to us in the state Parliament. In this sense, we within the College have prepared a conclusion that we are simple and in the enlarged college seems to have been given support for it, which is that only one position, I will read it, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accepts the Agreement on the restructuring of police structures in BiH, in the text delivered to the House by the Council of Ministers. I purposely speak to the Council of Ministers, here we have, I welcome him, Minister Bariš Čolak, who is ready to interpret it. So, of all of us, we've received an identical agreement but the Council of Ministers is that it sends an agreement into the procedure to the House of Representatives. And, here, I ask you, today we simply make sure that through the debate we support this agreement and principles and thus send a signal that we are ready to work seriously on this job 5 through the adoption of laws concerning police reform. It awaits us, of course, as a state Parliament, a huge deal in terms of timing and time in which we must finish this serious business. I don't need to make any more remarks, except I'm asking that we stay at the level of what we agreed on at the Expansive College. I don't think there's much controversy and debate to be conducted today, but here I can't forbid it, you're MPs with rights and obligations. So, I'm opening a debate when it comes to this agreement. Who's answering for a word? Mr. Vinko Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20310	Here's the HDZ-Democracy Club, as I announced at the Expanded College, I suggested these two conclusions. Therefore, the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives insists that the county, or cantonal MUPs and the Federal MUP in the course of police reform share fate with the RS MUP on status and jurisdiction. And, secondly, the House of Representatives has asked the Council of Ministers of BiH to regularly inform this house about the ongoing reform of police forces. I think it's already divided.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20311	I thank my colleague Zorić. Who's next to the word? Mr. Beriz Belkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20312	Here's Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, uh, with a trace of what you said, so we'll honor the extended college agreement and we'll just say a few sentences suitable for this situation. So, the BiH Party will, of course, support, vote today for this agreement for the simple reason that we have already done so in both parliaments and through our representation in the Council of Ministers. Our reasons are absolutely clear and we see that this is still a process leading to the ultimate goal, so BiH gets police able to fight all forms of crime, that BiH police are created by BiH legislation, financed by budget funds, depolitised etc. Not to repeat what you all know. Of course, one of the most important things is that the European Commission accepts such a way as to meet the conditions, so that is why we are committed to supporting this agreement. However, man cannot miss the opportunity not to express some, some kind of dissatisfaction, that is, some sort of suggestion, remarks. We think that rhetoric, expressions used in both the Agreement and the public dialogues, etc., are absolutely wrong, not to contribute to public understanding of what this is about. We use the expressions of the negotiating party, the contractual sides, so it simply creates a kind of atmosphere as if some completely separate from some completely separate structure are agreeing on something, etc. Authorities are called authorities, BiH authorities are called foreign ones. These are the authorities of all peoples and citizens of BiH no matter where they are. So they can't be foreign. 6 But here, er, so we wanted to point out that trying to avoid such a way of approach is simply to accept the model of finding the best solutions for all. So, organising functions in BiH that are acceptable to all and that are most efficient. And I would eventually take the opportunity to send a message to all the structures of the interior ministries in BiH to refrain now from some initiatives that are not quite clear and which, at this point in time, have not chosen the best moment and can produce certain different interpretations. So, to be specific, I mean this initiative by the RS MUP, some talks with cantons, agreements, etc. So these are things that don't help this process because this process practically solves it, and they should all be in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20313	I thank Mr. Belkić. Momčilo Novaković, Potočnik and Bešlagić, then Križanović, then Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20314	The President-in-Office, fellow MPs, having in mind that this agreement is practically the result of a compromise between all the most significant political factors in this country, but also a resolution of compromises between them and representatives of the international community, i.e. in particular the European Commission, not taking into account, therefore, who are domestic and who are party to this agreement, we, or the SDS Club, will support this agreement in the text delivered here at the House. I also want to inform you that we are not prepared to support any conclusion beyond this agreement which in any way explains, treats, explains etc. the text of the agreement because we leave it to those who will work on the implementation of this Agreement in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20315	I thank my colleague Novaković. The word goes on by Mr. Potočnik Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20316	Ladies and gentlemen, I support this agreement for a basic reason because it opens definitely BiH's integration and, of course, the start of negotiations with the EU on BiH's EU accession. But I warn both the EU and NATO as well as all the international community, and especially the people of BiH that there are two potential elements to obstruct the integration process. Point 4 does not question the connection or the connection between the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Points 5 and 8 discuss the five-year implementation of this Agreement. We know that Martins' committee has given a three-year deadline, and I believe it can be done shorter. This is behind the 2006 elections, where the Directorate is due to make its definitive proposal by 30.9.2006. That is why I am ordering the EU, the NAT, the Peace Implementation Council, and thus the BiH integration process, to use its position as external authority for the accelerated integration process and 7 in particular in the adoption of the new BiH Constitution, and I am telling people that in the 2006 elections they will give their vote to which they will either speed up the integration process or extend the agony for the next 5 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20317	I thank my fellow Potočnik. I'm a colleague of Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20318	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, allow me to respect that this is a very important agreement, and I think it is a good suggestion, that someone from the Ministry in charge of this matter should present it in short lines and the Agreement and compare it to what Martinsen may have suggested, with a note of exactly what Potočnik has now drawn attention to, and that is that it is a five-year deadline for me, but I think I would like to hear it from the ministry from the minister, it is too long for us to talk about the efficiency of the reorganization of the Police Force. That's why I thought it would be here because of the importance of this agreement and because of the public that someone would expose us in the short lines of the thesis of this agreement compared to what I'm saying, was proposed by the Martins Commission and with regard to these things that my predecessor was now talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20319	I thank my colleague Bešlagić. I think that this five-year-old politician and all of us in BiH can cut short, that's up to us, and that's why I prayed today that maybe we don't open up all the things we disagree on, but to use time to get along and cut back these five years, and I think the deadline for implementation has been left up to 5 years. Up to 5 years can be a year or 2 months and 3 years. So it's up to us in BiH. The word was sought by the vice-president, Mr. Martin Raguž, and by counterpart Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20320	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen, regardless of any open procedural issues, how and how this agreement came to pass, I think that the House of Representatives should adopt this conclusion even though it is my personal opinion that the House of Representatives should only be declared on the three principles proposed by the European Commission and which the EU is asking us to. Why am I saying this? I'm saying it for two reasons. The first is because all legislative powers will be at BiH level and it is our responsibility for the laws we will pass. And if we don't open a debate today about what these laws will look like, we accept three principles. And in these principles, gentlemen, there can be no difference in the position of this individual level if these powers are transferred at BiH level. It's principles. And if you accept that conclusion, it would be good to accept it, and if you don't, it would be that simple. Because it's a European principle, that there are no double standards. 8 And the other thing that I really think was important here is this intervention that what comes to us comes from the Council of Ministers. Both agreements and principles and conclusions and that we here, under these conditions, verify the Agreement, continue to know how we will deal with the implementation of this Agreement. And who will implement the Agreement and who will be responsible for Parliament on behalf of the Council of Ministers. I think that these are the only issues that need to go beyond this agreement today, and regardless of what we are all aware of the importance of this agreement, this has been a real condition of all conditions, because without this we have no pace, no speed, and this one, I hope that this dimension will actually prevail, not only today, but in the implementation of this agreement we need to know what institutional structure is going to run this agreement and all other agreements because these are European criteria. And I don't think that the conclusions in this regard represent any further lead to the issues of the Agreement, but they explain a certain situation that will be implemented and I mean, I don't see any reason why they can't support themselves either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20321	I thank you, Mr. Jozo Križanović has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that this agreement has only one good side, which is that it is said to open up the possibility of further reform and holds BiH in some condition that it can catch up with some terms on the conclusion of these Stabilisation and Association Agreements. Everything else, for me, is in this agreement and the agreement itself, humiliating and frustrating for me as a representative in this House. First of all, I think he and this Parliament are making up a state-level state institution who, on everyone's move, is ready overnight to intervene to save some processes. And that is why domestic authorities don't actually manage any reforms in BiH. We're on hold when someone's timing us to do a certain job at a certain time. And you see, this is about an agreement that, in my opinion, has a stronger character than the state. Nothing can be intervened, it must not be debated, it must not be complemented, etc. And I don't understand who he's agreeing with and what this House of Representatives is agreeing with today. We are gentlemen, what my colleague Raguž was saying, this is about three key principles on which police reform should be carried out. We have made a declaration about these principles, I don't know, a hundred times so far. I will remind you, let's say the chairman of the Council of Ministers has asked the House to support some sort of non-know, conclusion and declaration that BiH will be at the door of Europe or the EU in 2009. With this agreement, we accept that we will only end up reforming the police in 2010. If we're managing anything, do we have any consistent policy in this thing? Respecting the situation in which we are, so as not to open any further possible negativity of this agreement, that I say nothing more than that in one of the terms of the Agreement there says that police reform will take place in accordance with the BiH Constitution and entities. Again, I don't know, I'd like someone to explain to me what it means and what's been lost for a year and a few days, a year and a half, when the work of the Martins Commission has only taken place on these three principles. What does this reverse mean? Therefore, I say, I could very much list all possible shortcomings and shortcomings in this agreement as well as its purpose but here, respecting the fact that it keeps us at some further pace as well as joining the EU, we will support the Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20323	I thank my colleague Križanović, especially thanks to all of you who support this tone we had at the Extended College. The word has Dr. Živković, so Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20324	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, just a few sentences. In fact, we from the SNSD have said that we will support this agreement and before that we have also been in the position that those currently in the BiH executive wave are obliged to propose a solution and that we from the SNSD will be the ones who will support those solutions, I think if our role is that BiH, which was on the sideline track towards EU integration, is back on track and has accelerated BiH's path towards Europe, what we supported the Agreement, then today, I think our merit is in it. On the other hand, as far as the formal reasons for this agreement are concerned, the agreement is practically in our procedure, Parliament is not a resolution, it is not a law, something to which amendments could be made to suggestions. There are a lot of things in this agreement that we would like to change, however, since the parliaments and the National Assembly and the Federation in the same text also adopted the Council of Ministers, I think that we in the BiH Parliament have no other way out than to adopt such an agreement in the same text. We of SNSD nature will vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20325	I thank Dr. Živković. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20326	Very short. So, some procedural content dilemmas, obviously, can be placed as such but as far as I'm concerned, I will support the agreement. Still, I have a few things to say. First, it would really make sense that this parliamentary assembly, as someone has already said, is determined on these three key principles that would mean the simple position of this body towards police structures reform. That would sort of be enough. But if I don't go into any other details here, some of them have also mentioned it, I'll also look back just with the feeling that we're wasting our time on this provision that says that the period of implementation is 5 years. He's a good chairman, Mr. Špirić noticed that these five years don't have to be five years, but we know us. I'm afraid this is actually a message to do that and as always done in a tea. In some ways, this five-year-old deadline is contradicted by efforts and reasons why we are even making a reform of police structures. 10 But I will conclude that, I remember when 6-7 years ago, when we were doing the same thing at that time in the Parliamentary Assembly, the Law on what is called customs policy, it seems to me at that time, there was no willingness for customs operations to be at the level of the state but was on entities, we lost 3-4 years, and now we are at what was quite logical at the beginning when the law from that area was passed. With that analogy, I'm saying that maybe it was better and more courageous, more bold to say, let's go decisively into reform the way we need it. But since we're still going as we say, step by step, I'm taking the deal, and hopefully these five years, the others I didn't want to comment on, it won't be five years, it's going to be exactly like you chairman said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20327	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. Who's next to the word? Dr Avdić, Miloš Jovanović, Mirko Blagojević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20328	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, honored guests, on behalf of the SPU Club and independent MPs, we also accept the Agreement and feel the need to say that this is a logical move, to welcome the ten-year-old Dejton with the beginning of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations. And I think that was the fundamental goal of both the European Commission and the international community and the BiH institutions. It is certain that much can be said from the aspect of the controversy covered by this agreement but I am assured by the Council for the Implementation of Peace and Interpretation of the European Commission that they are decidently defending the fundamental views of the European Commission. Because there was a lot of controversy in the media and different interpretations and presentations of what was concluded. So, the Peace Implementation Council and the European Commission, in my opinion, are the most responsible entities together with BH institutions to implement such an essential agreement. It is also necessary to highlight these controversys normally, my predecessors have already said, five years is a long period of transition. The police reform cannot be contrary to the entity's constitutions and the BiH Constitution, so how can we expect constitutional reform, etc. So a lot of controversy, but about that, we wouldn't spread and elaborate everything that can be said about this agreement. I just feel the need to say at the end, a period of transition and transfer of powers from entity levels to BiH level, budgetary funding at BiH level, etc., objectively creates a favourable environment for organised crime, corruption, lawlessness, etc. So, directorates for the implementation of this agreement, entity muppets and security institutions at BiH level must objectively lead this process very politically, wisely, so that this empty space that will certainly show, simply be misused and disrupted by the security situation in BiH. So, once again, it is good that for the ten-year-old Dayton, that BiH, which had already had to experience this before and simply start negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20329	I thank Dr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Mirko Blagojević. So, those who support it, it's not an obligation for everyone to discuss it. That's what we agreed on at the College, only if someone had a very serious cut, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20330	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I belong to a group of MPs from the RS, those 12 MPs who today do not have the mandate to vote for this proposal, as we all promised in 2002 to guard the RS and its institutions. However, what happened in the meantime, that I see most of my colleagues from the RS as supporting although they did not have a mandate, although they were given the mandate in 2002 to guard institutions, above all that they would not talk at all about abolishing the RS police and the RS military. Respecting my colleague, Mr Gligorić, who reached an agreement at the College, I will deny him the discussion, but as a Serbian radical, I will be against this proposed solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20331	I thank my colleague Blagojević. Mr Miloš Jovanović picked up the phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20332	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, perhaps we should say a few more things about this agreement, precisely because in the future, or what will expect us to do when we have to apply this agreement. Having experience so far, which we've had, I think as soon as someone makes you do something, as soon as they blackmail you, they push you, it's at least a sign for me right now, that something's not very good and that there's something behind it that's not clear. I have to go home, but I don't see anyone here who can answer some of the things in this agreement, but by respecting what their colleagues have been saying, we're probably all clear on a lot of things. What you might have to say, which is that no police, no matter how reformed she was, will take us to Europe. We all know where the police are headed. The police are going to jail.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20333	But reformed, this one doesn't lead
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20334	I said, no matter how reformed, she's going to jail, and we want to.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20335	Free 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20336	As far as I'm concerned, we want to get out of jail. I would ask you, Mr. Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20337	I'm sorry, just keep going.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20338	To hear the messengers
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20339	With pleasure
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20340	So I repeat, the police are going to jail and we want to get out of jail. So, is this reformed police gonna take us where we want to go? I don't think so. Another thing, I'd like to hear from you colleagues, do you think tomorrow one cop who shot at one, another or a third nation, will you think that he'll better protect the interests of that people, that he'll better protect me from saying both the laws and regulations, or maybe it'll be the other way around. If I were to be sure that tomorrow as a citizen and all of us in BiH with this police reform will be safer, safer, not to steal a car, that we can simply mean every day and night, means anywhere I go, no matter who provides me tomorrow, I would vote for it. But I think with this kind of police reform, I'm going to say this opinion, that we, both as a people and as citizens, will not be safe. With respect, I repeat what my colleagues have been saying, and what has been adopted by the National Assembly of the RS and the Federation of BiH, and I will vote in favour of this agreement but I simply think that in some future time, it will simply be very difficult to apply it when it is based on it, probably, when laws and regulations are passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20341	I thank my colleague Jovanović. The word is Dr. Lagumdžija. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Seada, I'm sorry, I beg your pardon. Dr. Lagumdžija, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20342	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike you, Mr. Chairman, I will not congratulate anyone. I don't think there's any need to congratulate the people who led us to do all this with a minimum year of delay. Normally, I thank those who have been involved in the last few weeks and helped put this together. But it's not a congratulation to them either, but simply thanks to our impotence. 13 We are dissatisfied with the speed of carrying out no more reforms; we are as natural as everyone else, dissatisfied with waiting this long, which has been wasted so much time. We're dissatisfied with opening up the possibility that this will slow down, even this five-year-old deadline, to slow down. Especially a man can be dissatisfied when he hears discussions that go towards it and warn us that this will be difficult to implement but they are willing to vote for this, although they claim to be difficult to implement. But what's there is. What I'm sorry for, and I think this is where the prime minister is missing, to speak to us at a time like this. This is the last point at this stage. I think we're clear, I don't miss him, I don't think we're missing something very much, but he's objectively whether he should be here and the institution he represents is inconclusive that he's not here and he tells us a few words that are convenient. Why am I saying this, Mr. Presiding? Because if this deadline is fulfilled, which many already say is suspicious, that it can be difficult to meet, these five years, if this deadline is met, that means that we ended this at the end of 2010. This house, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers or the chairman of the Council of Ministers three years ago, well, maybe not 3 years, a little less than 3 years ago, adopted a conclusion and we supported it to join the EU 2009. When asked what 2009 was? Because the Alliance led us to 2010 and these will introduce us in 2009. And we have supported the conclusion that we will enter the EU by 2009. Today's agreement is contrary to that conclusion, as in 2011, we qualify on one element to be ready to join the EU. So this is one deadline that shows where we went in these three years. The agreement is in a certain way like the Dayton Agreement, stopped a political war within the ruling coalition and did nothing more. And he's paved the way for us to start Stabilisation and Association negotiations. But, of course, we won't be an opposition to what the state's interest is. And the interest of the state is that at least this little common denominator that the ruling parties managed to put together, that it would not fall apart and that their opposition would not be an alibi for it. So unfortunately this council of ministers and this parliament lost a historic chance of being an accomplice to the country's entry into the EU by the end of this decade. Now it's obvious that none of it has anything to do with it. And we just need to make it clear that the responsibility for this is not on this House, but that it is on whoever rules this House and this Council of Ministers. So, we won't, I repeat again, be an opposition to what is the country's interest. The country's interest at this point is to support such a small, small, small agreement because unless it is supported and it will fall apart and then this little shift will stop. That is why, Mr. Chairman, by respecting what Mr. Novaković said, I will normally closely follow his proposals for conclusions, because they have much more in them than unspeakable. You see, I agree with him that we have a lot of objections to the content of the Agreement, a lot of things we specified from 5 years down to 3 etc. We'd know a lot of things. I understand that any suggestion of conclusions of this kind can only water this. However, I think that we can adopt the conclusion and here I support Mr Zorić, in a certain modified form, this second conclusion of his. In fact, we can have conclusions that speak about our commitment to this council of ministers to inform us about something, just so it doesn't turn out that we just supported the agreement, took off our responsibility and then said we'll see you in five years. We won't be looking at each other in five years, it'll be some other people. 14 Therefore, I propose the conclusion, Mr. Chairman, which is fully in line with what Mr. Novaković was saying, so it does not go into the essence, and this is the House of Representatives and a small modification of this Mr. Zorić, which you have given, in terms of the accuracy and obligation of the Council of Ministers, the House of Representatives obliges the Council of Ministers to inform this House about the course of police force reform, I add, every 3 months with an action plan for implementation in the next quarter. So, if we had an active implementation relationship here that would last at least five years. Beriz reminds me rightly as Corridor Vc. And we have this conclusion about Corridor Vc every three months, so it looks like that's exactly why it's in preparation to pave the way for a third mile that way, and that's probably where it's going to stop, the 3's probably a magic number. So, Mr. Chairman, please, I'll give you this conclusion and I think Mr. Ćeman was inspiring in his discussion, pointing out that if he did, we're going as he says step by step. Since I've been here consulting someone not to make a mistake, I guess the man meant it in English, uh, so let's take it one step at a time. I think it's about time we stopped being a dance school this one, and especially a dance school two steps back, one forward, or we could try at least a tango, two front, one back. This seems to have turned into a counter-thin dance school where constantly when we go two steps back then a friend comes to us like this who came to us a few weeks ago and pushes us one forward. But for nothing, we're two back again. And in order not to constantly go back two, I would beg this working conclusion to be adopted. I'm giving it to you, I don't know if it's necessary, if any of these are going to give out the papers afterwards who voted.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20343	I thank Dr. Lagumdžija. Unfortunately, we are still in the EU leadership phase. When we are in the management phase, these deadlines will probably all be treated differently but we all have to contribute to being in the leadership phase and not in the guidance phase. He asked for the replica as far as I could see, Comrade Zorić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20344	Well, I am, uh, because my colleague Lagumdžija often likes to be sweet and sometimes funny and funny, but when it comes to serious things, I forget because sometimes I want to be funny and funny, too, but I don't know how much I do. However, his proposal for a conclusion is not more precise than mine at all, because he says every three months and I say it regularly. Because what if in those three months three times the Council of Ministers has to address this parliament, then they'll say, we didn't address it a week ago and the conclusion is every three months, we have to wait another one, 50, 70 or 80 days. So, regularly, and can, I allow this conclusion to intervene, and at least 1 time in 3 months. So, uh, you need to be precise if you want to be more specific than this. And every three months for me, it's not more accurate than regular. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20345	I thank my colleague Zorić. Again,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20346	...I agree with Mr Zorić, to say whether, regularly and at least then you continue to leave at 3 months, but necessarily Mr Zorić with a plan of activity in the next quarter. So, just to get in regularly,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20347	I would ask you to agree on a common conclusion that we will plead. I'm afraid we'll come with more conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20348	There's no problem for one simple reason why Mr. Špirić, without that precision regularly means never to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20349	Okay, I get it. Give you the conclusion I'm going to offer Parliament. You'll explain yourself easily to me. So, replica. Just a moment, please, let us conclude the debate on this if possible. My kolegica Sead is waiting, so whoever has the conclusion, we'll make the point. We'll bring this to an end. I thought we'd stick to one conclusion, but here's more conclusions. But that too, please, here's a short Novaković and Sead and we'll bring the debate to an end. Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20350	Well, I would, of course, like to thank Mr Lagumdžija for very closely following this, my discussions, and I would just like him to look at Article 8 of this Agreement and he will probably conclude that since the Directorate has the task of delivering certain views by 30.9th, then there is no point at least until 30.9. every three months informing this Parliament because he has nothing to inform this Parliament by 30.9. So in that sense, I say that the proposal for a conclusion is in my opinion, and that is why it is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20351	Thank you. My colleague, Sead Palavrć, I think we'll bring the debates to an end, please. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20352	I thank you and allow me to say, in my own name, that regardless of the fact that this agreement is late, I am pleased that he is coming and coming from the domestic authorities. So, it comes neither from the OHR nor from the European Commission, but it comes from domestic authorities and anyone who forgets the structure of BiH and forgets its past and forgets that it is a country of three constituent nations and national minorities and that it can only be built by compromise and consensus, I don't think it will do this country any good. So that's my point of view and I'm glad we finally have this agreement ahead of us. On behalf of the Party of Democratic Action Club, I must say that we expected this agreement to have not only principles but more concrete solutions for which the agreement leaves to be the subject of the law in the future. So, there are more integrated proposals from the Defence Reform Commission. However, if the European Commission says that such an agreement is sufficient to attend the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then it is enough for us to vote for this agreement ourselves and support it and the SDA Club will support this agreement but I ask you, without any conclusions. Each of us would have at least 10 conclusions on this agreement and we need the green light to give the signal Brussels expects and finally start the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20353	I thank my colleague Palavrić. Is there anyone else to answer for? Ivo, I'm sorry, I don't have Lozančić, I'm sorry. I didn't see it. Don't blame me, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20354	I'll be very brief. Given that the parties in the negotiations were, as defined, very long negotiated and negotiated and then the sub-mind of certain pressures came to this, a compromise proposal in which I expected that certain points such as 4,5 and 8 would explain little and the minister of security as a participant, whether, before our statement and discussion, and since it was a transitional period of 5 years, and I am skeptical that we will do so in 5 years, I think that the proposal of the Demokršćan Republic of Croatia's HDZ conclusions is in some way precise and complementing this report and I will support it and I think that one and another conclusion gives certain tasks and the Council of Ministers to the Executive Authority and in some ways the conclusion one, precision and complementing the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20355	I'd like to thank my colleague Ivi.. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. I am concluding the debate between the ladies and gentlemen and what is only possible, we will approach the democratic procedure of the statement of conclusion. We will first put to the vote a conclusion that has been agreed on within the College and then we will go further to the statement of the other conclusions. So, the conclusion proposed by the College is that it will have two members, so one, the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, accepts the agreement on the restructuring of police structures in BiH in the text delivered to the House by the Council of Ministers. 17 Prepare to vote. Excuse me, I repeat, prepare for the vote. Vote now, or vote now. Ladies and gentlemen, so 31, 2 against, 1 abstention. I find that we have adopted the Kolegijum's conclusion and thus sent a strong message that we have almost agreed with consensus on the European principles concerning police reconstruction in BiH. We have, what, yes, a decision, not a conclusion. So we're making a decision. It is a decision in which the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives accepts an agreement on the restructuring of police structures in BiH in the text delivered to the House by the Council of Ministers. So it's a decision, we've decided to accept this. We now have two, so Mr. Vink Zorić's conclusions and Dr. Zlatko Lagumdžija's conclusion. We plead, please prepare to vote on the first conclusion. So, are we going to speak individually about Mr. Zorić's conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20356	I accept that the second conclusion says what Mr. Lagumdžija is.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20357	So we're voting, so your first conclusion and your second Dr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20358	And at least within 3 months and with a plan of activity for the next quarter. I accept that.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-10-14-0.u20359	Please, I'm reading the conclusion. Thank you. So we declare the first conclusion you have received from Mr. Vinko Zorić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. For 14, versus 11, nine abstentions. So we don't have a majority, there's a majority of the Federation, there's no RS. We're going for a match. We'll get our jobs in line, and then we'll let Dom know. Let's go, second conclusion, to use the Rules of Procedure, please. We are going to another conclusion of the innovation, so the completed Dr. Lagumdžija and Vink Zorić. 18 Prepare to vote. Vote now. We'll get along later. There's time for people. It's important that we get along with what needs to be done. 18.7 against, six abstentions. We have a Federation, one RS only, no consent. So fate is the same as on this one. We'll biti notified at the next session. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for making a constitutional contribution, and you're all like that. I hereby conclude this session with this consensus that we have reached and sent a message from this House. Thank you very much and expect a session of 25. Session completed at 11:15 p.m.
