ParlaMint-BA_2005-06-30-1.u18813	...committees of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am opening the 61st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, as we have already announced today's session of the House of Representatives should only have two points of the agenda, that is 1. Report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Law on Railways and 2. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission in order to bring the same text of the Foreign Office Act into line. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Who wants to talk? If no one is answering for a word, prepare for a statement on the agenda. Vote now. All right, all right. They know who voted. It's true. - 23 for, no problem, no abstentions. There's a sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted the agenda. Moving to Ad.1. A report by the Joint Commission on the alignment of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Railways Act and you have seen that the Commission is bound by the Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that the Commission has agreed on the text of the Law. 2 I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a statement on the Commission's report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina unanimously with 23 votes in favour and with a sufficient entity majority, without votes against and without abstentions, adopted a report by the Joint Commission on the harmonisation of the Law on the Railways of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is considered to have definitely been passed in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. The appointment of members of the Joint Commission in order to bring the same text of the Foreign Office Act into line. I suggest that Mr Hazim Felić, Mrs Ljiljana Milićević and Mr Vinko Zorić join the commission. Any new suggestions? There are no new proposals. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina voted by a majority of 22 votes in favour, without a vote against and with one abstention, with a sufficient entity majority of elected members of the Joint Commission to agree on the same text of the Foreign Service Act. In this way, I now declare that the 61st session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly has ended. We'll probably see each other twice in July, and August is planned for vacations, so you know that July will be full, so you don't happen to plan your summer vacations in July. So it's a working month and it's possible even more than two sessions to be. They bear in mind the announcement that we need to come to Parliament of the Defence Act, i.e. the completed work by the Defence Reform Commission. Thank you very much. I'll see you in the first half of July, if you please. Live and sound. The session ended with 1800 hours' work.
