ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19836	...amendments, honored guests, opening the 65th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ladies and gentlemen, our regular guests and representatives of international organisations who have expressed interest in monitoring the work of this session have been invited to attend the session. I welcome all present messengers and guests. I also welcome the representatives of the public information funds following the course of today's session. According to the service report, I find that there are 34 MPs, 21 from the Federation and 13 from the RS, which means we have a quorum for full-time and full-fledged decision-making. Justice for the absence was announced today by Dr Abdulah Nakaš, Dr Zlatko Lagumdžija, Muhamed Altić, Senija Kapetanović and Dr Nijaz Duraković. To those who have not announced justice, I expect their presence during this session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you've been invited to this session to the agenda that you have on your desks. As is our continuing practice, just before the session we held a tight College, a College in an extended composition and simply reached agreement that there is no requirement to extend the agenda for today's session. But yesterday we received from MP Milorad Živković, the motion for a resolution on strategic commitments in the BiH defence system. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House, Article 121(2), I am obliged to present to the vote the first proposal whether the proposed resolution will be previously discussed in the committee responsible. So I suggest we settle this as a previous question, i.e. to make a statement about this proposal. You know, if the proposal is not adopted, the proposed resolution is automatically included in the agenda of this session. So, before I open a debate on the agenda, I would like to address this problem as a previous issue, and therefore I urge you to state by voting who it is that the proposed Rrezolucija on Strategic Definitions in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Defence System, MPs of Dr Milorad Živković, is going to the competent commission first to consider. Get ready, please, before the vote, for everyone to insert these verification cards so that we can make a vote without repeating, so you're all registering that you're present. Prepare to vote. 2 Vote now. Who is it that Dr. Milorad's resolution, please, is back again, so who's for Dr. Milorad Živković's resolution to go to the competent commission first for consideration? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, out of 29 for, 1 against, no abstentions. I therefore find that the motion for a resolution on strategic definitions in the defence system is going to the competent commission to consider Dr Milorad Živković. The word was requested by Dr. Živković, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19837	I am aware of the fact that this resolution is quite extensive and comprehensive and besides not having much to add to it, and I voted to go to the committee but I would ask this home, to conclude that the Defence Act is already coming to the next session, that the committee responsible for discussing this resolution and doing so at its first session. So, the point is, before the Defense Act, I would ask this house to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19838	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this makes sense so long as the Law on Defence is a complex law and better complete the resolution before the debate on this law, no matter what the outcome of the commission will be, our resolution here, positive or negative. It would be good if that resolution didn't burden the debate on the law. I think we can support this conclusion that the committee in charge, so until the next session, consider this resolution and take its view. I'm calling you, so it doesn't work, it doesn't work. I ask you, then, that the charts be made known to this conclusion, that we do not open the debate. Please, just a little patience, we'll sort it out. So, I urge you ladies and gentlemen to vote on this conclusion that the committee responsible before discussing the law, this resolution is under consideration. Prepare to vote. Vote now. Here we go, it's okay, just a little bit, take it easy. The conclusion has been accepted. So 23 for, versus 3.1 abstention. I find this conclusion accepted. That's how we solved this previous issue. Thank you for understanding, for making an effective decision. We're moving on to the debate on the proposed agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given the agenda for this session. There were no requests for an extension of the agenda. 3 I call the hearing. Mr. Potočnik called for a debate, so Mr. Ćeman, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19839	Hello. I am making a proposal for a conclusion, and the conclusion this parliament would draw is that it obliges the Council of Ministers to resolve the problem, as soon as possible, in contact with the U.S. government. "Algerian groups". The explanation, the Council of Europe adopted a resolution requiring all Member States to proceed through bilateral negotiations with the release and return of all citizens or former residents and, if there is evidence or suspicion of their guilt, to judge in their own countries, or freedoms if there is no basis for trial. This attitude towards citizens is contrary to all conventions on the protection of human rights, signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina. The conclusion, then, is that the government, or the Council of Ministers, resolves it as soon as possible in contact with the United States.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19840	I beg you, you must suggest it as a part of the agenda so tell us what point it is and deliver it to us in writing. Home will come out. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19841	Well, then as a part of the agenda, I suggest and in writing you have.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19842	What part of the agenda? The last one?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19843	Last 15.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19844	Okay. Just deliver it in writing. Mr. Ćeman, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19845	Mr. Chairman, co-legislators and colleagues, together with my colleague Belkić, I proposed and was included in the draft agenda, item 5 of the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act, under Article 105. We have taken into account the possible understanding of this proposal and in the context of the responsibility of the Management Board, i.e. the Directorate for indirect taxation, although it is always not clear to the end what can be entered into the jurisdiction of this body. But given the realistic assessment that there really is a need to carry out preventions on this bill, and in subsequent consultations, however, the belief that perhaps this issue should be given by the authority that I mentioned, so the Management Board. In the name of the promoter, so together with counterpart Belkić, we suggest that instead of Article 105 today, it is decided that the proposal for this law goes in accordance with Article 104. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19846	So, you're like the promoters looking for a change,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19847	Change of regime, let me say the debate on this law, that's one thing. And, secondly, on my own behalf alone, I have also suggested and I see that there is no draft agenda, a proposal for amendments, or a proposal to supplement the Transport Tax Act, also under Article 105. I had a dilemma of this kind that I'm now pointing to, but given my contacts with businessmen who really think it's necessary to supplement the law in that segment that I suggested, and the following logic, I suggest about this proposal that's not included in the agenda, one, to be included in the agenda today. Also, I'm changing my proposal instead of Article 105 to go by Rule 104. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19848	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. I'm just asking him, we had this second request, relating to article 105 at the L.A. and the Extended College, since we have and so it's about article 105, since we intend to schedule a session for the 28th, and so we tried to get the mood that everything that's not too urgent, we leave for 28. But if the change is therefore, if the change is now a procedure, then I ask you only in writing to classify it as only a matter of procedure in accordance with Article 104, but here I am asking you, so I understand one and another remark, but only this one in writing, for a stenogram. There's a colleague named Milićević, please come in. And I'm just asking you to sign up for keyboards and techniques, so we don't repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19849	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I actually signed up after Mr. Potočnik. In his proposal, there was one false allegation. He cannot order the Council of Europe with his own document. You see, these documents aren't binding, for members. It adopted this and in the Member States whether it will respect it, so you do not have that commanding position. So in that sense, if he suggests a conclusion, he can't impose it. Secondly, Mr. Ćeman what he suggested, it's actually in accordance with the law. Therefore, the opinion of the Council of Ministers or the Management Board cannot be disputed. But you suggest this is going to this session, or 28. I was here yesterday, finance minister Mrs. Marić, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will be away until 28th in America. Therefore, we will not be able to win Mr. Ćeman, neither will we, on the Commission, have asked me to keep this in mind for the Commission's sake, that there will be no people, so it will be this in America, that we can't put it on the agenda, we won't have an opinion, information from the first hand, so please comply with these requirements to take care of it. Thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19850	Thank you. A colleague of Ćeman's called, and a Potočnik called.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19851	So, through the amended proposal, if it is accepted and I hope it will, the procedure under Article 104 and for one and for the second proposal that I was talking about, it goes on to say first, the Constitutional and Legal Committee on Constitutional Fundamentals and, of course, within half the deadline, so we will not enter into this time to say the situation, I suppose that is not why it is not accepted today. I am sorry, in fact, that it will not be decided today, and I have, at a little risk, suggested as I suggested, but in every case, I pray that what is possible before in procedures and that it is accepted because there is no practical reason to reject it, for real reasons, but when we discuss the law in a metric.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19852	Thank you. A kolega Potočnik, a small replica. All I'm asking is that we avoid replicas, just to clarify.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19853	kolegica Milićević was right, could not order or order, it was misspelled, it passed the resolution, but of all 25 EU countries has already made those contacts. So that's a recommendation. You are right, so it is not binding or binding, but it is a proposal for this House to act in the spirit of European standards and rights and human rights conventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19854	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore conclude the debate on the agenda, and I ask you, therefore, first of all, to declare that the request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman remains the same point under 5 and Mr Beriza Belkić to discuss the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act under emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. So, please prepare for the vote. Who's in favor of accepting this proposal? So, with 27 for, against no one, one abstention. I find that this proposal has been accepted and that this point remains on regular number 5, with the procedure of Article 104 rather than 105. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we immediately plead and that the point be moved to the agenda and that point 7 be, Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Product and Service Tax, MPs of Mr Mirsad Ćeman, in accordance with also point 104. Rules of Procedure. Prepare to vote. Six vote now. So 27, 3 against, 2 abstentions. I also find that this item of the agenda has been adopted. And finally, we have a conclusion regarding the Algerian group, Mr. Potočnik. I suggest that it be the last item of the agenda. You heard, get ready to vote. Vote now. For 23.4 against, 7 abstentions. I find that it has a majority and an entity majority, that this is the final point of the agenda. We have adopted the following agenda, 1 / 1 The adoption of the minutes from the 63rd and 64th session of the House of Representatives, 2nd. Parliamentary Questions and Answers, 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in BiH under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 4. The request of the Council of Ministers of BiH for consideration of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Products and Services by Emergency Procedure pursuant to Article 105. Rules of Procedure, 5. The request of MEPs Mirsad Ćeman and Beriz Belkić to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 6. Request by Ambassador Mirsad Ćeman to consider the Law on the Completion of the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Imprisonment, 8 / 8 A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Election Law following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, 9. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on a proposal for a Law on the Maternity of Emmigrants of BiH, 10. Commission Report to the College on Efforts to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education, Proposer of Law, Momčilo Novaković, 11. Report by the Commission to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission's report on the SDP's initiative to form a committee of the Commission for the adoption of the text of the BiH State Anthem, 12. Report by the Commission to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as requested by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, 13. Annual posters on security intelligence policy, 14. Adhoc's report on the selection of members of the Election Commission of BiH, on the procedure of proposing members of the Election Commission of the Serb and Bosniak people, according to the conclusion of the House of 64th session held on 31.8.2005, 7 15. Resolution on the relationship between BiH institutions under the mandate of the appointment of the new High Representative of the international community, proposed by MPs Zlatko Lagumdžija and Joza Križanović, 16. The Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, d) the Treaty between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance and prevention of tax obligations in respect of income tax, g) the Agreement between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (f) the Treaty between BiH and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax obligations relating to income tax, (g) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Council of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Affairs, (h) the Agreement on Legal Cooperation between the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia's Security and the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia Agreement on the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia Agreement on the Treaty on Civility and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Bosnia and the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Treaty on the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia Agreement with the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic The conclusion of Mr. Potočnik's MPs, related to the Algerian group. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a adopted agenda. Moving to the first item of the agenda, that's ad.1. The adoption of the minutes from 63rd and 64th session of the House of Representatives you received the minutes from both sessions. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Lozančić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19855	Mr. Chairman,... the minutes of the 63rd session, I have one intervention related to the presence of MPs, so says they were not present names, Nakaš Muhamed, Suljkanović, Ivo Lozančić, should stand at least when I am on the grounds, justifiably absent, on an official trip in front of the BiH Parliament. It's just that we're not present, there's no explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19856	Any other objections? Mr. Belkić, please. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19857	I tell you the truth, I'm not quite sure if I'm right, but here's a suggestion, that on page 4 where the conclusions are this, and the reasoning of the conclusions, it's not clear in one place that the conclusion of the number 4 of the Zlatko Lagumdžija is adopted, and right below is that no conclusion of the number four was adopted. So you need to see this one, whether it's the same conclusion or if there are other conclusions. I couldn't really determine so I could check it out. I'm not entirely sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19858	Thank you. Is anyone still picking up the word? Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest we adopt both conclusions along with this correction that my colleague Lozančić said and with the check Mr Belkić spoke of. Prepare to vote. We're voting, and there's, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I haven't seen a colleague of Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19859	...we're talking about the conclusion, I'm now at the 64th session since we're both considering it, aren't we? It's technically natural, of course, but I remember, when there was a discussion on the amendment to the proposal of the Constitution, it was point 13 of the 64th session and I also discussed it and it wasn't mentioned. Of course, it's technical, but it needs to be established in the record.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19860	I therefore find it necessary to record that another colleague of Ćeman took part in the debate, that the error be corrected and, therefore, if these are all remarks, we are voting now. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find that with 31 votes for, against, there were no abstentions, we accepted the minutes from 63rd and 64th sessions with these remarks that can be accepted from colleagues and the suggestion of colleagues Belkić. Moving to the second item of the agenda, that's Ad2. MPs' questions and answers to questions until this session were received by MPs Jelina Đurković, Ivo Lozančić, Selim Bešlagić, Seada Palavrić, Ruža Sopta, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Ljiljana Milićević, Ivo Lozančić and Ahmed Huskić. I call on my colleagues if they need to comment on the answers they've received on questions. Then you can't comment, then it's my fault. Look at the materials, maybe you don't get to read it, there's a lot of work. I understand that absolutely and I don't read it all. Is there, 9 Doctor Azra Hadžiahmetović, asked for the word so Ljiljana Milićević. Just please log in to my keyboard, it's easier to follow.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19861	I thank the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, and I will remind you that my question was about police reform, or police reform, as far as it came and an initiative was launched to invite representatives of parliamentary majority parties and debates on issues related to this reform. Since we all know how it ended, now I've got a question that's been tracked down I mean timed since three months ago and we know how it ended a few days ago. This way, I am initiating an initiative for the Council of Ministers to report to us at the first next session of the House of Representatives on the consequences of any preparations for the resolution of the outcome of the reforms in BiH, or whatever else. This is especially in the context of approaching European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19862	Thank you. My kolegica Milićević.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19863	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I want to comment on the answer I received from the Council of Ministers on the question asked on 19 July. The question was, in fact, whether we could get a report from the Council of Ministers, it was a report by the European Committee for the Prevention of Tortrum and Inhumane Behavior. He's referring to BiH. The report is slightly longer, and the essence of whether we can get that report is written and says, on the delivery of the CPT reports to MPs of Parliament's House of Representatives, we would like to inform you that the CPT report after the adoption of the Council of Ministers 18.3. is available on the e-mail pages of the Council of Europe in English. The report, in English, appeared in this address of the Council of Europe when it came to BiH and now the Council of Ministers says, they adopted it, and now we can find it in the English language of the Council of Europe. I mean, on their page. I don't really have words, but fortunately I repeat the question to them, and I asked them when we're going to name a man, this committee that chases us from the Council of Europe that I have to use such a term for 3 years, why BiH doesn't appoint a member in that committee, we have the right, we need to call a competition, we need a candidate prairie to choose a member and we have gentlemen, I have to tell you that you can find a report on torture and inhumane conduct in English, since the Council of Ministers adopted him on the World of Europe page. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19864	Word asked for fellow Zorić. I have, please, I said use your keyboard, use your technique because it's hard to track my technique and when you raise your hand. So, on the keyboard, I have a registered colleague named Zorić, so you don't mind if I don't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19865	I have a question to ask.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19866	Ask a question, please, everyone else report through technique.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19867	Like this,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19868	Is there anyone else to be, Vinko, you won't be mad. But please, I asked who was for the comments. Use technique, that applies to you. She has Selim Bešlagić. Selim Bešlagić wants to comment?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19869	No comment, I'll ask the question, but that's why I asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19870	Comrade Lozančić, but please, I'm asking you to use technique, we can't do a little technique on our hands.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19871	I signed up, probably my name, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19872	I've got you now, Ivo Lozančić, here you are.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19873	But I must commend the Council of Ministers that, in a quick and high-quality manner, they answered both of my questions earlier. The first question related to the demining strategy, the cleaning of mines in space, and it's really quite a good answer, with no reviews of donor funds and total funds donated, deminings until 2004. Also in the conclusions of this issue, we cannot be too optimistic that by 2009, priority locations will be eliminated because the funds are significantly reduced and in this review that is detailed, again we do not have from which resources, whether budget, whether donation, whether or not we will provide from others for the next 4 future because they are important and peripheral places that will need to be demined. It says here that it will take a few decades. For decades, which was an assumption, but if the indicators were to have indicators of the funds donated from '98 to 2004 and the plan of 11 donations and the budget for the next one, we would have to cut those deadlines and demining as much space as possible. And the second question, I also got the answer that this, part is satisfying. But my opening question was that we were raising electricity production to a level from the '90s. But we went and spent almost on a level from the '90s. So that's why my question followed about the electricity strategy, that if we had a strategy now only in 2007 and we wouldn't have further produced, then we would have already come to a position in 2006 or to be importers or to have reductions, since we are expected to strengthen businesses, or sometimes we have large consumers who are partly devastated and not working. If they were working too, they'd be way out of my '90s consumption. then we'd be in trouble because we'd be in a reduction and so I think the Council of Ministers remains to try to respond to the strategy being done by half next year.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19874	Thank you. Jelina Đurković has a comment, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19875	As Mr. Chairman commented, it turns out I'm a lazy woman man who doesn't read materials. I've been through it, it's not in my materials. I asked my colleagues to see if they didn't have it, if they didn't have the answer to my name, they didn't have it. Now, I ask that when I get that answer, I reserve the right to comment on it, then which session I get it at. That's it. I really didn't get the answer. And I don't know what question, there's a few of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19876	Thank you. I didn't think you were lazy at all, but I don't think it's as easy to read as it happens to me, but here you are right now thinking about the worst. I don't think so, but I'm asking the secretary who informs me to inform you now. And I know that MPs are buried in materials, they get them concesively and that this can be done what I warned them about. Whoever's lazy, who's not, it's for review, and it's not for me. No, my colleague can't be people at the beginning.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19877	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I don't usually go out for these kinds of questions because mistakes can really happen because we work at a terrible pace, but I have to say that I have been reported to Mrs Jelina Đurković to answer the parliamentary question 12.9.2005, and the question is: If all citizens are on the territory of the Federation of BiH in the time since '91. By the year '95, amnested by the Law on Amnesty of the Federation of BiH, how can stolen citizens make fair compensation and whom can they turn to for help? We have a very short response from the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry, if there's been a mistake, I'll check it out myself. It has been fully recorded with me that nine MPs have received answers to parliamentary questions. I work on that material. I'm sorry if there's been a mistake. Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19878	Thank you, Branka. You see how the services work perfectly, you don't just have to be angry, it's not the goal of anyone being human, Bog forbid. A colleague Avdić asked to comment or a new question?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19879	It's a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19880	Aonda goes to counterpart Zorić, so the next one is to register. Dr. Avdić Sead and the next.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19881	I have two questions to the Council of Ministers, of course, firstly when the Council of Ministers and responsible government institutions will allow real energy consumers to buy this energy at affordable prices. No excise duty, no sales taxes? I asked the same question last year, and the argument of the competent authorities was that lush oil was used for motor vehicles. So, to commit abuse. Given that the control of the use of flimsy oil is in the power of the executive authorities, I hope that this reason is removed and that real users will stop punishing themselves with high prices instead of punishing those who commit abuse. The second question is also to the Council of Ministers, will the Council of Ministers also help the participation of the Bosniak team at the World Cup and reward the winning of gold and silver medals at the World Games and Mediterranean Games? If there will be no understanding for this way of representing BiH in the world, I would also ask that the Council of Ministers inform the Bosniak Union so that they know they do not have the support of the country they represent.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19882	I thank my colleague Zorić. Dr. Avdić Sead came forward, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19883	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is also a parliamentary question in the form of a request. So I ask the Council of Ministers to offer the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives a strategy to build the Vc road corridor or at least a feasibility study from Budapest to the Adriatic Sea. A special segment is the route of the Road Corridor Vc, which the ministry's expert group has already decided and presented to the public and the Council of Ministers, I have information that has not yet adopted, the report. Since there are unclear credentials of the optimization of the route and its southern accession in Pločav, we already have in the public demand through written declarations that track 13 is being reviewed and adopted by the top BiH authorities, given that it is of first-class state interest in the development aspect, not only of technical, construction and economic aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19884	Thank you very much, Mr. Avdić. The word is Mr. Jozo Križanović, please. Let's get ready for Mr. Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19885	My question is addressed to the BiH Prosecutor's Office in which I ask that when the BiH Prosecutor's Office delivers information or answers to the following questions. How many lawsuits have been filed for the crimes of money laundering, tax evasion and customs fraud, how many of these lawsuits have been prosecuted, how much has been decided on the basis of the return of property and money to the Budget of BiH, and how real is the return of money and property of BiH? Please cover the period since the establishment of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19886	Thank you very much. Mr. Moranjkić came forward for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19887	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is normal, to the Council of Ministers and the ministries that are in place and to which this applies. Who in this country is obliged and obliged to protect and protect the citizens of this country from brutal, verbal and physical attacks by hooligans, thugs and criminals who are increasingly in this country? Obviously and truly, it's not the police today, obviously, and it's not really the judiciary and the prosecution, and I don't know why I'm referring to this question. I went to the polls, and they told me that they had their hands tied under the supposed signs, and they kept their jobs because they lost him with adequate intervention. And by begging and pardoning, they don't achieve it, which is obvious both at every step and at every moment in this country and even say that, to think about how to protect themselves from. I have visited and told me in the judiciary that the intensities and instructions given to them by responsible certain ministries to avoid prison sentences and that if they have to be judged as well as monetary ones to be as little as possible, better said minimum for crimes that are at the border of criminal offences, they get a maximum of 1 to 3 days in prison. So with these two cases, they're obviously stimulated and supported by hooligans and thugs and criminals who take a little dank every day in this country. Now I am publicly asking both this Parliament and myself whether there is room for someone to publicly invite the citizens of this country to self-organize and self-defense because both the official authorities in this country acknowledge themselves cannot protect themselves. Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19888	Thank you. Word still has a colleague, Ćeman.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19889	So I have two or three questions. The first is, we are, or BiH is in the process of reforming the judiciary. Courts of all levels in BiH are literally buried in cases and citizens are increasingly unhappy with the dispute-solving slowdown. Decisions of course neither comment nor comment, it is a matter of the Court under the law to decide. Through the additional judge's institute, efforts seem to fix the situation. In fact, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has recently appointed additional judges in some municipal courts and some other high-level courts. Here I have an official messenger where they are mentioned or where some of these decisions have been published. My question to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and the BiH Ministry of Justice is whether, through an additional judge's institute, it can further affect the urgency in resolving disputes or cases in courts, then whether the existing concept of an additional judge should be changed, e.g. Instead of now receiving an additional judge, they receive a kind of regular working relationship, to change the concept, for example. the concept of contracting an execution per case with course, compensation because the current concept does not give as much as I know the legal effects? Not rarely do people talk, I don't know how else, but I do, too, with a request to speed up the procedure. The courts, anyone's call, I know they now understand more as a kind of pressure than an appeal to work faster. That's why it seems to me that a possible change in the concept of an additional judge through a non-reception, so to speak, under quotes, in a working relationship to a certain time of the judge, but through a settlement by case, some kind of norm, in my court may be a more effective solution. For this reason, let my question be at the same time an initiative for a possible amendment to the relevant laws in the first sense and if there is no positive answer, then I will write down proposals of the law in this sense. Of course, I'm looking for a written answer and possibly an oral one, but here I see there are no representatives or the Ministry of Justice. The second question is, when will it definitely be signed or come to ratification in this Parliament of the Agreement, i.e. the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on Property Legal Relations, which are currently not resolved items and on the way, why don't we, I ask for at least myself, copy of the text of this import prepared by now? So why not get MPs not only in this case but also in other cases informably, at least because of those versions that have been agreed by the moment. And the third question, I didn't want to do it in the part where we were commenting on the answers, because, of course, I, like others, asked some questions that I didn't get answers to, so the question is, when I'm going to get an addition to the questions that are related to the status, or the questions of the citizens gathered within the UGOR Association, questions relating to the recognition of the driving licenses of our citizens in Italy, etc.? Thank you very much. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19890	I thank my colleague, Ćeman. The word was asked for by Mr. Bešlagić Selim.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19891	Dear Presidency, dear colleagues, I have two questions. Actually, this is a question of repetition, because I got an answer that I'm not happy with and it's about the next question. When can it be expected to begin with the work of the Department of Youth, at the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs, which will be his description of the jobs and what will be the strategy of filling the department with educated and capable personnel? So, when will the constitutional session of the Commission on Co-ordination and Youth Affairs be held, who is responsible for the fact that 9 months of the Commission's creation decision is still not in place until the problems of young people are constantly growing in this country? There's an explanation in the next one. Ciphilic Minister Safet Halilović announced as early as 2003 that the Malde Department would start working in that year and the secretary of the ministry Zlatko Horvat said the same thesis in the spring of this year. Unfortunately, until today, the department has not begun. The second question I refer to the BiH State Veterinary Office, is there an initiative for the adoption of animal protection laws at the state level, and has the competent authority joined the draft of this law? The explanation is that lately we have witnessed a growing number of diseases, whose animal transporters are still no state-level law that would regulate this area and prevent negative consequences.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19892	Thank you. The word was asked for by colleague Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19893	Thank you. I have a very short question, and it concerns the Regulatory Agency for Communications. I ask them why the citizens of Canton of Sarajevo will have lower prices of telephone services than the citizens of other cantons, which use the services of a fixed network of BH telecoms? Thus, this conclusion comes from the letter provided by BH Line to users of its services with an account for the 8th month 2005. I have this letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19894	Thank you. Word has a colleague, Dušanka Majkić, to ask a parliamentary question. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19895	I refer the question to the Council of Ministers, and it says so. Article 19. The budget of the BiH institution The official messenger, number 23/04, is prescribed a way of using the budget funds of the reserve, where the interdepartmental one states that these funds are used for grants to non-profit organisations and individuals by special decisions of the Council of Ministers concerning the proposal of the miniatures and in line with the decision on the basic criteria for the award of grand support to non-profit organisations and individuals. My question is, how much was used for this purpose in 2004? What NGOs and individuals have received funds for which projects and in what height and what are the basic criteria for the grant of grants to support non-profit organisations and individuals? I'd like an answer in writing, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19896	Thank you. To ask a parliamentary question the word has Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19897	And my question, of course, is for the Council of Ministers and it concerns the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. In fact, we adopted the Public Procurement Act here last year, and that was supposed to mean that we accelerated the public procurement process, reduced the suspicions of selecting those who offer services. But I have a lot of knowledge that we've slowed it down a lot, and we've agreed since this one, we've voted this law, a lot of those that offer services through the contest, because of the slow choice, and then because of the lack of responsibility for the choice, they stand and don't solve it, they don't get these jobs, so we have a slow solution and slow choice. This is not only the case in our country, it is also in neighbouring countries, so Croatia adopted this law in 2000 and had similar problems but there are also mechanisms in which to regulate and implement the law. We are much more pronounced, i.e. the law has not been implemented at all, so we have that the funds of public enterprises are intended for the purchase of equipment for installation or reconstruction or modernization of certain of these plants are completely blocked so that we have up to 100 million KM to wait for the deblockation for a long time, waiting for the selection, waiting for the funds to be invested. My question for the Council of Ministers is that it takes the removal of these blockades or that it fully implements the Public Procurement Act? This question could have been answered orally, since it wasn't particularly complex or demanding, but since there's no one there, then I'll wait for the written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19898	I thank my colleague Lozančić. I haven't been reported yet. Is anyone still answering for word? Professor Kunić, I'm sorry I don't have any, is there anyone else to answer for? Here you go. Something's wrong, I'm sorry. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19899	I've been asking the question I've asked four or five times. So last time, at the last meeting of the House of Representatives, I asked the Kolegijum to intervene so I could have a question. I'm using this opportunity to ask the College if he's taken any steps to get me an answer to the parliamentary question. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19900	Yeah, I have to, if I can answer that right now. You must understand that the College does not have any mechanisms to order anyone to answer. You know that we have often debated MPs' questions, how much does this MP's hour make sense at all, but since no one's giving up, unfortunately, we're really not able to. What Dr. Kunić asked us to do, we forwarded and asked for an answer, an emergency on the parliamentary issue. Unfortunately, we didn't get it either, but here, I'm not running away from sending an emergency to the same address again. Mr. Belkić asked for it, I'm sorry, Professor Kunić, but it really is. You're not the only one who didn't get the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19901	If the questions were over, I would just remind myself that we are in some way, Miss Azra Hadžiahmetović, this, however, in the context of a comment on the answers, launched one initiative, this, let's see what her fate is, because we are, or are asked to include one item of the agenda for the results at the next session,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19902	Okay, we get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19903	After the decision of the National Assembly of the RS, regarding police reform.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19904	Thank you. There are no more reported to the MPs' questions. Now, of course, we can, as part of what counterpart Belkić was talking about. We have received the question, therefore, and the comments of Dr Azra Hadžiahmetović's initiative, and we must, of course, ask Branka how we can go out in business, since these are parliamentary issues, so the Rules of Procedure say that when initiatives are concerned that the College is making a decision. I can only promise to play an active role, the College, that it will decide to comply with what counterpart Hadžiahmetović asked for. So, I don't know if it's satisfying, so it's business. Yeah, here's what I was looking for in the Rules of Procedure. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19905	I understand that business is so, of course, satisfying me personally but I appreciate that it could also be an initiative of the House of Representatives. For the simple reason why, I will remind you, I have asked that this House be addressed and chaired by the Council of Ministers, and I have subsequently added the High Representative of the international community, given that the consequences of BiH as the only country that has no contractual relations with the EU, and that it will deal with it in the next period and I think it would be good that this Parliament does not behave as a party, a huge thing has happened in BiH, the consequences and how it will follow, and I appreciate that it would be good to have us here in communication with the Council of Ministers and possibly the Office of the High Representative, or Mr Ešdaun, see what are the options, or what consequences we can expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19906	I thank my colleague Hadžiahmetović. I agree, but this initiative could have been like the last item of the agenda, I wouldn't mind, but since we've adopted the agenda and these are the answers, so we'll do business. I understand the need, the urgency, nothing is disputed but we have to do business getting them out of this. So it's not a part of the agenda, and here's a colleague that's going to show up about this initiative as well as everything else. Ladies and gentlemen, we've concluded the second item of the agenda and we're moving to the third item of the agenda, which is Ad.3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises in BiH under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. The Rules of Procedure of the Bill were delivered to the House on 26 August this year. You've won the bill. You have seen that it is the adoption of a law declared on a provisional basis by the High Representative, so the motioner has requested an emergency procedure. I am opening a debate against the motion. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Let's make a statement. So, please prepare to plead. Vote now. So, who's in favour of accepting the Council of Ministers' initiative to discuss it under Article 105? So I figure with 22 votes for, against six abstentions there wasn't. So they accepted the Council of Ministers' initiative. Is there an entity majority to look at, just a little bit. Please return the vote, no RS. So this is about confirming the High Representative's law. I'm in favour of this law, so it has my consent, so I have to have consent if there's no entity majority. So there's no voting, so there's no voting again? There isn't. Okay, so we're, uh, informed the House that we've reached an agreement in the College. 19 Therefore, the adopted procedure of Article 105. Please, so now I'm opening a debate on the essence. So, who is it, so I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. So, please, let us now state who is in favour of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises of BiH being adopted by an urgent procedure? Prepare to vote. Who's in? So 28 for, versus 2, 2 abstentions. So I realize that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Excises of BiH has been adopted, of course, in office but has been imposed by the High Representative and it is Parliament's obligation to confirm the law. Moving to the fourth point, that's Add.4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Transport of Products and Services under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure the same situation as in the previous point. Therefore, the procedure for the adoption of the Law on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Products and Services, which was declared on a given basis by the High Representative, is required. I'm opening a debate. Who's calling for a Reich? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. So, ladies and gentlemen, please state who is in favour of accepting Article 105's procedure for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Product and Services Taxation? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, wa 25, 6 abstentions, 6 v, 1 abstention. So 23 from the Federation, 2 from RS, we don't have most of the entity. So since it's a law that's in the procedure by which we're acting in practice and it needs to be adopted, I'm in agreement. So we have consent in the College. So we inform the House that we have consent in the College. So let's go, I'm opening a debate about the essence of the law. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19907	So since this law as well as the previous law, essentially do not have the position of the Governing Board for indirect taxation and we know that this is a problem that cannot, the laws cannot be adopted without this, without the position of the Administrative 20 Taxation Board, for this reason, I am against such laws and the adoption of such laws in this way, regardless of this, the position of the High Representative because he violated the law that we have adopted here and for which OHR advocated, when we adopt and based on who the OHR sent us what we were able to read here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19908	Thank you very much, Mr. Novaković. The President of the House of Representatives, Mr Špirić, called for the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19909	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, just for clarification. In order for anyone to be able to change this law, and I suppose it is not ideal, and that, in general, the Direct Taxation Directorate and the Management Board may give their suggestions and that they may influence the amendment of the law, according to their view, this Parliament must verify this law. So for these reasons alone, I give consent to the College and I vote for it and I respect all those who disagree with any part of the law, to launch an initiative, but as of today, to amend that law. Just so we don't keep him blocked and we don't keep the I.D.'s blocked. It doesn't mean anything that they may have objections and the law is in an airless space. So, just for those reasons, and here, for these reasons, I've given my consent and I'm going to vote for that law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19910	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else hanging on to the word?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19911	If no one calls, we close the debate. I invite you to make a statement about the law. Vote now. So it's 25, 4 against, 3 abstentions. We don't have a majority from the RS. What does that mean now, I'm in agreement,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19912	Chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19913	Yes, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19914	My voice was not accepted, I voted, not at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19915	Are you asking for a re-election? 21
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19916	So I suggest it happens again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19917	Please, I urge the MPs to repeat the vote at Dušanka Majkić's request. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So we haven't fixed anything. So 26 for, 4 against, 3 abstentions, 3 from the RS. We don't have most of the RS. So we have to get back to college. It's me, how are the baldies? So let's inform the House that we've reached an agreement. And, in this way, is there any further. We therefore believe that it has been adopted means the Law on the Completion of the BiH Customs Policy Act, which is, no, no, therefore, not the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Transport of Products and Services, which was in office because it was imposed by the High Representative. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the debate on the fourth item of the agenda. And we're going to the fifth item of the agenda, that's Ad.5. The request of MEPs Mirsad Ćeman and Beriz Belkić to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Customs Policy Act under an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 105. Rules of Procedure, actually 104. Rules of Procedure, please, so it's just the procedure. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering your question? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please plead. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, for 29, against 1, there are no abstentions. We have an entity and a total majority. So we find that this proposal has been accepted, therefore, that, at the proposal of Mirsad Ćeman and Beriz Belkić, the draft law on the double of the BiH Customs Policy Act is being considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. That concludes the debate on the fifth point. We move to six points of the agenda, that's Ad.6. The request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman that the draft law supplementing the Tax on Transport of Products and Services Act be considered by an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a hearing with the Rules of Procedure. Is anyone answering for a word? He's not answering. I'm closing the debate. 22 I call upon my colleagues to prepare for the vote. Vote now. So, I find that, with 32 votes for, without prejudice, without the eager, we have therefore adopted the request of MEP Mirsad Ćeman to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the marketing of products and services in accordance with procedure 104. The rules of procedure of our home. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Add.7. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions, following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. On 23 August this year, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers submitted the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions with a request to be considered in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. You've won the bill. It is therefore a request for an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. I'm opening a debate on the motion. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. I invite you ladies and gentlemen to plead with me on the request of the Council of Ministers. Vote now. So, for 28, 1 versus, 1 abstention. I find that we have accepted the request of the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law on the revision of BiH institutions by emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure, and thus conclude the debate on the seventh item of the agenda. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda, that's Ad.8. A request from the BiH Election Commission to consider the draft law supplementing the BiH Election Law following an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure This bill from the Election Commission, we received August 22nd. Procedures shall also be sought here under a reduced procedure in accordance with Article 104. The rules of procedure of this house. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate and I'm inviting you ladies and gentlemen to come forward. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, the total vote was 31, against it was not, the abstentions were gone. So, I find that the BiH Election Commission's request for an examination of the Bill on Supplements to the BiH Election Law has been accepted by an emergency procedure in accordance with Article 104. Rules of Procedure. That concludes the debate on the eighth item of the agenda. kolega Novaković, is this agenda point related? 23
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19918	I'm looking later, so I'm looking for a five-minute recess to consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19919	Thank you. So we move to the ninth item of the agenda and before we open the debate, a five-minute break at the request of the SDS Parliament Club. Please don't leave our seats, let's stay out of the way, let's continue right after five minutes. ...simplify the request for a break, no, or is there or isn't? [[PAUZA]] There isn't. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving to the ninth item of the agenda, that's Ad.9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on a draft law on the BiH Emigrant Matika Bill, as you know, was discussed at the 64th session in the first reading. Then the bill in the first reading did not receive an entity majority. You have received a report from the College Commission. No consent has been reached in the College as well as in the Commission. So, I urge you to make a statement about the bill in the second round. So, I invite you, prepare to vote. Vote now. You have no idea what you're voting for. That's why it was a break. You had to sit down a little bit, so you agreed on what you'd vote for, what you wouldn't do, but here's what I'd like to explain. So it wasn't the law in the first reading that got most and the College was supposed to agree on the law. No consent has been reached in the College. Now we're pleading again about the law. So, I can vote all but, therefore, the law, so prepare for the vote. Only those who are against the law vote, that's to make it clearer. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So, v. 3 from the Federation, 11 from the RS. I therefore find that the law has not been adopted, so the law has not been passed, so the Law on the BiH Emigrants' Matika has fallen in the first reading. That concludes the ninth item of the agenda and we move to the tenth point of the agenda, that's Add.10. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission Report on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education, Proposer Momčilo Novakovićć At the 64th session of the Constitutional and Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Framework Law on Higher Education, did not receive an entity majority. So, we went to the 24 alignments within the College. In the Kolegijum's charge, we also failed to reach agreement and now we're going to vote in the second round. If the report is adopted, and if it is less than two-thirds from the RS, or if it is less from the Federation, the law has fallen.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19920	Not a legal report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19921	Report that he fell, of course, and the law in the first reading. I call on you, then, to vote on the Commission's report. I'm calling you. Prepare to vote. Those who are against the Commission's report vote. Prepare to vote. And vote, vote two-thirds. You're suggesting, Doctor ivkovic, the president of the club to repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Vote now. Whoever's against it only votes. And please concentrate on the vote so we don't repeat. So it's up to 13.2 from the Federation, 11 from RS. There's no such thing as no law, it's coming back, isn't it? So now the House is asking the committee to draw up a new report, based on the new guidelines set by the House in the debate, which is your procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And that concludes the tenth item of the agenda. We're going to the eleventh item of the agenda, that's Ad.11. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach an agreement on the Constitutional and Legal Commission report on the SDP's initiative to set up a committee for the adoption of the text of the BiH State Anthem and we had this material at the 64th session which did not receive an entity majority on the SDP Constitutional and Legal Commission Report. I must inform you that we have reached agreement in the College, so there is no vote, just informing the House that the SDP Club's initiative has been accepted. The word was asked for by Mr. Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19922	I thank Mr. Chairman, thank my colleagues for supporting this initiative. However, in order to have some further continuity on the implementation of this initiative, I would like today to propose two concrete conclusions to this home. Am I allowed to suggest two conclusions regarding this initiative?
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19923	Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19924	I'll be very brief. First, the College of the Parliamentary House of BiH is tasked with proposing until the next session to the House first, the composition of a committee or committee to conduct procedures for selecting the text of the national anthem and the deadline for conducting the procedure. The BiH Council of Ministers undertakes to appoint one or three members within the same time limit, leaving it to the College to evaluate, so in this committee or committee, and to provide all necessary assistance in conducting the procedure for the election of the state anthem.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19925	So, I thank you. Of course, I don't mind opening the debate and voting for the conclusion, but if we could ask, so we adopted, so there's no problem with the conclusion of this house being realized, but since it's about the text, so I'd be begging maybe to leave the College a little time to think about which way this job successfully leads to the end. We don't want to conclude, but for sure, we need to see if that's enough. So, if it's been adopted that it's already the College's obligation to see, what commission, what number of people who understand, what is the Council of Ministers' obligation and propose to the House for the next session. I think we're going with no conclusions because we've created a political will to work on it. If that, you think it's enough, if it's not here, I don't mind voting. But I think it's a good thing we got the political will and worked on it. Excuse me, colleague Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19926	First, I stress that it is good that this home has decided to accept this initiative, however, that we would still have some continuity on the realization of this initiative. I can ease these conclusions so let's say that here it is, bound by the College of this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19927	Well, we don't need the mild conclusions of the College being committed, while adopting something to work on, don't let us, when we adopt now, make more commitments, do our job.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19928	I want this to have some kind of head and tail, some kind of deadline.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19929	Well, well, but you see, it was time that the motionary, when he was giving the initiative into it, installed everything he needed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19930	Well, it's time for the initiative to go first, so let's see how we move on. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19931	But yes, here's a colleague, Novaković. I have no objection to pleading. Comrade Novaković, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19932	Business intervention. In fact, the agenda item was, the Commission Report, the Commission submitted a report and there is no debate on this report. So, on the Commission's report because the Commission has agreed, no new conclusions can be discussed on this agenda point and Mr Križanović says he will. What he wants to propose at the next session, we'll move on again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19933	A kolega, Križanović, is formally right, colleague Novaković. So I'm asking you to do the good thing now, so it is because there is no debate at any of the other points where the committee's consent was. So I was the one who agreed to do it. It is not in context, here I merely report, therefore, informing the House of what the Commission has done and there is no vote. There's no debate, because we're done arguing. Well, you may disagree, but let's interpret the Rules of Procedure as well as the other points. So I find that we have concluded the debate, so we have decided to go to the text of the anthem. So, we move to the twelveth agenda, there's no business possibility, I don't mind at the next session. We're going to the twelveth agenda, that's Ad.12. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach an agreement on the interpretation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, as requested by the Constitutional and Legal Commission, did not receive an entity majority at the 64th session, so the coordination procedure was carried out in the College as a committee. You've got the alignment notice. So no consent has been reached within the College. Let's go vote in the second round. Also the same procedure as in previous points, so 9.10 and 11. So, please prepare for the vote. Only those who are against it vote. Please vote now. Are you asking me to do it again? I'm asking you to leave your phones and devote yourself to the vote. 27 I beg you, therefore, at the proposal of our colleaguesŽivković we repeat the vote but please prepare for the vote. Only those who are against it vote. Vote now. So, against 15, 4 of the Federation, 11 of the RS. I find that no report of the Commission has been accepted. That concludes the debate at twelve points. Moving to the thirteenth agenda, that's Ad.13. The Annual Security-Intelligence Policy Platform, the BiH presidency, submitted an annual Security-Intelligence Policy Platform approved at its 75th session on 22 June 2005. The platform was delivered to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration and adoption. You got the platform. You also received a report from a competent commission that, as you have seen, supported the annual platform and proposed to this home as well as the House of Peoples to adopt the Platform. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm concluding the rapture of the ladies and, colleague Križanović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to conclude that today we are discussing the annual Security Intelligence Policy Platform of BiH and we are discussing it on 16.9th for the current year. I'd like to remind you of one more thing. It is that this platform according to that material that we received was adopted or done in the 2nd month of this year, and that the BiH Presidency sent it to Parliament at the end of the 6th month, and we are discussing it at the 9th month. The question is, what is this platform for? Was she, uh, supposed to be the basis and guidance for the work of the Intelligence Security Service? If so, then it can be determined that there was no focus in the work of this Intelligence and Security Service. Secondly, the platform is very general in our assessment and it is to say, a good part of the reflection of what is defined in the Law on the work of the Intelligence and Security Service. So, the priorities are missing so that he can focus and concentrate on the work of this service. What is particularly missing in this platform is the lack of concrete neither targets nor actions. Therefore, I do not want to prolong, since I see that there is no special interest in the House in this debate, I would only like to conclude that this platform, which is being discussed at the 9th month for the current year, is incomplete and that there is no goal that it should have. In this regard, I would particularly like to support the conclusion of the committee responsible, i.e. part of the report of the competent commission recommending that such platforms should be discussed in the future at the latest in the first month of the current year, then they would have their own meaning, importance and impact on the work of the service as well as the evaluation of 28 works and services at the end of the year, as much as they were consistent with the priorities highlighted in the platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19935	I thank my colleague Ksrižanović. Is anyone else answering for word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, since I'm a member of the board of directors, I must say that the commission has supported this platform for easier conduct. Here's the call for you to come forward on this platform. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So 27, 3 against, 1 abstention. 20 Federations, 7 RS. So I'm saying that we've accepted the Security-Intelligence Policy Platform. And thus obtained the conditions to move to the fourteenth point of the agenda, Ad.14. Ad hoc report to select the appointments of members of the BiH Election Commission under the procedure of proposing members of the Election Commission from the order of the Serbian and Bosniak people According to the conclusion of this House from the 64th session, since 31.8.2005, I will remind you that at the last session, when we discussed the proposal for a candidate for a member of the Croatian People's Election Commission, we have tasked the Ad hoc Commission to elect and appoint the House to submit a report on the procedure for proposing members of the selection committee from the order of the Serbian and Bosniak people under the announced competition of 10 June 2005, in view of complaints from individual candidates in the election process. The Ad hoc commission came to the conclusion of the House and delivered the report. You received this report, and here I want to inform you that the candidate who is complaining, so Mrs. Branka Inić is also present at this session. I salute her, she asked to attend this session. We are therefore a democratically open Parliament, and in this sense, here I am opening a debate on the report of our commission. Who's answering for a word? Is anyone answering for a word? Mr. Beriz Belkić is answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19936	I thank this temporary and ad hoc commission for this report. Unfortunately, however, I still have certain dilemmas. So it's not clear to me, or I couldn't find a definition or an explanation of what an election expert is, or what an election experience is, so I have a very serious reserve in that criterion and its application. And, secondly, if it is true that in two competitions were different these conditions, when it comes to the source of members of the Election Commission, I think this parliament is facing a serious 29 problem. So I'm kind of saying, I support this commission report, but I'm showing these two reserves.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19937	Thank you very much, Mr. Belkić. The President, Mr. Špirić, has come to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19938	Gentlemen chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, namely, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Presidential Council has made a final decision on the proposal for a report by the Ad hoc Commission. At the time, I may have had my position thanks to Mr. Beriz Belkić's discussion, but what we must establish as a representative council, no one is without sin and the matter and is an institution and democratic institutions, if there were weaknesses and failures to accept them and seek to remove them, especially without them in the future. But if it is true, and the check is to determine, it is true that for selecting the same members, the same commissions from different peoples, are different texts of the competition. No one in this country can convince me that it is good and that it is in line with positive democratic practice, especially in accordance with the law. Because if, in the selection of members, the members of the Election Commission of the Bosniak and Serbian people say they are looking for experience for at least 5 years of working experience in the conduct of elections, and for the election of a Croatian member, at least 5 years of work experience, then that is not okay. The second thing that is not, which is also confirmed, is that it is therefore necessary for the decision to be attended by five members. And as far as I can tell, there were no five members present in the report. To verify whether or not it is a misinformation, but if so, it means that a decision has been taken which does not comply with the procedure, or which does not comply with the Electoral Act as a legal act. And not to talk about other things that might be less disputable, to this unhappy country, that's what's called gender equality, was it better if we had candidates of the same rank, same quality, that we had a ratio of 6:2 and not 6:1 in favour of males. So, I'm not saying anything ugly, I'm saying for the candidates who have been elected, I have no intention but my intention is to draw attention to the fact that perhaps as MPs we're unfortunately disinformed and I'm not going to say it on purpose. So we all have the right to make mistakes but we don't have the right not to make mistakes and not to admit it, not for the sake of a candidate who hasn't passed, but for the sake of preventing negative practice in this country. This can become a practice if Parliament notices weaknesses and does not want to remove them. If they asked me what the solution is now, I might answer and I don't have any but Parliament has to say whether there was a failure, whether or not this is what counterpart Belkić is talking about. And this isn't a question that needs to be covered. So it's not a question of my assessment that needs to be closed, but to see how as the strongest legislative institution we can get out of this. Only an individual can be damaged here, but it would be the same if we made such decisions that it was more citizens and people. So I ask you, let us conduct a debate and come to a conclusion that will safeguard the credibility of this legislative body. So, I'm not going to say anything ugly about the work of the Commission or the candidates who have been admitted, but I just want to keep it simple while we're here in the 30 Parliament, so we can just do an analysis, have we made a mistake? If so, let's see how we can correct the mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19939	Thank you, Mr. Špirić. Business intervention, Mr. Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19940	Well, me, my intervention was in whether, this part when Mr Špirić and Mr Belkić were part of the discussion of a matter that was not the subject of this report, and they talked about the election of a Croatian member of the Election Commission of BiH and the competition for the member. We, as the Ad hoc commission, have been given a clear task from this home and I think we are here to answer all questions on this report and on this agenda point. And I haven't heard a single question yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19941	Okay, thank you, Mr. Zorić. The word again has the chairman, Mr. Špirić, the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19942	So it's not a replica, it's a question. Of course, we need to get this straight. So, on the Commission, the Ad hoc commission, were all members of the Electoral Commission present? So we can make a decision because it's the law. Are they or aren't they? If so, that's my personal question. So, I didn't say, so that by law it would be a valid decision, everyone had to be present. Here's my question, if I can get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19943	Thank you. We will, Mr. Zorić, answer and then Mr. Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19944	So, at the Ad hoc panel meeting to elect members of the Electoral Commission, only those members of the Electoral Commission were present were they, who were members and were invited. No members of the Election Commission who are not members of the Ad hoc commission are invited. So, it seems to me that fellow Špirić is harassing the Ad hoc commission and the Electoral Commission. Not all members and look at the stenogram, you asked for members of the Electoral Commission. Members of the Ad hoc commission have seven members. Of the 7 there were 5. Decisions are made in two-thirds and decisions are taken in two-thirds. Vinko Zorić, Lidija Korać, Momčilo Novaković, Zekerijah Mujkanović and Hazim Felić attended. The absence was justified by Slobodan Stanišić and Vehid Šehić. That's all in the report, and that's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19945	Mr. Gligorić pa Avdić pa Novaković. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19946	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. We also discussed this issue at the Expansive College and concluded that it would be a good idea to do so on the agenda and thus try to respond to these remarks that point to our commission that she has committed significant injuries to the election process. Here we got on the benches, I think we got on the bench performance of Mrs. Branka Inić who thinks that in this election process and by our Ad hoc commission, they've made significant injuries to the process and here they are taxed, as far as this applies. I think it would be normal for the MPs to answer on behalf of the commission whether these remarks we have received are because we have entered the procedure that this is the agenda point and that we are thus giving importance and seriousness to this problem. No one is allowed to be any citizen of BiH to be hurt by any decision of this parliament or its commission in any way. I think there is a need for this question here, that complete answers are given individually, as indicated here. After that, I think it is necessary to define the same conclusion that this would not be a story in vain, but it should also have its own precise conclusion as far as possible. At the same time and what kind of legal instruction to give, how do you solve this issue if it is found that there have been significant injuries? We also have the fact that our commission ended it, that this is the House of Representatives confirmed it, and we are now in a situation that I have these fundamental remarks, that we mix a little bit like our commission did and what the BiH Election Commission is. I would not, uh, go towards us producing some legal or political dribbles but simply have a concrete fact on the table that we should seriously and responsibly consider and see within the competences of this representative home or jurisdiction which he has transferred to the Ad hoc Commission. And in that sense, I don't see anything wrong with that being given one correct answer. If you feel that there was no significant breach of the procedure, that you did everything in accordance with the assignment you received from the House of Representatives, and yet regarding the material laws that treat this, then it's not a problem. But if there is still any problem, then we, as a House of Representatives, should have taken that responsibility if we had amnested any action within the commission of our choice, if there were such injuries. I'm just asking one correct explanation and, of course, how to get out of this situation, we'll see what conclusion, working conclusion at the end of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19947	I thank my colleague Gligorić. Dr. Avdić has the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19948	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear guests. At first sight, this issue is not important for the state parliament in relation to the adoption of laws and everything else we do. But objectively, my opinion is that this request and possible violation of human rights and a simple violation of the procedure is 32 objectively of the highest priority for this Parliament because everything it does and does should be implemented on just examples as uniquely as this one. Which means in general, you can't just reject this assumption or just neutralize it. I'm particularly concerned about attitude one, and that's a fact, we've published two competitions with two different texts. Whether you want to admit it or not. It doesn't matter, I mean, I don't comment on the election procedure of the Croatian Electoral Commission member, but two different competitions. Which means, the implication is that it is simply not true and who can interpret what it means for at least 5 years in BiH's election processes. What does that mean? And who can interpret it in particular today. Is it two least electoral processes since every other year, municipal, state, what does that mean? That's the problem. That's where we had to explain before the competition in full what 5 years meant, at least 5 years of participation in the election processes in BiH. And in this context, the question really arises, this is point 1 of the different text of competition and different interpretation, at least 5 years of participation in election processes, objectively giving this presentation and this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19949	Thank you, fellow Avdić. Replicu is wanted by his colleague Zorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19950	Here's the guy who's been looking for a replica before.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19951	Is it a replica? Replica, colleague Novaković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19952	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, but obviously I have some facts here that I have to say to some colleagues, they're twisting for the simple reason that people aren't enough in the course of this problem. First of all, the Commission's report, i.e. the Ad hoc commission, is on the agenda. So, we're discussing the Ad hoc report, establishing whether we have any objections to the report or not. We can, and we don't have to consider the representation we got because this lady here could not give that representation to the House of Representatives. I must say that when it comes to attitude 1, when it comes to leaving 1, all the candidates were fully equal in the competition because the competition was called for for three members of the Electoral Commission, one in the order of Croatia, one in the order of the Serb people, one in the order of the Bosniak people, and one in the order of the Bosniak people, and one in all were asked for the exact same condition. And that's five years of experience in the election process. I'm talking about the first competition. So all the candidates in the first competition were equal. From the order of the Serb and Bosniak people, candidates appeared, there were no candidates from the Croatian people. I'm saying, they were even, so it wasn't in the first competition that there were any differences in the conditions, which immediately automatically means that this position 2 is from the clause that I take, it loses its meaning. 33 I must also say that the Rules of Procedure are not envisaged, the Rules of Procedure means by which public competition procedures are not provided for when voting, interviews must be attended by all members. Please, Article 8 says – Ah hoc commission for the selection of appointments at the first session elects the president by majority vote provided that all members attend the session. And that's only when the sessions must be attended by all members. And that's when President Ad hoc commission is elected. Further to the Rules of Procedure, no obligation has been defined for all members to attend the committee's session, the Ad hoc commission, even at the moment of the vote on candidates. The next thing I want to say as a member of the Ad hoc commission, I want to tell Seji Avdić, the Ad hoc commission is the one doing the interview. Let her, on the basis of the interview, determine how much who had experience in the election process on the basis of the questions she was asking. And that's what she could do, because what an interview serves her if she can't carry out an evaluation and we assume that we put people who can do it there, first of all because there are people from the Election Commission, people from very important institutions like the High Court and Prosecution Council, and let's ignore the three of us from the House of Representatives who don't have much to do with this, about the election process. So I think the Commission's report really needs to be accepted because the report is because the Commission has been working in accordance with the law and its rules of procedure. Of course, I'm not going to comment on this remark about women's attitudes, I don't think they would make any sense to comment on the House of Representatives because then we would have to engage and why they're not in the Presidency, so why there are so many, or so many, etc. It's really not necessary. We have assessed the conditions of the competition and based on these conditions and laws, we have come up with a proposal, i.e. a rank list that this home could or could not have, or had or did not have to be clear, accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19953	I thank my colleague Novaković. Dr. Kunić, was it a replica? A replica of Zorić, then Dr. Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19954	Like this, my colleague Avdić, and I repeat others again, they're not talking about something that's not the point of the agenda. If this continues, I'll come out, you let me know when the report is on the agenda, I'll be back. I'm doing it right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19955	I thank my colleague Zorić, but I don't think it's, just a little bit, correct. Just take it easy, take it easy. The replica of Dr. Avdić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19956	There shouldn't be emotion here or anger at anything. It's about human rights. Which means I repeat it one more time. Mr President, is this provision relevant to a document that can be discussed and which is on the benches of the Members? Number one. Is the document relevant? If it's not to move him to 34 pages. So absolutely no, it's not a relevant document to consider on this agenda point. That's what matters. Then the very fact that you let your colleague into Parliament, in the House, means it justifies my behavior and my discussion that it makes sense to discuss this observation as well. If it makes sense and she's an integral part of the agenda, then that's another story. I appreciate it. My colleague Novaković is on his way to explain this in part. However, objective counterpart Novaković cannot allow the Ad hoc commission the freedom to appreciate the conditions of the competition. The conditions of the competition are clearly specified in the document of the competition to which man appears. So the commission can't appreciate the simple conditions of the competition.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19957	I'm just asking you to replicate, don't open the discussion again.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19958	Which means, in this context, the Ad hoc commission cannot fully, put under question and appreciate what this means 5 years in the BiH election procedure. No, I didn't get an answer, which means five years in the BiH election process.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19959	Take it easy, Dr. Kunić replica. Is there any further? Please don't, I can't, I've got to run this. No one's gonna take the right to replicate. Someone's pressuring, someone's raising their hand, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19960	The Honorable Presidency, therefore impartially, legally, is very strange that some lawyer who knows the right to listen to this debate is impossible that this play is not related to the commission's report, this is important for the commission's report. Absolutely, no dilemma. So please, if it's true what the candidate says, here are injuries not only procedurally, procedurally, paua procedures, but also material rights. It says here, at least five years of work experience. So these five years of work experience can be everywhere, let's just have experience... and elsewhere, work experience for at least five years on the team and team. So you can't publish in different places different content of the competition. They must be the same. Second of all, there's a second injury from the plane. That's what the candidate said again. The Rules of Procedure of the Election Commission, and here he said... the procedure that he was injured. Of course he's hurt. I won the contest against the Rules of Procedure of the Electoral Commission. Wait, I believe if this is true, please make sure it's true, which is why I said it's true. Please don't, please, when I talk about legal issues to jump in, if this is true, so a normative act exists, there is a Rules of Procedure that determines these conditions, as it says in the normative act, must be published in the contest. There can't be any difference. If that's true, it's a breach of legal norm again. Therefore, they are absolutely in two places, an absolutely injured legal norm. Let's not discuss this anymore. Well, that's what every court in the plane sees is hurt. People, so don't waste your time in the cludentials. If what it says is true. Has anyone found out what he's writing? Please tell me. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19961	I thank Dr. Kunić. Please a brief replica of Mr. Belkić and let's see, let's get out of the replica if possible, please. Since Novaković had a replica, that's why I'm skipping you and seeing you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19962	It's a replica, I'll stick to the Rules of Procedure. So, the replica is to Mr Zorć's remarks and Mr. Novaković's remarks. So, my debate didn't come out of the agenda, and I've shown some ambiguity, for me a misunderstanding, and now I'm going to turn them into a question. And please answer me. First, is there a definition of this criterion, or an clarification of the election experience, in the election process or in the election experience? You gave a partial answer that didn't satisfy me. You said you came up with a background check and found out through the interview with the candidates that you were finding out that way. I asked, is there a definition? Furthermore, is this criterion therefore an election experience or an election experience 5 years in the election process, defined by the Rules of Procedure on Elections or the Election Law? And is that exactly how it's defined? And lastly, is the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the law or with the Electoral Law when it comes to the presence of people in selecting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19963	I thank my colleague, Belkić. I'd ask the board members to give answers later. A colleague, Džaferović, has a word.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19964	...so he can be determined about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19965	You'll all get the word, just a little bit, the main thing is we're looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19966	Gentlemen Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, I must say immediately that I am one of those who voted in favour of candidates who today perform the duties of members of the Electoral Commission and of the order of the Bosniak and Serbian and Croatian people, so this over the past 2-3 weeks that we have chosen. I need to say this because of the discussion and here is the intensification of the discussion and the content of what I'm going to talk about, but I'm certainly in line with people who are ready to subsequently review their proceedings and if this review finds that a certain mistake has been made, to insist that mistakes be corrected. 36 I think we were wrong last time in this house when we adopted one, I'd say an insufficient conclusion. Look, this is the last time we made a commitment to the Ad hoc commission on August 31st, the Ad hoc commission to elect members of the Election Commission to submit a report to the House of Representatives at the next session on the procedure of proposing members of the Election Commission from the Serb and Bosniak people according to the scheduled competition of 10.6.2005., and not on the basis of which Dom performed the appointment, etc. And then the Ad hoc commission, following that conclusion, made a report exclusively on the election of members of the Electoral Commission from the Bosniak and Serb nations. Mrs Inić's statement, a real broad procedure compared to this key claim by her, claims against the key injury, therefore, the different conditions of the competition. Its performance is a broader procedure, and it also refers to the election of members of the Croatian People's Election Commission. And formally legal, Mr. Zorić is right. He and his commission completed the task because he gave an answer to the asked question. But that way we haven't solved the problem, we haven't answered the question asked in Mrs. Inić's play. That is why I believe it is necessary for the report, that we return this report to the Commission today, that the commission complete this report and that in the updated report, it gives full consideration to the overall selection procedure of all three members of the BiH Election Commission. Why is that necessary? There are other things here that again, correctness works, should be said. Mrs. Inić, is it Inić? Yes, in his play, he says that in a competition for the election of members of the Election Commission of the Serb and Bosniak people, there is a demand for less than 5 years of working experience in the conduct of the elections and for the selection of members of the board of directors of the Croatian people, working experience for at least 5 years. So there's no connection to the experience of making choices. By listing these competitions, the first competition to be called for three members of the Electoral Commission, so no member of the Election Commission of the Croatian People has applied, it therefore states that the necessary professional qualifications, high professional training, legal expert with experience in the conduct of the elections or election expert and the necessary working experience for at least 5 years of experience in the conduct of the elections. In this competition, which has been called candidate from the Croatian people, it says that work experience is required for at least 5 years. But again, I say, correctness works, no one will say, and that is said in this contest, the necessary professional qualifications, the high professional preparation, a legal expert with experience in the conduct of elections or an election expert. It is true, therefore, that there is also an emphasis here on the dimension of the experience in the elections but it is also true that it says in this competition that a working experience of 5 years is needed and in this first competition a working experience of 5 years in the conduct of elections. I'm interested now, so these two things have to connect. I am now interested, because from the report by our Ad hoc commission that our Ad hoc commission has said, therefore, candidates in the report we are discussing today, Branka Inić and Amir Pilav, are also invited to discuss which they have approached but have not presented evidence confirming their experience in the conduct of elections, i.e. election experts. President Ad hoc told the commission that the appointed opinion of 37 all members does not formally satisfy the conditions of the competition. It's also standing here. So here we can go a little bit complicated, but I've been doing an analysis, so this whole case, because I don't want this Parliament to ultimately make any decision that would confirm any irregularities he's made. I'm about to get rid of them, or if they haven't committed irregularities, then it's said that these irregularities haven't been committed. For example, here I am particularly interested in whether this Ad hoc commission, when it selected candidates in the second competition, for the election of members of the Election Commission from the Croatian people, had the same approach. So now I'm asking the point. So, this issue is a work experience related to the 5-year election process. If the Electoral Commission had an Ad hoc commission of pardons, had the same approach during the second competition, I would be willing to confirm that no mistake was made. But if someone here is eliminated because there is no necessary experience in the election process, and someone who does not have the necessary experience in the election process has passed here, then we have committed a violation of the rights of the people who applied to the competition. For this reason, I apologize for saying a little longer, that it is necessary for us today to ask our commission to supplement this report with regard to these issues and those questions that Mr Belkić asked in his discussion, and to deliver to us for the next session an updated report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19967	...well, we have to wait, what I'm going to do, that's the Rules of Procedure, and I'd love it if there were no replicas, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19968	Here's a short replica to Mr. Avdić. In part, Mr. Džaferović answered the question of Avdic, reading the commission's report, which is essentially the chairman himself several times said that we may not have read enough or understood the Ad hoc report. Namely, some of the members, or candidates who reported to the competition in the material itself, did not provide evidence that they knew or participated in the electoral procedure. For that reason, the Ad hoc commission of course had to take the right to ask him and offer that evidence. Since there was no such evidence, the Ad hoc commission took the right to make a ranking list based on the competition that was called. So, in the materials we got, those evidence didn't exist, the Ad hoc commission asked for that evidence in an oral interview. She didn't get them and made a rank list based on oral conversations and those materials that came along with the application for a concussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19969	Thank you, colleague Novaković, and Zorić. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19970	I really have no intention of answering any questions. There's a chairman of the Ad hoc committee here, what I am, which I want to replicate, is that some of the members here that I usually appreciate are discussing the Rules of Procedure and talking about how he's been violated without even seeing him. They have not seen the Rules of Procedure, counterpart Avdić has never seen this Rules of Procedure, which he claims has been violated. So is Professor Kunić. I'm reputably claiming that the Rules of Procedure have not been broken. I am responsibly claiming as a Member of the Commission that at no time has the Rules of Procedure been broken and I am responsible, so I am now speaking on my behalf, on behalf of the Commission, will speak to the chairman, responsibly saying that no human rights have been harmed by any who participated in the competition. So everyone had the right to participate, had the right to be elected, could be chosen who met the conditions of the competition. I can't figure it out, I really can't figure out that the House of Representatives can order us to question why someone didn't get on the list who didn't meet the conditions of the competition. Well, we did an interview even though we didn't need it because apparently the candidate doesn't meet the conditions of the competition. So we did that part so we wouldn't have this debate. Well, I'm terribly unhappy with a lot of things, so I don't write performances. And my male rights have been compromised, so I should write to the commission, write to our commission that my rights have been compromised, why I haven't been elected chairman of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19971	Thank you. Dr. Kunić's tiny replica, I apologize to Zorić for being a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19972	I must say, it concerns the work of this House. He loses his dignity, his seriousness, etc. So it's like this if a man is real, sad to look especially if you step aside, take a look. Please, we didn't come here to be legally convinced, and here the arguments are legally very clear. Here, Mr. Džaferović also said that in the guideline of work experience, material rights have been violated and that is already the reason for all of this to repeat this competition, etc. So that's the reason. It doesn't have to because it's not the same way in the same text, same text, so it says here what it is, corresponds to accuracy. So please don't leave that primitive demagogue of yours for someone else, don't give me the demagogy. I'm talking about legal stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19973	I'm begging you, and we're listening, so we don't throw
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19974	Leave your primitive demagogue and bathe in it, you're very nice there. You obviously feel good, but leave me when I first talk about things. And don't throw it at me. I never throw it to you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19975	Please let Dr. Kunić finish,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19976	And don't be rude. You are very rude, you terrorize this Parliament very often with primitive things. And don't do that to me. You can't do that with me, you know.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19977	Let Dr. Kunić hang.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19978	So, please, there's been a violation of material law here, which is said, so the paralegals said, so don't lecture us now on the rights of some people who don't have anything to do with the law. And let's get it over with. There's no reason to discuss it for two hours and waste time on it, we're wasting everyone's time. No matter how this works, I really don't know. And, well, go ahead, prepare these things for my men. Don't put me in a position where I have to argue with someone I would never discuss law. I have to do this in Parliament, but you can see the unpleasant situations I'm experiencing. You see what unpleasant situations, people like that, people get into these things and they can experience it. Well, I don't want to. But it's simply a higher power because we have such a structure of people who have skipped something in life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19979	Thank you. I beg you, let's just make sure that in replicas we talk about what is a problem without speaking to each other personally. A fellow Martin replica, and then a fellow Zorić, I'm sorry not yet.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19980	I have to replicate to Mr. Kunić, who is under the reason that some people do not know the legal matter and call them a radical recipient. I would now put it in the context of academic calling and the overall dimension of relations in this House so that in some way I would return that everyone can know one matter or less or more but has no right to accuse those words by some other people in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19981	Thank you. I don't want you to speak to each other personally in the future, to avoid it, I can't, of course, forbid you, but everyone talks about himself the most. dotore Kunić, here you go again. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19982	Please, Mr. Raguž, you're probably qualified to be Mr. Zorić's attorney.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19983	I've replicated to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19984	I guess he gave you power of attorney, I didn't really touch you either, with you pompous.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19985	I didn't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19986	So this is where the question arises who was throwing it to whom. I was saying, Mr. Zorić threw it at me. I never threw or threw at him. I don't even have that custom. And I'm not going to let it get to me when I'm talking about some things and I'm very serious, I'm trying to be serious, I'm not kidding in Parliament, this is Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19987	I thank Dr. Kunić. Comrade Zorić, have a line.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19988	I'll first look back at the buildings of two exhibitions, I didn't feel at all that Martin was my lawyer, because I didn't feel even called because I didn't. What the one who spoke after Mr. Raguž, mentions primitiveism, can speak in his surroundings and in his house, anywhere. I, he can speak in my presence, but I'll never feel like he told me because that's not who I am. Now, let's cut to the chase, I'm not going to look back on a letter from some private channels that came here on the bench. I say to the private, because it says nice on that letter that through the president they get MPs and not representatives on the bench, through club presidents. Someone was doing the job of club president. On purpose or on purpose, let the College judge. What my colleague Džaferović asked me to do here, that's why I called. He asked although it was not the subject of the report, I will look back on what was the election process when a Croatian member of the presidency was elected, is it necessary to have experience in the election process? I have to tell you, that all those who came to the interview, they all had a question as to whether you were involved, as much as and in what way in the election process? But why wasn't it in the competition? Because no one answered the first contest. If someone had responded to the first competition in the order of the Croatian people, and had no proof of the election process, we would have interviewed him because we hired another candidate and would probably have been elected to the same session and under the same conditions of the competitions as 41 selected both Serbian and Bosniak. Since there were no candidates in the first competition in the order of the Croatian people, it is normal to mitigate the criteria. We thought that this might be a criterion, why no one in the order of the Croatian people came forward, and we thought that it was precisely that, that people were not clear, that they were not experienced in the electoral process, and we threw out that criterion. Why? So someone can answer it. But it has nothing to do with the first competition. He who was dissatisfied and thought that he had been suspended by the first competition could have pleaded as a Hrvat and reported to the second competition. I mean, I don't know, I don't know what people want. People want to be forced into the Electoral Commission. If the House of Representatives doesn't think that what's written here in the report, what's written in the Rules of Procedure and the Law, and what's finally written in the contests for the election and in one and the other contests, here's even though this other competition isn't the subject, let one or both of them happen again, this ad hoc commission will do it, but I assure you that there have been no injuries and that this report that I'm talking about is quite correct and true, which is most significant in this case. I'm not going to look back on those letters, and in addition to solving and adopting this report, I'm going back to the hall, because why would someone who had nothing to do with this be more authorized in this room than the one who was chosen by the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19989	Thank you, no more replicas. I'm asking you to really avoid replicas. For the word of the Lord,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19990	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19991	Proposal, I'm asking you to go discussion now would not propose. So, as part of the discussion. Here's Maro for a little while, so we have regular discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19992	I thank you for finally coming to say a few sentences about this. I suggest we make a statement on the agenda point, and that's the Ad hoc Commission report, number one. Under the number 2nd presentation of citizens as well as any other notions of citizens to be forwarded to the Human Rights Commission, since here, according to this play, it states that its human rights have been violated. Like any other notion, the Commission will consider human rights, give its opinion, and we will discuss it at one of the next sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19993	Wait a minute, please. Let's have regular discussions. I'm a colleague of Bešlagić. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19994	Here's the proof when you get worse... the materials in the vote itself, then this is how you ask the question. Did you Ad hoc commission, by law? You say, yes, and MPs vote for what was there. And the lady sent the material through the Gender Projects Commission, Mrs Perkanović read that letter, about me, I would say, the irregularities of the Commission and I accidentally got it, I reacted as I said, asking for an answer to this question, and I voted against it. But they're chosen, I can't do anything to them. Today we have what is now being debated, with a note that the process has begun in progress, which proves that the lady is right to send a comment. Is it possible for our ad hoc commission to assess legality or illegality? Kadija's suing you, cadiya's judging you. I don't think it's good. And I think what Džaferović said, we should literally take another commission, legal or let him take it and make it happen and get a report and then definitely this parliament takes a stand, let's go to the competition to cancel out as Zorić says, let the Ad hoc commission reconsider the new candidates, etc. One principle question arises, that no one has appeared at another competition from the Croatian people. Would you reduce it to three years, maybe a condition? Or preparation. So I think what's not written and defined is causing replicas in which we're even starting to insult ourselves. So, I don't want to offend anyone, I just suggest what Džaferović said, but not to be an Ad hoc commission, can't Ad hoc commission, I don't think that commission will ever say, we've been working past the law, because here they cite a series of these things that they say they've been doing. This should be done by another commission, whether it's... or by the Human Rights Commission, but we don't have a lawyer there, so we won't be sensitive anymore. So, it's... The Commission for this, constitutional-legal. And I think that way we can overcome this question and get answers. And therefore, and the remark that is significant, we are not because we are living in Hawaii, which are aliens, we are talking about people who have the right to come to this Parliament. So, I think Mr. Džaferović's proposal is quite correct, but not through the Ad hoc commission, but here's the Commission for,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19995	Thank you. A brief replica of counterpart Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19996	Just for a little while. So, Mr. Bešlagić. I think it just has to be this ad hoc commission. We cannot, in relation to our colleagues, form some other bodies that will make decisions about the decisions that our colleagues have made in the bodies. I think it should be the Ad hoc commission, because at the beginning of the discussion Mr. Zorić was not present when I spoke here in the O.R. So, the Ad hoc commission made a report in relation to the task it received from the House of Representatives, and the task was a report on the election of a Bosniak and Serbian member of the Election Commission, and it put an end there. The play, imputes, seeks a wider procedure. So, to connect and I think that, and the choice of a Croatian member and I think that the Ad hoc commission should complete its report. And to me, the key question in the aspect of human rights violations is 43 whether the candidates in both competitions had the same treatment. And they had the same treatment, if all candidates were asked for experience in the election process. Then I don't care who came through or who was eliminated. But if the other competition is otherwise handled, then we can talk about an incorrect relationship and a relationship that can be brought into violation of human rights. And I am interested in the answer to that question, not to repeat it, which was asked by Mr Belkić. That's why you need to do exactly the Ad hoc commission that we've appointed here and yes, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19997	Thank you. I'm asking you in the future to avoid replicas. We'll come to the conclusion, let everyone who has what they want not to wait. A kolega, Moranjkić, and a colleague, Križanović, discussed.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19998	I thank Mr. Chairman, normally I keep waiting for the replicas to be poured, and I guess that's what's done. What I'm interested in here is a few vague things for me. First, I fully agree with the part of the reaction of my colleague Mare, that there is a Report or Report on the agenda, and we need to keep an eye on him. I resent that whoever brought this to the bench didn't and said that in the agenda, compared to the report, they would argue on this subject. Secondly, what I'm interested in is whether the candidates who competed in the competition have received a written reply and those who were admitted and those who were not, and usually rightly so, in the end, who is not satisfied with whom they complain. If it complains to Parliament, it should be said to Parliament. Then let's not throw the ball away. If it isn't Parliament, then I don't see this wide debate of the place, but to narrow it down to someone who needs to be in order, an authority that will respond to the appeal. Is it this ad hoc commission, is it constitutional-ustavno-pravni, is it a secretariat of some etc. If it was a Kolegijum, then it had to stand like that, in my opinion. And that's why it's a little vague for me. I suggest, to get out of this, we really move in circles, and then we touch each other, and then we jump to replicas, and then we do it unconsciously, to accept this, Mr. Džaferović's proposal, to do the rest of the work in that sense, to have someone put an end to this open question because we're just opening it up and chasing it in circles. And we're not gonna come up with a solution if we don't bring it down to a lefty that needs to give a final solution. There are no solutions here in Parliament and I would ask you in the College, and I would ask my colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u19999	I'm asking you, we only have a registered colleague, Križanović, because he has an announcement to take a break. Let's take this point, take a break to try to bring this point to an end. Take care of the discussion, discuss issues, not what anyone thinks, what who says. 44 Here you go, colleague Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20000	Thank you. I'll be real quick. But before that I wanted to say that after this debate today, I don't know how, what difference between replica and discussion. First, I want to say at first that what I was going to say, that it was a good part of what Mr. Džaferović said, in which I am very much in agreement with it. I particularly support the suggestion and invitation of my colleague Džaferović that this home has the strength to recognise certain discounts he has made, to show strength to correct something. And you see, the fact that we've been discussing the election problem for the third time for the election of members of the Electoral Commission suggests that we had here seems to be some kind of unquality process. I fully respect and appreciate the work of our colleagues in the Ad hoc commission but it seems to me that the whole of this, this problem has been brought into one time narrow, that everything has been going on in one.... Let's say, at the last session, we chose a Croatian member in the Election Commission without a word about candidates, about their résumé, about their biography. We've always received reports and candidates' proposals at the session itself, so here we go again today. Even today, the report on the work, that is, on the procedure of election of members of the Election Commission, is being held today on the bench, and the session is scheduled 16 days ago. I haven't looked at the report in principle because I don't think I have the capacity of such people that, in addition to 16 points of the agenda, I have to take care of and prepare for them, that during the session I have this capacity to read and metrically participate in the evaluation of such a report. That is why I support my colleague Džaferović's proposal, so it would be appropriate for this report to return to re-adjustment, also respecting these suggestions that perhaps, in cooperation with other commissions, an assessment of the performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20001	Next, ladies and gentlemen, at the request of counterpart Džaferović from the College, a break of up to two hours.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20002	It's a lunch break and for those who need to go to the jujum, to go to the jujum, like that. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20003	We're going back to work. Who's next in line for the discussion? Mrs. Palavrić Sead, please. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20004	I thank you and we need to reheat now but what I wanted to say before the break is the fact that we are really turning this plenary session of the House into something that is below the level of commission work. We've had ideas so far, we've had situations where citizens have spoken to us but we've never had a debate like today and turned into I don't know, not the commission, but some court. As far as I know, we had a report on the Ad hoc commission today, and it was supposed to be about him, and I still think we should make a statement about him. Mrs Inić's latest performance says there will be no end to this, because when the Ad hoc commission offers the report that we have asked for, the show is now being extended to a re-competition where Mrs Inić has not even participated. So it wasn't even the subject of a report that was supposed to be submitted by the Ad hoc commission. But as for my conscience, she's clean, I've checked with my colleagues, even the elected candidate we voted for last time, meets all the conditions of the Croatian people and has five years in the election process. So we have nothing more to make a case than this. And my impression is that there's always a case. And I wanted to, and then I suggest, and now I suggest that we make a statement about the report we've been looking for, and anyone who thinks that the committee's actions, parliamentary commissions have violated their rights, have the means beyond this room to protect their rights that could possibly be violated. So, I suggest we make a statement on the Ad hoc report.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20005	Thank you. Who's next to the word? Nobody's answering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the debate. It lasted as long as it lasted, we all talked about how we saw this problem. I'm asking you to help me now, there was a different course of suggestion. One proposal was and, of course, we will vote on the Ad hoc Commission report, one of the proposals was that the Ad hoc Commission, taking into account all the circumstances, so the second report and the play we heard today, submitted a new report to Parliament, so having all this in mind, I suggest, there is also a third proposal, to protect the Ad hoc Commission, to form a committee that will have everything in mind both the statement and what the Commission's report is, to inform this Parliament. Please be nice, everything that gets most of this House will be legal and legitimate for me. So we're going to take a number of conclusions. So, the first conclusion was, I see how many Mr. Šefik Džaferović and the others supported it,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20006	The report is first in line with the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20007	I get what if we get into the situation where I'm here, I predict like all of you who are here. So we better try to do the job all the way. What if you drop the report? The ones you want, the commission report? Well, please, please, let's just say that this isn't as irrelevant as some people think we're gonna end up in no time. Here, here's who wants to help, let him try to help. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20008	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, we have learned some facts during the debate today, and perhaps some of us may not know, I really don't want to overestimate or underestimate anyone, in this situation, that as fair and fair judgments as possible. But this is all that's said today and it's about the clarification of this report, it's a stenogram. We in Parliament's official documentation have documentation relating to two competitions. We have today's report in written form of our ad hoc commission and we have a performance of one of the participants in one of the competitions. And when you look at it, and turn off today the crack and the facts that we may have been able to hear, and the ones that Mrs. Palavrić was talking about now in her discussion, then whoever's looking at that file won't be able to draw an adequate conclusion about what it was and how it was supposed to be done. That is why I think it is necessary, and I think it should be the first proposal to be put to the vote, because it excludes this second one, or this second one, from this first one, that our ad hoc commission, to give full information. It's not the commission's fault, the Ad hoc commission, for delivering a report like this because we asked for such a report to refer to the full selection procedure of all three members of the Electoral Commission. And let that report say all of what we said here today and let some questions be answered. For me, I repeat, the key thing is whether at the second competition in the decision-making and work of the commission, one of the key things was the qualification of candidates related to the electoral process and to the electoral process. That's the key thing for me. I, too, can conclude on the son’s side the existence of injuries or the absence of human rights violations. Eliminate some candidates or not eliminate them. And that is why I consider it because of us, because of this home, a complete report is needed in writing, which, of course, could be made known afterwards. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20009	I thank my colleague Džaferović. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the debate, so this conclusion is that the Ad hoc commission on the basis of the existing report and the debate that has been conducted, the new arguments from the play, offers a complete report for the first and second contests and offers it to Parliament for consideration. Who's up for that proposal? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 24, 3 against, abstention 3. It has an entity and total majority. I find this conclusion accepted. That's not going to explain this proposal because he was in college with this first one and we're not voting on the report because we didn't adopt the report today. This would end the 14th point of the agenda. I thank my colleague, Inić, who asked to attend and we approved her to attend this debate. 47 We move to the 15th point of the agenda. Ad.15. A resolution on the BiH institutions' relationship to the mandate and the change of the new High Representative of the International Community, MP Zlatko Lagumdžija and Jozo Križanović, the SDP MPs' club, submitted a proposal for the resolution on 10 May 2005, when it was decided in the House to consider the proposed resolution previously in the relevant commission. The home's foreign affairs commission, taking the lead in addition to the resolution's proposals, held a public debate on the BiH institution's relationship with the mandate of the international community's High Representative in BiH. Following the debate, the Commission submitted to the House a proposal for a conclusion on which we held a debate at the 62nd session and commissioned the Foreign Affairs Commission to draw concrete conclusions on the basis of the debate at the House and to deliver to the House for adoption. However, the SDP MPs' club insisted that the motion for a resolution be implemented by the Rules of Procedure. As the Foreign Affairs Commission was informed, it was scheduled to hold a session this morning. The Commission's report you received and this resolution has not received support under the Commission's proposal, therefore, has been rejected. I'm opening a debate. A fellow deputy, Raguž, and a colleague, Križanović, answered the words.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20010	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I think it might make it a little easier to discuss what I'm about to say as president of the Foreign Affairs Commission of this house. So, based on what President Špirić said, it was the course and dynamics of entering the resolution procedure submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club on the subject of the BiH institutions' relationship to the mandate of the High Representative. I can only say this, that the Foreign Affairs Commission has on several occasions held a debate, that this resolution has been assessed as one of the main initiators for this public debate that we have had on this subject, including those conclusions that we have adopted here, which we have discussed, and which we will present again on the basis of the debate that we have held at the House and in which the High Representative and other institutions themselves participated, to the House. My opinion is also the opinion that the Commission confirmed once again this morning, that the topic that has been launched by both resolution and demanding and complex, and that it is seeking a response from all key BiH institutions and the Presidency and the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly, is that it is also examined through the action plan for possible steps for BiH and that this resolution has made a strong contribution to formulating such an approach and such a strategy for which we have opted out. However, it only covered one part of these issues and, as a partial document, did not receive support at today's Commission meeting and not before. I mean, I was thinking that in this way and we don't have to make explicit statements about the resolution because in my opinion, she's fully fulfilled her fundamental function and made a strong contribution to the overall debate and conclusions. So here, in terms of clarification, I think, that the resolution had its own role and it was very good quality but that it only included one part of that important matter and that it was much more important to have that approach that we formulated through the conclusions of the House of Representatives. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20011	I would like to thank my colleague Raguž. If I could just help out a little bit. We've really had extensive debates about this, and I'm going to ask the promoter. Perhaps today the debate on the resolution, the statement positive or negative, and after what we had, would not leave a good message. It would be good if the motionor himself said that if it were possible to do so, that the resolution was discussed, that it had achieved an effect that was intended to be achieved by the resolution, rather than to remain for 2-3 hours and that in the end we had a dry statement on the resolution. If it's not possible, then I'm in a position to allow further discussion, but I'm afraid we'll end up at the beginning of what I'm talking about. Word asked for colleague Križanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20012	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not like to complicate this situation here in line with the suggestion that you have made here, but I would like to say that I do, to say the big difference between the resolution as the fulfillment of a particular political will to a particular political problem and event and conclusions that we have had the opportunity to consider as a result of a public debate which, as this resolution has been said, has triggered. Clean and businessly, I think it would be good to finally declare this resolution, especially given that it was addressed to Parliament on 10.3. 6 months ago. I must also say and show my dissatisfaction with the fact that many SDP initiatives are being held back by some strange chemistry in the parliamentary procedure. There's no reason this has been waiting six months for the agenda. As far as the external affairs commission's conclusions are concerned, I could not agree with them for the simple reason why it refers here to the conclusions adopted by this House as a result of a public debate and they relate to some of our internal affairs. However, what we consider to be a resolution is very important that this home, as one of the important authorities in BiH, shows one special, specific seriousness to the future status of the High Representative in BiH. We particularly consider what is said in the first point of the resolution, which is that the Peace Implementation Council in BiH is also called on to hold on partner basis talks with the relevant BiH authorities on defining this status. I think it is good for BiH to adopt this resolution, making it known that BiH is aware of the need for the future mandate of the High Representative in BiH to be defined on a partnership basis, so that we do not come into a position here to discuss what the powers of the High Representative are, whether they are too strong, whether we have the capacity to build something ourselves, etc. Here, that was the purpose and purpose of this resolution. Thank you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20013	I thank my colleagues, Križanović. Who's next to the word? Dr. Kunić, then Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20014	Of course, each of us has a personal view of these very important issues. Each of us carries philosophy in his own pocket. However, it seems to me that the resolution needed to set up some other things. For me, as a lawyer, the question arises whether the powers of the High Representative are as they are practiced. Is he authorized to pass laws? I remind you that last time at a session of Parliament, in the presence of the High Representative, I asked the question, whether the High Representative can make laws, whether this is given to him by the Bonska Declaration, in my opinion, does not give him the right to make laws, because there it is decidently said that every decision he makes, that he is obliged to deliver to the Council of Ministers or the Presidency. It means he can only make decisions from within their jurisdiction and temporarily. And it even speaks when you can change which functioner, if you don't come to meetings, if you interfere with the work of an organ, etc. So I think that the exceeded Bonaan Declaration, in terms of the authority of the High Representative, absolutely went beyond those frameworks and that should have been said in resolution if we were to adopt a resolution. Secondly, I'm asked the question of which of the Implementation Council? The Implementation Council was established at the London Conference. These are committees, the board of directors, as they call it, for implementation, he exists. Who makes this board of directors now? On what basis is he formed? That's legally cloudy for me. I could never come to that knowledge. I tried to come, I didn't come. So all these things had to be cleared up before, so that they could bring a resolution of such or similar content. Secondly, we are in fact calling on this resolution to continue to be a high representative. Are we not grown up to be constantly in continuity now watching profutoro, I don't know how many years, we have a tutor over us. And as long as it is, of course, that here, if this Parliament is already bringing that resolution, it should be limited, absolutely certain. So I don't see, looking from a content aspect, I don't see in this resolution some of the contents that are in some way consistent with the wishes or interests that we want to pursue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20015	Thank you. Here you go, pal Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20016	I thank Mr President-in-Office, fellow Members, I must say that by working on this resolution, the Commission obviously felt that, at least according to what I could see, the resolution was such that it could not be fixed in the Commission to be acceptable. So it's common in the commissions to influence, act on the text of 50 resolutions, so that it is acceptable and that it eventually comes here to us processed in a way that is acceptable to most MPs. I am not entering this, in the motives of this, which is why the Commission felt it was impossible to make this resolution acceptable and that it simply suggested that the way it is, it was rejected. So, I support the conclusion of 2 Commissions, that it is rejected in the text in which we have again obtained it, i.e. in the text in which it was at the beginning. Why, I wouldn't go into this debate, I don't think I should turn into a debate about the powers of the High Representative, because we had a round table, etc. Many times this debate and this would go in a completely different direction. What is totally unacceptable to me is the fact that, in one of these sentences, the High Representative is again called upon in full term to do all that he does. It is said that the BiH Presidency and the Council of Ministers should give their agreement, not only on the appointment of the High Representative but also on a possible change in his mandate. Never, then, will the Council of Ministers and the Presidency have a unique view on the issue of change. I'm not saying now if it's possible for it to make a change and it didn't even give it to him. So it doesn't talk about it, even if possible, it won't agree this way about changing its mandate. For what? I am now going back to the second conclusion, i.e. the first in the Commission's conclusions, where the Commission said it meant a significant contribution to formulating conclusions regarding BiH institutions and the mandate of the High Representative in BiH, so this resolution also gave that, which the Commission has verified and the House of Representatives adopted. In fact, the House of Representatives adopted something that we absolutely disagree with, and that is what we said today, and I would like to say that, in the conclusion of the 4th Commission, when adopted, the next sentence – most of the participants of the public debate supported the position of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe on how it is still early to abolish the powers of the High Representative and how the gradual deterioration of these powers should go parallel to the constitutional reform that is ahead in BiH. So I absolutely disagree that this should be parallel or conditional, these two processes conditioned to each other and in that sense, this conclusion, this conclusion in that part, is not acceptable to me. I believe that the Commission did not have any particular need for this conclusion, number one, and that it was sufficient in reason of conclusion number two to say what it said in conclusion number one. So in an explanation, which is why he doesn't think it's necessary to support and thus formulate the conclusion. I think he'd be more acceptable. So, I guess in the vote, we're going to vote these conclusions now, and that's why I called to say that in part of the first conclusion that says that the House of Representatives has adopted those previous conclusions, I have a reserve,
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20017	Momo, we're not voting for conclusions at all, we're voting for Resolution, whether we accept it or not. The resolution is on the agenda, not conclusions. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20018	Look, by voting for conclusion two, we're actually refusing the resolution. So if we're voting for conclusion 2, we're actually refusing resolution.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20019	The subject of the debate is the Resolution, not the conclusions that we know because it went to the Commission, the Commission gave negatively, and now the Resolution is on the agenda. The Commission has finished its share.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20020	Okay. I accept that. Then I'm staying with that, so this conclusion could have been formulated in the form of an argument first, not as a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20021	Okay. Is there anyone else for, I'm asking you today we've been working long enough not to repeat the same debates we've been having. So I asked my colleague Križanović to simply preserve the values we achieved through the debate because the resolution achieved, at least for me, part of the goal she wanted to open the debate, there was a public hearing, there were notes and conclusions, and so I thought, what could be saved, to be saved. But here you go. Replica co-worker Križanović, further discussion, then Živković, Dr Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20022	Indeed, my intention was not to open a debate that we would have possibly reiterated at best when we discussed the conclusions of the public debate prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. I just want to say one thing here, that OHR is a Dayton provision. We are not asking whether he will be High Representative or not, and when he will leave BiH. But here is the point, I repeat, that we in BiH have recently been with different people to say, with pleasure, here is a public debate and debate at this home, about the relationship between the High Representative in BiH, his powers, etc. Since there is a shift from the High Representative and there is a mood as much as heard and known, and with the BiH Peace Implementation Council's Steering Board on redefine the role and competence of the High Representative, this resolution was intended to call on BiH institutions to discuss the status on a partner basis. Here, that's all we've said in our conclusions. All that stands for, it's all right, we supported it, but I repeat that today there is a big difference between the resolution and the conclusions that we make regarding the debate, with some public debate being conducted. So, please, let's go back to the business definition of Resolution, and we'll see that it's one expression of this home about a political situation. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20023	Thank you. So I ask my colleagues that if possible, we do not expand and repeat the debate. Dr. Živković. I pray the others, if they think they'll contribute to the discussion, not give up, if they don't think they will, it would be best if they give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20024	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to clear these things up for future times and future resolutions that are going on here. In fact, the Foreign Affairs Commission considered this resolution as its item of the agenda. She shouldn't have been making a report that would have been adopted or shot down here right now. She said that as part of the agenda, it was at her session and gave conclusions on that agenda point. At least that's what I think it's supposed to be, not a report on the Commission resolution, but just enough of what we wrote, which is here. And that's why Dom didn't have to. The second thing, here, the agenda point is Resolution. According to our Rules of Procedure for this Resolution and this item of the agenda, each MP has the right to first proposer for 20 minutes, each MP for 10 minutes to talk about it and to make amendments to that resolution. That's what the Rules of Procedure says, because before that, we sent the resolution into the commission phase. When it comes from the commission phase, the resolution is the item of the agenda, it is talked about, amendments are submitted and the resolution is eventually voted on. Given that the amendment is no longer available, that the debate is over to a greater or lesser extent, I propose that the vote on the resolution be voted on and that this part of the work ends with all resolutions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20025	Thank you. Is there anyone else to answer for? Nobody's answering. We're closing the debate. I call on you to prepare, who is it that we are therefore voting on a resolution on the relationship between BiH's institutions to the mandate and the appointment of a new High Representative of the international community? Prepare to vote. Vote now. So for 10, versus 20, 2 abstentions. It has neither the entity nor the general majority. I realise that the resolution on the odos of BiH institutions according to the mandate and the appointment of the new High Representative of the international community is not accepted. We're going to the 16th point of the agenda, that's Ad.16. The agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, 53 b) the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, (e) the Treaty between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, (f) the Treaty between BiH and Serbia-Montenegro on the avoidance of double taxation and prevention of tax obligations in respect of income tax, (g) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the amendment of the Agreement between the Council of BiH, the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Affairs, (h) the Agreement on the Legal Cooperation of Income, (g) the Agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the Change of the Agreement between the Council of BiH, the Federation of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Civil and Criminal Affairs in Civil and Criminal Affairs, h) the Agreement on the Treaty on the Law on Legal Cooperation between the Republic of the Republic of BiH and the Republic and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on Civility of Europe and the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty with the Treaty of Bosnia and the Treaty with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty of Bosnia and the Treaty on the Treaty with the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty between the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty on the Treaty of BiH of BiH of BiH of the Republic of BiH of BiH of BiH of BiH of Croatia and the European with the Republic with the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic ofCroatia. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nobody's answering. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to prepare for the vote, we vote in package a) to j) for these agreements that I have read. Prepare to vote. Vote now. So I find, ladies and gentlemen, that we have unanimously ratified these agreements from a) to j) as you have been given in the agenda and thus concluded the 16th point of the agenda. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda, that's Ad.17. Proposal for the conclusion of Mr Mladen Potočnik's MP in relation to the so-called "Algerian Group" I am opening a debate on the conclusion. Did you get the text of the conclusion on the tables? Did you get the text of the conclusion on the tables. rieč sought Momčilo Novaković, so Mr. Izet Hadžić, please welcome Elmir Jahić, I apologize. Here you go, Jahić. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20026	Since we have worked in the Human Rights Commission for a long time on this problem, I would like to refer to this conclusion and this argument. The Council of Ministers undertakes to contact the U.S. government as soon as possible, so the Council of Ministers has made contact and received an answer. As far as the argument goes, this first attitude stands. The second view, Bosnia is the only European country that has not launched this procedure, is not true. The procedure has been initiated. Secondly, this attitude of the state towards citizens, so... contrary to all conventions, so what do I mean? So, if we had, that the family of one of the members of the Algerian group had addressed our Commission on Human Rights, that we were considering this problem, that Parliament had adopted some conclusions, that we had asked that, therefore, it was a recommendation from the lawyer. As soon as the Council of Ministers sends a memo to the U.S. government, people will be released. Parliament has also confirmed the Commission's conclusions, these conclusions have been reached unanimously and have gone in this direction so that the Council of Ministers can address them, ask for their release unless any proceedings are conducted, etc. Parliament confirmed this, the Council of Ministers sent a letter and received a negative response from the US government. Normally, in our report, we found that when these people were arrested, it was the House of Human Rights, on several occasions, confirmed that human rights were roughly violated by those people who were deported, illegally, that their citizenship was illegally taken away and that they were there, that they were placed there in these inhumane salts. Also, here's a game of chance I'm a member of our delegation to the Council of Europe, so this is just one little, little thing to say, a thousand segments of conclusions that were. So they have much stronger conclusions that the Parliamentary and Council of Europe in this segment and one team of the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Europe has been tasked with visiting both these prisoners and visiting congressmen in the United States in order to make this bypass, in order to point out these things once more. So that's what this is about, I mean, so the Council of Ministers has discussed the same thing twice, and I know, since I'm interested in this case, because we have constant problems and not to say every third and fourth session of our commission, we have re-recorded memos from the Algerian group. So, the Council of Ministers sent a letter and it was received, so it was known to the public, and we presented it, so we received a letter from the Secretary of State, where it is said that these people, that they remain there, so that answer also has several questions, but therefore it is not true that the Council of Ministers did not send a letter. So it did and requested their extradition. Indeed, it was not launched there, that human rights were harshly violated, so above all, we are, therefore, the House of Human Rights said that the authorities in BiH and the Federation authorities in the most difficult way violated human rights when they were deported. And also, their detention is not in line with the Convention on Human Rights but, therefore,... that this state has this Parliament, and the Council of Ministers reacted several times but unfortunately, there is no adequate response. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20027	Thank you. Comrade Novakovć, do you want to talk? 55
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20028	Well, I wanted to ask some questions that I got some answers to. So I got the answer that the Council of Ministers came into contact, which practically makes no sense. So he loses all meaning, I suggest that Mr. Potočnik change this conclusion to this conclusion. It undertakes the Council of Ministers to act on a scale with the US Government's position as soon as possible and to resolve the case so-called. "Algerian groups". I think it's more appropriate than the one suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20029	Thank you. Who's on the phone for the word? Here you go, colleague Bešlagić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20030	Look, I am in agreement with these findings that we are both the Commission and the Council of Ministers and all done, but here is another aspect that seems to me to be respected and made such a conclusion. That the Council of Europe has brought resolution and that it is called upon to try again, here with that argument, to ask these people to return. In that sense, we need to formulate this conclusion and simply give another, let's say, impulse to the Council of Ministers but calling for the Council of Europe's position. Nothing more. Nothing needs to be dropped that can help people. Well, if someone had said birds on the branch, let's take that bird on the branch, and let's try to do it. It is simply necessary to do and take what the Council of Europe is, if that is their partner, so be the Council of Europe. So there are no critical tones, but simply to try that element because I say the Commission has indeed done, this Parliament has reached conclusions but, well, now the Council of Europe has joined us, so that's for us plus.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20031	Thank you. Miloš Jovanović asked for a word, did he? And Ljilja Milićević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20032	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You see, uh, things have changed around here, and this argument doesn't stand. And here's the other way around. As far as I know, it stands. Look, this resolution that Mr. Potočnik is invited to explain, it's about the Human Rights Report in Guantanamo. All countries, so the governments of the member states of the Council of Europe received a questionnaire from the people who prepared the report for the Parliamentary Assembly. We personally received members of the delegation when Minister Kovač, so we filled out what BiH did, you had questions that, no, when, who went, that. The report found that BiH did what it did, visited, believe Mr. Potočnik, I think now, a long time ago, one of the 6-7 countries that did it is the only one there. And here we are, colleagues, so they don't give me lies, which is what our world says. So, there's also an indication of what we did and said and suggested it means, a subcommittee was formed outside the Paramentary Assembly, I think Kevin M. is... at the head of what Mr. Jahić said. 56 So nothing in this argument stands. Delete the explanation and the rest we can talk about. Well, this is exactly how it was for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20033	Thank you. So, this explanation would be a pint of a bear. tiho Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20034	Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, after we received Mr Jahić's explanation, the chairman of the Commission for Human Rights, and I am a member myself, and I was actively involved when it comes to the so-called "Algeric group" and also in the Council of Europe, what Mrs. Milićević said, and Mr. Jahić, in fact, I think they give a new picture in terms of Mr. Potočnik's conclusion, where the explanation is now, in some ways, deviating from this information that is indeed what they really are. So, I'd like to join this conclusion that you've formulated, that he's quite enough and that you simply withdraw the argument that applies to it. But I have understood this initiative as one in a series of initiatives where many institutions have dealt with this issue and all have positively defined themselves, said that this issue should be resolved. The BiH Council of Ministers also launched the initiative and, again, based on our conclusions that we proposed it would be necessary to do so. I believe that you, Mr. Potočnik, have asked this question because it is necessary to protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of every BiH citizen. And that's why we're obliged, that's why we swore, and that's how I understand and support your initiative. And that way I think we could end this agenda point with this conclusion. In this direction Mr. Novaković also spoke, and simply asked the Council of Ministers to, in that communication, it is already communication, they have addressed, they are in the process, simply by this conclusion, only by making additional commitments to continue this communication and to inform Parliament about what they have done in the meantime, because without the difference in which the world is concerned, if she has arrested someone and if she has not proved that he is guilty within a few years. I think it's a universal principle, a human principle that we need to respect and people without the difference that it's about, they have to understand that they have system institutions behind them that care about their citizens. And in that direction, I don't think there's any dispute, that we can support your Mr. Potočnik's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20035	Thank you. We'll give another word to the Potočnik as a pedestal. I ask you further to avoid debates and replicas. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20036	I thank my colleagues' suggestions. I recall the argument, but I suggest that this Parliament be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2005-09-16-0.u20037	I thank my fellow Potočnik. There are no more applications for discussion. Prepare to vote on Mr. Potočnik's conclusion. Stand by. Vote now. For 21.5 versus, 6 abstentions. It has a total majority, entity majority. I find this conclusion without reason has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's session. Just two explanations, please. Sit down a little while longer, hello fellow sit down, we have two notices. First, to prepare for 28th, we are planning a new session of the House of Representatives. We expect today the Law on Defence in Parliament's procedure. So please adjust the time for the 28th and all that's the pre-session, there'll be points for the 28th. You'll get the materials in time. I wish you successful preparation. And secondly, I've been asking you to sit down for two days now, our fellow Member Dr. Nakaš is not coming to the meeting. I had a chance to visit him. It would be good for this parliament to appoint a three-member delegation to visit our colleague. I think it's also human, and I regret that we didn't do it on behalf of the club here. I suggest Dr. Živković if there is time when his colleagues agree. Give me two more men, Sead Palavrić, a fellow Potočnik. Here, I mean, me, Vlatko Komšić. I think it makes sense for you to say hello, to encourage him a little bit. Here, she's home, I think she's home. Let him get in touch, I think it's human from Parliament to visit our colleague because he's come from surgery, he's postoperatively recovering, but it's more expensive for you to know that you've been sharing your destiny with your colleagues for three years, and you've been sitting in charge for three years. Thank you very much. So we've set up a commission. I'll see you 28. Sit down and finish work at 3:00.
